source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2f63e3fad31fdcd1e2b179803e50cba85a2b6a8d8c6c1b246ed7245768b0921d
pages: 1252
ocr_pages: 50
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
December 1, 2022
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
 Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 1, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 826 2969 8344      Passcode: 486016
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
1.
222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) – New Five-Story Retail/Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-
071)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning
Application (SDPA) for construction of a new five-story mixed-use building consisting of 10 below market rate
(BMR) residential units, 17,658 square feet of retail use for a grocery store, and 104,554 square feet of office use
at 222 E. 4th Avenue; to approve an Affordable Housing Plan; and to adopt an Addendum to the 2010 General
Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and 2009 Downtown Area Specific Plan Initial Study/Mitigated Negative
Declaration (IS/MND) under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), based on the Findings for Approval
and as conditioned.
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
1 of 1252

--- page 2 ---
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 1252

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-3111
File ID: 22-6886
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 1, 2022 
SUBJECT:
222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) – New Five-Story Retail/Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-071) 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) for construction of a new five-story mixed-use building consisting of 10 below market rate (BMR) residential units, 
17,658 square feet of retail use for a grocery store, and 104,554 square feet of office use at 222 E. 4th Avenue; to approve 
an Affordable Housing Plan; and to adopt an Addendum to the 2010 General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and 
2009 Downtown Area Specific Plan Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) under the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned.
BACKGROUND:
On November 15, 2021, Lane Partners, the applicant, submitted a formal Planning Application to demolish the existing 
60,965 square-foot commercial structure on the block bounded by E. 4th Avenue, S. B Street, E. 5th Avenue, and S. 
Ellsworth Avenue, to construct a new five-story mixed-use building consisting of 10 low-income studio and one-bedroom 
residential rental units, 17,658 square feet of retail use for a grocery store, and 104,554 square feet of office use with two 
levels of underground parking. In accordance with Municipal Code Sections 27.06.050(d) and 27.06.060, this project is 
subject to City Council approval because the building height exceeds 55 feet.
The Planning Commission reviewed the preliminary application for this project at a study session on September 14, 2021. 
The items discussed at this study session were focused on the project’s preliminary building design, adding residential 
units with multiple bedrooms, and the on-street truck loading zone. During the formal application process, the applicant 
made some minor alterations to the building design and eliminated the Class IV physically-separated bike lane along South 
B Street, in response to a City Council resolution adopted on July 18, 2022 regarding modifications to the City’s Bicycle 
Master Plan. The Class III bike route on B Street will be retained, in conjunction with the proposed on-street truck loading 
zone along the project’s frontage. The final design and associated planning application were heard by the Planning 
Commission on November 17, 2022, and the Commission recommended City Council approval by a vote of 3-2, including a 
recommendation for the project to include 10 parking spaces for the residential units. The Planning Commission packet 
can be accessed at this link. 
Site Description
The project site consists of four parcels totaling approximately 1.135 acres or 48,478 square-feet. The project site is 
bounded by East 4th Avenue to the north, South B Street to the east, East 5th Avenue to the south, and South Ellsworth 
Avenue to the west. The project site is designated as Downtown Retail Core in the General Plan Land Use Plan and is zoned 
CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Mixed-Use Overlay). The project site is also located within the Required Retail 
Frontage Zone as defined in the Downtown Area Plan. The northern half of the project site is located within the Central 
Parking Improvement District (CPID) Limited Parking Zone (LPZ) subject to SMMC Section 27.64.100.
3 of 1252

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
A two-story grocery store with both at-grade and below-grade parking currently occupies the site. Commercial uses, 
including restaurants and retail stores, are located to the north, east, and west, in single- and two-story structures. A 145-
unit residential building of six stories tall is located to the south. The San Mateo Downtown Caltrain Station is located 
approximately one-quarter of a mile north of the project site. A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included 
as Attachment 2.
Project Description
The proposed project is a five-story, mixed-use building with a total floor area of 152,533 square-feet and total building 
height of 74 feet, 3 inches to the top of the 5th floor roof plate. The building consists of 17,658 square feet of retail on the 
ground floor, and 104,554 square-feet of office located primarily on the second through fourth floors. The project also 
includes 8,997 square feet of residential space on the fifth floor, which includes eight one-bedroom and two studio 
apartment units. The applicant proposes to designate all 10 units as affordable at the low-income level. Since 100% of the 
units are affordable, the project is eligible for a building height increase of up to three additional stories or 33 feet under 
Assembly Bill 1763, as well as four incentives and unlimited waivers from development standards. The applicant is 
requesting a total of six incentive and waiver requests, which are discussed further in the Affordable Housing section 
below.
The project includes a three-level parking garage with ground floor and two levels of below-grade parking for a total of 221 
spaces. 184 spaces would be for office use, and 37 spaces would be for retail use. The project did not originally propose 
any residential parking spaces; however, the applicant is now proposing to provide a limited number of such spaces. A 
discussion on residential parking is described further below in the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee section. In 
addition, a shared parking agreement with the City of San Mateo would allow the general public to use some parking 
spaces during weekday evenings and weekends, as conditioned and agreed to by the applicant. 
A two-way driveway access to the parking garage is proposed along E. 5th Avenue. The pedestrian entrance to the grocery 
store, office, and residences are located respectively along E. 4th Avenue, S. Ellsworth Avenue, and S. B Street. The project 
also proposes outdoor terraces for office use and a roof deck for the residential units. A 1,450 square foot outdoor dining 
space and a 2,070 square foot community open space is proposed at the corner of Ellsworth Avenue and East 4th Avenue 
at the pedestrian level.
The building design incorporates traditional building elements such as brick siding, recessed windows, and fabric awnings. 
The building also includes building design and materials typically associated with contemporary style such as strong 
angular forms, wood and metal window systems; metal or glass canopies; glass guardrails; as well as vegetated living or 
aluminum paneled walls. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, and elevations are included in 
Attachment 3. 
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Plan designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core. A list of applicable General Plan 
policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance is included in the resolution (Attachment 1). The project is 
consistent with applicable General Plan policies, specifically because the project proposes a mix of commercial retail and 
office uses with residential uses in an area well served by public transit, furthering the General Plan intent for the 
downtown as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City.
Consistent with its land use designation, the project site is zoned CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Mixed-Use 
Overlay), which permits both residential and commercial uses. The CBD/R zone is subject to development standards in 
Municipal Code Chapter 27.29 and 27.38, including floor area ratio (FAR) limit of 3.0, residential density of 50 dwelling 
units per acre, setbacks, and open space requirements for both office and residential uses. The project’s maximum height 
limit is 55 feet to 75 feet, based on provisions of community contributions and outstanding building design. The project 
requests several waivers, including from height, FAR, and loading zone requirements as discussed below under the 
4 of 1252

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
“Affordable Housing’ section. A project data table listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the project’s 
conformance to them is included in Attachment 4.
A total of 221 off-street parking spaces are proposed for office and retail use. The parking demand study (Attachment 5) 
determined that 208 parking spaces would be necessary. The study did not include parking needs for the residential use 
since residential parking is not required for this project under State Density Bonus Law. 
Downtown Area Plan 
The project is subject to the Downtown Area Plan, which establishes goals and policies to implement the overall vision of 
the downtown. The site is specifically located within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area in the Downtown Area Plan. 
Applicable goals that pertain to the project include:
•
Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place
•
Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses
•
Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown
In conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, the project provides retail, residences, and offices at a high intensity that 
would support existing commercial uses in the downtown, thus creating and maintaining downtown’s unique sense of 
place with a good mix and diversity of uses. The project enhances the downtown pedestrian environment, safety, and 
attractiveness by proposing new street trees, streetlights, and sidewalk paving that is compatible with development in the 
same vicinity. A full list of applicable Downtown Area Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance is 
included in Attachment 1. 
Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines
The project is located within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area and therefore is subject to the downtown design 
guidelines. The project is consistent with multiple downtown design guidelines by incorporating large retail display 
windows to provide visual interest to pedestrians, awnings above retail storefronts, and recessed entryways as suggested 
by the guidelines. Outdoor seating is provided through a 3,520 square foot outdoor plaza at the corner of Ellsworth 
Avenue and E. 4th Avenue to invite pedestrian activity. In addition, street trees are provided along all four building 
frontages, which would improve the outdoor pedestrian experience.
Site Plan and Architectural Review
The new mixed-use building requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for the proposed site 
improvements and building design in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.08.030. To grant the SPAR, the City 
Council must make certain findings, which are discussed in detail within the resolution (Attachment 1). To summarize, the 
building complements the existing architectural character of the neighborhood in its use of materials, colors, and building 
form, and the proposed uses are compatible with the surrounding restaurants and stores. Therefore, the project meets the 
SPAR findings, which require the project to be in scale and harmonious with the character of the neighborhood, the 
development to not be detrimental to the growth of the city, the development to not impair the desirability of investment 
or occupation in the vicinity, the development to meet all applicable standards, and the development to not adversely 
affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, and security.
Site Development Planning Application
The project requires a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) approval for removal of major vegetation in 
conjunction with the development of a parcel, in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.40. The project proposes the 
removal of 39 trees, of which 38 qualify as protected trees. The project proposes planting of 37 new trees, including 33 
street trees along all four frontages and will pay an in-lieu fee toward the City’s Tree Planting Fund as necessary. Thus, as 
conditioned, the SDPA findings for approval, discussed in greater detail within Attachment 1, can be made.
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
Appendix A of the Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan provides guidelines for sidewalk designs and types specific to a 
project’s land use and street parking configuration. Along the project’s E. 4th Avenue and E. 5th Avenue frontages, the 
5 of 1252

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
project provides an overall sidewalk width of 16 feet, which is in conformance with the Pedestrian Master Plan. The 
project does not meet the overall sidewalk widths for its S. Ellsworth Avenue frontage as it proposes overall sidewalk 
widths of up to 15’-6”, which is short by six inches. For the S. B Street frontage, although the project proposes an overall 
sidewalk width of 16’-0”, it does not meet the sidewalk width guideline as it proposes a smaller Planting Zone and Through 
Zone due to the proposed loading zone ramp. The applicant has requested these reductions in sidewalk width as a density 
bonus waiver (Attachment 6), although a waiver is not necessary for these guidelines. 
Bicycle Master Plan
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use. The Bicycle Master Plan also lays out a proposed bicycle network of various bike lanes, paths and 
routes. Along the project’s E. 5th Avenue frontage, the Bicycle Master Plan proposes a buffered bicycle lane (Class II) along 
5th Avenue, with which the project plans are consistent. The applicant now proposes to retain the Class III bicycle lane 
along their B Street frontage consistent with recent City Council action to eliminate Class IV Bike Path requirements on B 
Street. 
Lastly, in conformance with the Municipal Code Section 27.64.262, the project exceeds the minimum number of long-term 
bicycle parking spaces required (22 spaces provided, and 21 spaces required) and exceeds the minimum number of short-
term bicycle parking (20 spaces provided, and 15 spaces required), and has been conditioned to conform to all bike parking 
requirements.
Affordable Housing
State Density Bonus Law
California Government Code 65915 outlines density bonus standards for residential and mixed-use projects that include 
certain percentages of below market rate (BMR) housing units. The applicant proposes to designate all 10 of the 
residential units (100%) as BMR, with affordability at the Low-Income level (80% Area Median Income). For reference, the 
2022 Area Median Income (AMI) in San Mateo County for an individual is $116,200 and a family of four is $166,000.
Concession and Waiver Requests
State Density Bonus Law permits the applicant to request up to four concessions for projects with 100% affordable units as 
well as an unlimited number of waivers from development standards. The applicant’s density bonus request letter 
detailing the project’s concession and waiver requests is included as Attachment 6. As listed in the density bonus letter, 
the applicant is requesting a total of six waivers, although only five are applicable as the waiver from the Pedestrian 
Master Plan is not necessary:
1.
Exceed the maximum bulk standards from 150’ to 197’-6” for lineal building dimension and from 170’ to 256’-7” 
for diagonal dimension.
2.
Increase the distance for the street wall build-to-line standards from the 0’ setback requirement (to build up to the 
property line) to a 4’-6” setback instead. 
3.
Increase the build-to-line exception from 25% to 30% along the Ellsworth Avenue frontage.
4.
Increase the maximum floor area ratio (FAR) from 3.0 to 3.1.
5.
Not provide the required off-street loading spaces on the private property. 
State Density Bonus Law provides that waivers are reductions from standards that would otherwise physically preclude the 
construction of the development at the proposed density. The City shall grant the waiver requests unless findings can be 
made that granting of the waivers would have an adverse impact on any historical resource or would be contrary to state 
or federal law or would have a specific unmitigable adverse impact on public health or safety. Staff has evaluated the 
waiver requests and has not found any evidence to support any of these findings. In addition to the waiver requests, the 
applicant has made one concession request:
1.
Reduce the required retail frontage from 75% to 47% along S. B Street and along S. Ellsworth Avenue.
In accordance with Government Code Section 65915(d)(1), the City shall grant incentive requests unless findings can be 
6 of 1252

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
made that the incentive 1) would not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide the affordable housing 
units, 2) would have a specific adverse impact upon public health and safety, or 3) would be contrary to state or federal 
law. Staff has evaluated the incentive request and has not found any evidence to support any of these findings to deny the 
concession request. As discussed in the applicant’s density bonus request letter, the partial relief from the retail frontage 
requirements would result in approximately $3.5 million in cost savings that would help offset the cost of constructing the 
10 BMR units.
Other Housing Laws
The project is in compliance with the City’s Inclusionary Housing Requirement because the project is below the 11-unit 
threshold for the 15% inclusionary requirement and is designating 100% of the proposed 10 residential units as BMR. This 
project is not subject to the Housing Accountability Act (HAA) because less than two-thirds of the mixed-use building’s 
floor area is for residential uses.
Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee and Residential Parking
To mitigate the impacts of increased affordable housing demand associated with new commercial retail and office 
development, and to meet the City’s affordable housing goals, the project is required to comply with SMMC Chapter 
23.61, which requires the payment of a commercial linkage fee. In-lieu of paying the linkage fee, the project is proposing to 
construct 10 new BMR residential units, affordable at the Low-Income level, as part of the project as outlined in the 
applicant’s Affordable Housing Plan (Attachment 7). This proposal would meet the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage 
Fee requirements per SMMC Section 23.61.050, which provides alternatives to paying the fees, subject to certain findings 
discussed in detail in Attachment 1, and associated conditions of approval. The conditions of approval include entering into 
a BMR Agreement with the City to ensure the units meet the City’s BMR requirements and have adequate access to all 
amenities, such as residential open space and parking. 
Resolution No. 84 (2016), adopted by the City Council on January 5, 2015, requires eight BMR units per 100,000 net new 
square feet of office and one unit per 100,000 net new square feet of retail development. A total of eight Low-Income 
units are required for this project, which the project is exceeding with the 10 proposed BMR units. 
The project did not originally propose any residential parking spaces. However, the residential units are proposed to meet 
the commercial linkage fee requirements and would require an Affordable Housing Agreement. Per Resolution No. 14 
(2020) regarding the City’s BMR Housing Program, BMR units shall be provided with access to all on-site amenities. Staff 
has interpreted this requirement to mean the residential units should also have equitable access to parking on-site, similar 
to the commercial users. The applicant proposed six residential spaces in order to provide equitable access to the parking. 
At the November 17, 2022 public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended 10 spaces for the residential units, one 
for each unit, and a draft condition is proposed to dedicate 10 residential parking spaces. The draft conditions of approval 
(No. 35 and 54) allow for flexibility in the number of residential spaces and security closure requirements, the latter of 
which will be determined later during the building permit stage.
Design Review
The City’s design review consultant, Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group, completed a design review of an initial 
submittal of the proposed design. Larry Cannon’s design review letter is included as Attachment 9. In response to the 
letter, the applicant had modified the building design, including changing the material above the office and residential 
entrances to ensure they are more prominent and modifying the awning materials to the current proposal. 
Transportation Analysis
Vehicle Miles Traveled Impact Analysis
The City’s transportation consultant, Kittelson & Associates, prepared a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA), included as 
Attachment 10, Appendix L, to analyze the project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the City’s General Plan. Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) is the metric 
established by CEQA for determining the significance of transportation impacts.
Based on the City’s adopted TIA guidelines, the TIA concludes that the project will not cause a significant VMT impact as it 
7 of 1252

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
meets screening criteria to exempt from the project from further VMT analysis. Specifically, the project is within a one-half 
mile of a high-quality transit area, and is located within a low VMT area, which is presumed to have a less than significant 
VMT impact.
Level of Service Impact Analysis
In addition to analyzing the project’s VMT impact, Kittelson & Associates conducted a Level of Service (LOS) analysis at 
various study-intersections. In accordance with the City’s General Plan criteria, the City shall maintain a LOS no worse than 
mid LOS D at all signalized intersections within the City, and no worse than LOS E for all unsignalized intersections. The TIA 
estimates that the project would generate a total of 169 vehicle trips during the weekday AM peak hour, which is 135 
fewer vehicle trips compared to the existing use. The project is estimated to generate a total of 201 vehicle trips during the 
weekday PM peak hour, which is 231 fewer vehicle trips compared to the existing use. The project would also generate a 
total of 2,904 weekday daily trips, which is 3,645 fewer weekday daily trips compared to the existing use. The TIA 
concluded that the project would not result in any adverse LOS effects. 
Transportation Demand Management Plan
The project will implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan, prepared by the City’s TDM consultant, 
Steer, to formalize trip reduction strategies with the Downtown Area Plan and Sustainable Streets Plan goal of further 
reducing overall single-occupancy vehicle trips. 
The core TDM measures that the applicant proposes to integrate into the project include design measures related to the 
physical attributes of the site as well as programmatic measures to encourage the use of sustainable forms of 
transportation. These measures include transit passes for employees and monthly subsidies for residents, an on-site TDM 
Coordinator, informational packets for new hires and new residents, multimodal wayfinding signage, and TDM 
communications such as websites, bulletin boards, and social media to promote sustainable travel options. The TDM Plan 
is included as Attachment 10, Appendix M. Overall, Steer estimates that implementation of all core measures would 
reduce trips by an additional 8.78 – 27.42%. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Approximately 31 public comments were submitted to staff during the formal planning application review and are 
included in Attachment 11. 
Many comments supported maintaining a full-service grocery store and expressed concerns regarding the proposed 
reduction in retail square footage. The proposed roughly 17,000 square feet of retail space is considered adequate to 
function as a full-service grocery store based on other similarly sized uses such as the Draeger’s in Los Altos and the Trader 
Joe’s in San Mateo. 
There were mixed reactions regarding the building design from members of the public. While the revised design does not 
incorporate all the suggestions in Larry Cannon’s design letter, several significant modifications have been made, such as 
expanding the materials along the office and residential lobbies from one-story to two to strengthen its appearance. The 
building is not located within the City’s historic downtown district, and therefore the downtown historic design guidelines 
do not apply. The building incorporates a combination of traditional elements such as brick siding as well as contemporary 
elements such as metal or glass canopies, glass railings, and living walls. The Planning Commission discussed the design at 
the November 17th public hearing and recommended approval.
There were also comments regarding environmental review that are addressed in the CEQA section below.
Public comments after publication of this report will be forwarded to the City Council for review and consideration at the 
public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public 
Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
On May 1, 2009, the San Mateo City Council adopted the Downtown Area Specific Plan (DASP) and its associated Initial 
8 of 1252

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND). On October 18, 2010, the City of San Mateo certified the General Plan 
Environmental Impact Report (EIR). The EIR analyzed the General Plan’s framework for all zoning and land use decisions 
within the City through 2030, including the estimation of 48,360 residential units and 30.7 million square feet of non-
residential development. As a result, in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act, an Addendum to the EIR 
and IS/MND has been prepared, and is intended to provide project-level, site-specific environmental clearance for the 
proposed mixed-use project at 222 E. 4th Avenue. The addendum demonstrated that the proposed project would not 
result in any significant impacts not already considered under the previously certified 2030 General Plan EIR and DASP 
IS/MND, nor would there be a substantial increase in the severity of the significant impacts previously disclosed. No new 
impacts or new mitigation measures necessitating a Supplemental EIR were found. Furthermore, the implementation of 
appropriate mitigation measures for air quality, biological resources, cultural resources, and noise already included in the 
EIR and project conditions of approval relating to acoustics, parks, and hazardous materials would reduce all potential 
impacts to a less than significant level. The addendum is included in Attachment 10. The project’s Mitigation Monitoring 
and Reporting Program (MMRP) is included as Exhibit B in Attachment 1, which is in place to ensure compliance with the 
Mitigation Measures analyzed and required by the addendum.
Once the addendum was published, comments regarding environmental impacts were received, which were focused on air 
quality, traffic, and noise and are addressed below. 
Air Quality: Concerns regarding air quality impacts focused on how toxic air contaminants (TACs) from neighboring projects 
would add to the cumulative health risks disclosed in the addendum. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
(BAAQMD) recommends considering stationary and mobile sources within 1,000 feet of the project site. Three 
development projects, either approved or under construction, are located within this range. However, all three of these 
cumulative projects have completed their own site-specific CEQA review, which demonstrated that each would result in a 
less-than-significant TAC emissions through their use of construction equipment. Given that each project would have 
varying construction schedules and each project would be implementing TAC control measures, the cumulative impact 
resulting from combined construction emissions would be less than significant.
Traffic: Public comments focused on concerns regarding cumulative traffic impacts as well as safety concerns due to truck 
trips on 5th Avenue.  Anticipated cumulative conditions for the study intersections for the year 2040 and the effect the 
addition of the project trips would have on them are analyzed on page 28 of the TIA, included as Appendix L of Attachment 
10. 
Noise: The public comments were concerned regarding construction and cumulative noise impacts. The project will be 
incorporating building design and construction measures to ensure compliance with the City’s noise standards. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this City Council meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List”, which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Conditions of Approval
Exhibit B – Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data Sheet
9 of 1252

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 5 – Parking Demand Study
Att 6 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 7 –  Affordable Housing Plan
Att 8 – Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – September 14, 2021 and November 17, 2022 
Att 9 – Design Review Report
Att 10 – CEQA – Addendum
Appendix A – Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval
Appendix B – Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment
Appendix C – Tree Inventory, Assessment, and Protection Report
Appendix D – Geotechnical Investigation
Appendix E – Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment
Appendix F – Climate Action Plan Consistency Checklist
Appendix G – Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
Appendix H – Pre-construction Site Investigation Report
Appendix I – Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report Conclusions and Responses 
Appendix J – Environmental Document Review Letter
Appendix K – Noise and Vibration Assessment
Appendix L – Transportation Impact Analysis
Appendix M – Transportation Demand Management Plan
Att 11 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219
10 of 1252

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATION FOR A PROPERTY LOCATED AT 222 E. 4TH AVENUE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A FIVE-STORY MIXED-
USE BUILDING CONSISTING OF 10 RESIDENTIAL UNITS, 17,658 SQUARE-FEET OF RETAIL USE, AND 104,554 
SQUARE-FEET OF OFFICE USES; APPROVING AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN; AND ADOPTING AN 
ADDENDUM TO THE GENERAL PLAN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (EIR) PREVIOUSLY CERTIFIED BY THE 
CITY COUNCIL AND DOWNTOWN AREA SPECIFIC PLAN INITIAL STUDY/MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION 
(IS/MND) PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL. 
(PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE. MIXED-USE PROJECT) 
 
WHEREAS, Lane SM LLC (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted planning application PA-2021-
071 with the Planning Division for a property located at 222 E. 4th Avenue in the City of San Mateo (“City”) for a 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for construction of a five-story mixed-use building consisting of 10 
residential units, 17,658 square-feet of retail uses, and 104,554 square-feet of office uses, and a Site Development 
Planning Application (SDPA) for the removal of substantial vegetation (collectively referred to as the “Project”); 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is designated as Downtown Retail Core in the General Plan Land Use Plan, 
zoned CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Mixed-use Overlay), located within the Downtown Area Plan 
study area, and predominantly located within the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID) Limited Parking 
Zone (LPZ); and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.050 requires the City Council to 
take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for buildings exceeding 55 feet in height; and 
 
WHEREAS, the applicant is proposing 122,212 square feet of commercial space and is required to comply 
with Municipal Code Section 23.61.030 to mitigate the impacts of its project on the need for affordable housing 
and pay an Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee, or provide an alternative method of compliance through 
Municipal Code Section 23.61.050; and  
 
WHEREAS, the applicant is proposing ten (10) residential units at the low-income level in lieu of paying 
the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee, in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61.050 and per 
the requirement to develop eight low-income units per 100,000 square feet of office development and one low-
income unit per 100,000 square feet of retail development, as adopted by City Council through Resolution 84 
(2016) on August 15, 2016; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the City has prepared an Addendum to the General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR), 
which was previously certified by the City Council on October 18, 2010, and the Downtown Area Specific Plan 
Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) which was previously adopted by the City Council on May 
1, 2009; and,  
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies; 
11 of 1252

--- page 12 ---
WHEREAS, the Conditions of Approval are attached as Exhibit A, the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program (MMRP) is attached as Exhibit B, and the Affordable Housing Plan is attached as Attachment 7 of the 
Agenda Report; and 
 
WHEREAS, on November 17, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended that 
the City Council approve the Project; and, 
 
WHEREAS, on December 1, 2022, the City Council held a public hearing and considered the Project.   
 
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS 
FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The City Council finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no substantial evidence 
that the project will have a significant effect on the environment under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) and the EIR Addendum reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and 
analysis.  
 
2. The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding upon 
which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City Hall, 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California.  
 
3. The Addendum to the EIR and IS/MND, and the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program, are 
recommended for adoption.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS 
FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use, Circulation, Urban Design, Housing, 
Conservation and Open Space, and Noise Elements of the City’s General Plan.  
 
a. The Project conforms to Policy LU 1.8 of the Land Use Element, which encourages allowance 
of mixed-use developments that include multi-family dwellings in non-residential land use 
categories. The Project combines retail, office uses, and multi-family residential uses which 
also complement the existing commercial uses in the vicinity and in the adjacent downtown 
core. In conformance with Policies LU 2.4 and 3.1, the Project proposes these uses at high 
intensities and densities that enhance the downtown area as the social, cultural, and 
economic center of the City. 
b. In conformance with Policies C2.5 and C2.10 of the Circulation Element, a Transportation 
Impact Analysis and Transportation Demand Management Plan have been prepared for the 
Project. The Transportation Impact Analysis concludes that the Project will not result in a 
significant impact caused by increased Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT). The Applicant will also 
implement a Transportation Demand Management Plan that includes specific trip-reduction 
measures for the life of the Project.  
12 of 1252

--- page 13 ---
c. The Project conforms to Policy UD2.3 in the Urban Design Element in that the materials 
complement the style of the Project and incorporate common materials of the area, including 
brick, metal, and concrete. 
d. The Project conforms to Policies H2.4, H2.6, and H2.12 of the Housing Element in that the 
Project includes 10 below-market rate rental housing units in a commercial neighborhood. 
e. Policy C/OS 6.6 of the Conservation and Open Space Element requires that new developments 
provide street trees, which this Project conforms to in that a total of 33 new street trees are 
proposed. 
f. The Project conforms to Policies N1.1 and N1.2 of the Noise Element in that an acoustical 
analysis will be required for the Project at the building permit stage of the process ensuring 
that interior noise levels will not exceed noise limits. In addition, the Project shall conform to 
Policy N2.1 in that noise measures and monitoring during construction have been included as 
conditions of approval. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the City’s Downtown Area Plan.  
 
a. While the Project does not meet the minimum required retail frontage requirements via the 
State Density Bonus Law, the Project integrates a significant amount of retail on the ground 
floor and includes retail frontages in substantial conformance to Policies II.1 and II.2 which 
encourages preserving the downtown core shopping area and supports retail frontages to 
enhance the pedestrian scale and allow for a compact walking environment. 
b. The Project conforms to Policies II.5, II.6, II.8, and II.10 in that the Project integrates retail, 
office, and residential uses in the CBD/R zoning district that complements the downtown CBD 
zone. 
c. The Project conforms to Policy II.9 in that the Project provides 10 residential units that will 
support downtown businesses and are located in close proximity to the transit station to help 
reduce vehicle trips and vehicle ownership. 
d. While the Project exceeds the maximum bulk and building height provisions of the Zoning 
Code via State Density Bonus Law, the Project integrates building stepbacks and open spaces 
on several upper floors in substantial conformance with Policy III.3. 
e. A Parking Demand Study has been prepared for the project, which conforms to Policy V.8 in 
that the Project, which is within one-half mile of the Downtown Transit Center, includes a 
reduced parking ratio for office uses. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, DOES HEREBY 
APPROVE THE 222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT, PA-2021-071 AT 222 E. 4TH AVENUE BASED UPON THE 
FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL, THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS 
RESOLUTION, AND THE MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT B TO THIS 
RESOLUTION: 
 
1. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application for 
construction of a multi-family residential building and associated Conditions of Approval are approved 
based on the following findings: 
 
13 of 1252

--- page 14 ---
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood in that: 
i. The Project employs a high-quality building design with strong angular forms and 
materials including brick, metal, glass, wood, and vegetated living or aluminum paneled 
walls that enhance the existing architectural character of the surrounding area; 
ii. The Project provides a cohesive transition between the downtown to the north, east, and 
west which consist of commercial uses including restaurants and stores, as well as to the 
existing multi-family residences to the south; 
iii. The pedestrian improvements including the street trees along all four building frontages, 
outdoor plaza, and sidewalks ranging from 15 feet 6 inches up to 16 feet wide create a 
walkable and inviting pedestrian realm that substantially conform with the City’s 
guidelines relating to sidewalks; and, 
iv. The Project incorporates new landscaping throughout the project’s open space areas to 
further enhance the pedestrian realm. 
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that: 
i. The Project provides retail, office, and residential uses at intensities that would 
complement existing commercial uses in the vicinity and in the downtown core; 
ii. The Project is consistent with the General Plan and Zoning Code excepting standards 
modified via State Density Bonus Law; 
iii. The Project is in substantial conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, Bicycle Master 
Plan, and Pedestrian Master Plan. 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The Project consists of a new mixed-use building with office uses at a high intensity and 
retail and residential uses in an area well-served by public transit; 
ii. The Project provides new, well-designed housing units, particularly rental housing that 
provides opportunities for those unable to manage the expense of ownership housing; 
and 
iii. The Project optimizes the project vicinity’s development potential for commercial uses 
furthering the downtown as the economic center of the City. 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City 
Council, substantially conforms with the General Plan and Downtown Retail Core Design 
Guidelines, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other 
municipal codes that exist on the site.  
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, 
and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be required to conform 
to the City’s current Security Ordinance through conditions of approval. 
 
2. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040(a)(4)) for the removal 
of major vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the finding that all 
concerns relating to landscaping and tree removal have been addressed as follows: 
 
a. The Project will result in the removal of 39 existing trees, of which 38 are Protected Trees. The 
removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the development of the proposed Project. 
14 of 1252

--- page 15 ---
All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate landscaping to enhance the site and 
pedestrian realm including planting of new street trees along all four frontages of the Project. 
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of approval 
requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive 
landscaping, including planting of 37 new trees (33 street trees and 4 on site), as shown on the 
project plans, and/or through the payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund. 
 
3. The Affordable Housing Plan and on-site construction of ten (10) low-income units to satisfy the 
Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fees are approved, subject to the following findings as 
specified in Municipal Code Section 23.61.050(c): 
a. The proposed affordable units comply with the City's below market rate standards adopted by 
City Council resolution, including that the affordable units be made available for occupancy 
concurrently with the market-rate units. The project proposes 10 low-income units when eight 
units (rounded up from 7.58) are required. Similar to other inclusionary housing projects, the 
project has been conditioned to enter into an agreement with the City, including to ensure the 10 
BMR rental units remain affordable for the life of the project and have access to similar indoor 
and outdoor amenities enjoyed by the other uses (including open space and parking). Although 
the project does not provide market-rate units, the residential units are located on the rooftop of 
the building and will be constructed and provided occupancy at the same time as the office and 
retail spaces as there is only one building proposed.  
b. The affordable units will mitigate the impact of the project on the need for affordable housing as 
adopted by City Council resolution. The on-site construction of ten low-income units in lieu of a 
Commercial Linkage Fee payment will meet the requirements under Resolution 84 (2016), which 
utilized a September 2015 report entitled “Commercial Linkage Fee Nexus Study” when 
determining that eight slow-income units are appropriate for each 100,000 square feet of office 
space and one residential unit is appropriate for each 100,000 square feet of retail space in order 
to ensure that nonresidential development projects will mitigate their impact on their need for 
affordable housing. 
 
 
15 of 1252

--- page 16 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE.,  
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) + SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA) 
400 S B ST, SAN MATEO, CA 94401; 222 4TH AVE, SAN MATEO, 
 PARCEL # 034176070, 034176080, 034176090, 034176050 
 AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON _________ 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 ARCHAEOLOGICAL MONITORING PLAN – The applicant shall submit an Archaeological 
Monitoring Plan prepared by a qualified project archaeologist (meeting or exceeding the 
Secretary of the Interior’s professional qualification standards) that includes provisions for, 
including but not limited to: 
 
(A) Procedures for the appropriate identification and treatment of archaeological 
resources if any are discovered during grading or construction activities; 
(B) Halting work in the immediate area, approximately 33' in diameter or larger, as 
determined by the cultural resources monitor, in the event of a discovery to allow for 
resource evaluation; and, 
16 of 1252

--- page 17 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 2 of 42 
(C) Monitoring by a cultural resources specialist and detailed guidance outlining when and 
for what activities monitors must be present.  
 
The Archaeological Monitoring Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 CULTURAL RESOURCES MONITOR – Should construction monitoring be required by the 
Archaeological Monitoring Plan, the applicant shall submit a scope of work with a cultural 
resources monitor. The scope of work shall indicate that, in the event of a discovery, the 
monitor: 
 
(A) Has stop-work authority to halt all construction activities within 33 feet or greater of 
the discovery, as determined to be necessary for protection and evaluation of the 
resource; 
(B) Will notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner;  
(C) Will evaluate the discovery to determine whether additional treatment is warranted; 
and, 
(D) Will determine adequacy of the evaluation of the discovery prior to authorization of 
construction activities to resume. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 EXCAVATED CONTAMINATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit an approval letter, with or 
without conditions, from San Mateo County Groundwater Protection Program to the 
Planning Division. The letter shall indicate that a comprehensive site management plan 
that addresses waste management and all potential environmental conditions has been 
reviewed and approved by that agency, and the letter shall be subject to the satisfaction of 
the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. In addition, the applicant shall 
demonstrate that site soils have been tested prior to disposal to confirm that the 
concentration of constituents present in site soils do not exceed hazardous waste criteria 
of local, state and federal regulations. If the concentration of constituents in the project 
site soils exceed hazardous waste criteria, the applicant shall also confirm that the soils will 
be disposed of in accordance with local, state, and federal regulations. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 MULTIPLE LOTS – The applicant shall complete either a lot tie agreement or a lot merger in 
order to allow a building across lot lines. (PLANNING) 
17 of 1252

--- page 18 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 3 of 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL  – The applicant shall obtain a Site 
Development Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing 
trees with a diameter of 6 inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site Development 
Permit for tree removal shall authorize the applicant to replace on-site and street trees 
equivalent or greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by 
planting on-site and street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established 
in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of 
both. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 SITE MANAGEMENT PLAN & HEALTH AND SAFETY PLAN - Prior to conducting earthwork 
activities at the project site, a Site Management Plan (SMP) and Health and Safety Plan 
(HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose of these documents will be to establish appropriate 
management practices for handling impacted soil, soil vapor and groundwater that may be 
encountered during construction activities. Based on the history of the project site, areas 
of impacted soil, soil vapor, and/or groundwater may be encountered during construction 
activities. The SMP shall be submitted to the County of San Mateo Health Service Agency 
(CSMHSA) for review, and CSMHSA approval shall be obtained prior to commencing 
earthwork activities at the project site. Proof of CSMHSA approval shall be provided to the 
City Community Development Department prior to issuance of an excavation permit. Prior 
to dewatering during project construction, a Discharge Plan shall be prepared and 
submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works for approval. The Discharge 
Plan shall evaluate and implement if necessary groundwater treatment to meet regulatory 
discharge requirements.  
 
In addition, for the SMP, the following shall be adhered to, subject to the satisfaction of 
the City:  
• If groundwater dewater activities will be conducted during the planned redevelopment, 
the need for treatment of groundwater shall be determined during the required discharge 
permitting process. A Groundwater Waste Discharge Permit shall be obtained from the 
City of San Mateo Public Works Department prior to any discharge to the sanitary sewer 
system. A National Pollutant Elimination System (NPDES) permit shall be obtained prior to 
any discharge to the storm sewer system. 
• The SMP shall establish appropriate protocols for profiling of soil to be removed from the 
18 of 1252

--- page 19 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 4 of 42 
Site for off-Site disposal. The profiling protocols shall be consistent with regulatory 
guidance from Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) such that if samples are 
composited, they shall be from the same soil layer, and that compositing samples for 
volatile and semi-volatile constituents is not  acceptable. The SMP shall also require that 
the profiling protocols meet the requirements of the facility that will be accepting the soil 
for disposal or reuse.   
• To reduce the potential for vapor intrusion, either use a dual-purpose waterproofing 
membrane that provides: 1) required waterproofing protection; 2) chemical degradation 
protection; and 3) serves as an effective vapor barrier; OR conduct soil vapor sampling that 
shall be performed within the proposed building envelop to confirm the presence or 
absence of VOCs above residential screening levels. If the sampling confirms the presence 
of VOCs above residential screening levels, then appropriate membrane installation shall 
be required as approved in writing by an overseeing regulatory agency, such as the County 
of San Mateo Environmental Health Services, Department of Toxic Substances Control or 
the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
(PLANNING/PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN – The applicant shall enter into a contract with a pest control 
specialist and develop a vector control plan to be submitted for review and approval by the 
Community Development Director and the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector 
Control District. The plan shall describe measures which shall be taken by the applicant to 
prevent rodent and pest infestation to adjacent sites, specify pest control measures, cover 
all phases of demolition, landscaping removal, and construction plus for a minimum period 
of six months after the completion of construction. The plan shall also specify that 
modifications will be developed and implemented should additional pest control measures 
be required during construction or demolition activity, subject to approval by the 
Community Development Department Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
11 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER –  The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
19 of 1252

--- page 20 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 5 of 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 LOT TIE AGREEMENTS AND LOT MERGERS: The applicant shall submit a Request for Code 
Modification and Alternate Methods according to California Building Code Section 104.11, 
and shall receive written approval from the Building Official and Fire Marshall if a lot tie 
agreement is to be executed between the property owners, and if the building is to be 
built across lot lines and if exterior wall openings are proposed at interior lot lines. The Lot 
Tie Agreement shall be recorded with the County of San Mateo. (BUILDING) 
 
In lieu of a Lot Tie Agreement, a lot merger may occur and shall comply with the 
procedures outlined in SMMC 26.57.010, Mergers, and the Subdivision Map Act. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
20 of 1252

--- page 21 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 6 of 42 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
18 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
19 LANDSCAPE PLAN CORRECTIONS - The Landscape plans and renderings shall be updated to 
reflect the accurate number of trees to be planted as replacement trees as required by 
section 27.71 and 13.40 of the Municipal Code.  (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24-inch box shall be the minimum size for street trees planted 
along public streets and shall include tree grates and root barriers as specified by the City 
Standard Drawings 3-1-847 and 3-1-933. The landscape plans shall be subject to the review 
and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD 
ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
21 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan 
approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of 
whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project. The amount of the deposit shall be $60,000. Public Works plan checking of the 
plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is 
submitted. The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the 
City, for any costs in excess of the deposit. Invoices shall not become delinquent (shall be 
paid within 30 days of receipt). Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full. The City 
21 of 1252

--- page 22 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 7 of 42 
will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 DOWNTOWN CPID PARKING – The applicant shall demonstrate that the parking required 
by the San Mateo Municipal Code 27.64.100(a) has been fulfilled by any combination of 
the following prior to the issuance of the building permit for the superstructure:  
a. Established credit for previous uses;  
b. Parking provided on-site;  
c. Off-site parking provided with a Special Use Permit and secured lease;  
d. Increase in CPID parking-deficiency assessments; and/or  
e. Payment of a prorated CPID parking fee in lieu of providing parking on site, for the loss 
of a minimum of five (5) street parking spaces on Ellsworth Avenue between the hours of 
8:00am-10:00am Monday through Saturdays.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 NOTICE OF INTENT – For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the 
project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm 
Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board 
(SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To obtain 
coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water 
Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity 
NPDES Permit. Proof of permit shall be provided to the Public Works Department along 
with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP 
designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 PARCEL MAP – If applicant chooses to prepare a Parcel Map instead of the proposed Lot 
Tie Agreement, it shall be the applicant's responsibility to have a parcel map, prepared by 
22 of 1252

--- page 23 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 8 of 42 
a person authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created 
or deleted and all changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 26.56. 
  
The parcel map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded with 
the County Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of the Super Structure permit. A parcel 
map guarantee shall be submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to 
release of the parcel map to the title company for recordation.  
 
Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title company, the applicant may, at the 
discretion of the Director of Public Works or designee, be required to submit to the City an 
electronic copy of the map in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the 
time of recordation. It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company 
and the County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map 
recorded after City approval. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT (PIA) – If the applicant wishes to have the Building 
Permit for the superstructure issued prior to the completion of the project’s public 
improvements, the applicant shall enter into a Public Improvement Agreement (PIA) with 
the City and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining public improvements to be 
completed.  The PIA will be forwarded to the City Council for approval. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 TIE-BACK AGREEMENT – If the shoring system required to perform the excavation for the 
project includes tie-backs that encroach into the public right-of-way, the Applicant shall 
execute and record the City's standard tie-back agreement prior to the issuance of the 
shoring building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
23 of 1252

--- page 24 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 9 of 42 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements. 
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, at 
a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
32 VOLUNTARY SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC USE – The applicant shall execute 
a voluntary shared parking agreement with the City of San Mateo as approved by the 
Public Works Director or designee. The applicant shall provide a Parking Operations Plan, 
outlining how the shared parking arrangement will operate, to the City of San Mateo prior 
to the issuance of the first permit. The agreement and the Parking Operations Plan shall be 
subject to approval of the Principal Transportation Planner. This agreement shall be 
executed prior to the issuance of a building permit for the superstructure. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
Planning Division (PA) 
33 ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a 
qualified acoustical consultant which shall contain recommendations to ensure the 
building’s interior noise levels comply with the levels established in the General Plan or 
Building Code, whichever is more restrictive, subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
34 ACOUSTICAL TREATMENTS - The applicant shall specify acoustical treatments in the 
building permit plans for the superstructure in compliance with State Building Codes, the 
City’s Noise Ordinance, and General Plan. The applicant shall also submit an acoustical 
analysis prepared by a professional acoustical consultant to ensure that the design 
incorporates controls to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower within the 
residential units and to 50 dBA Leq(1-hr) or lower within nonresidential interiors subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The 
applicant shall conform with any special building construction techniques noted in the 
project’s acoustical analysis, which may include sound-rated windows and doors, sound-
rated wall constructions, and acoustical caulking. The acoustical analysis and building 
permit plans shall specify the following noise insulation features to reduce interior noise 
levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less at residential interiors:  
24 of 1252

--- page 25 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 10 of 42 
• Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, subject to the satisfaction of 
the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, for all residential units on the 
project site, so that windows can be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion to control 
interior noise and achieve the interior noise standards. 
• Preliminary calculations indicate that all residential units would require windows and 
doors with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced-air mechanical ventilation to 
meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) AGREEMENT – In accordance with Municipal Code Section 
27.16.050, the applicant shall enter into and record a BMR Affordability Restriction 
Agreement to provide BMR unit(s) and, if applicable, pay an in-lieu fee for fractional unit(s) 
as outlined in the adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. The BMR unit(s) shall: 
(A) Have access to all on-site amenities for residential uses; 
(B) In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase; 
(C) Have interior unit amenities that are, at a minimum, UL (Underwriter's Laboratory) or 
AGA -listed ; and 
(D) Include 10 units at the Low Income Level (80% AMI) for the life of the project, of which 
two units shall be a studio, and eight units shall be one-bedroom units. 
(E) There shall be at least ten (10) parking spaces dedicated to residents, contingent upon 
meeting Municipal Code Section 23.54.030 or provide an alternative consistent with 
Municipal Code Section 23.54.120. If compliance with these code sections cannot be 
obtained, then the applicant shall not be required to provide dedicated residential parking. 
 
The BMR Affordability Restriction Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the 
Housing Manager, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 BICYCLE PARKING – Prior to issuance of the building permit for the superstructure, the 
plans shall demonstrate conformance to the bicycle parking standards per SMMC 
27.64.262. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time of building permit issuance. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE – The applicant shall construct below-market-rate residential 
units on-site at the low-income level in accordance with the Affordable Housing 
25 of 1252

--- page 26 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 11 of 42 
Commercial Linkage Fee requirements per Municipal Code Section 23.61 and Resolution 84 
(2016). These units, proposed as an alternative to the payment of the affordable housing 
commercial linkage fee, shall be subject to the requirements described in the City’s Below 
Market Rate Housing Program. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months 
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening 
for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened 
with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 MECHANICAL VENTILATION – All exterior mechanical ventilation designs for subterranean 
garages shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All mechanical ventilation shall be incorporated into the 
building design or landscaped areas and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure 
or parapet wall with materials compatible with the building design subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES – All above-grade trash and recycling enclosures shall 
be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
26 of 1252

--- page 27 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 12 of 42 
Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
45 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES AND PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS – If the project includes food 
service, public pools, and/or spas, the applicant shall submit an approval letter from the 
County of San Mateo Health Department. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
48 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from 
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
27 of 1252

--- page 28 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 13 of 42 
 
 
50 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – The plans shall show a key switch/shunt trip to disconnect 
the solar photovoltaic system by Fire Department personnel. The key switch/shunt trip 
location(s) shall be subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
52 PARK IMPACT FEE - The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) or 
a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) 
(SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the final map 
for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for the park impact 
fee. The park in-lieu fee shall be paid prior to the release of the final map for recordation 
and the park impact fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. If a 
project with an approved tentative map is issued a building permit prior to the approval of 
the final map, the applicant shall be subject to the payment of the park impact fee only 
prior to the issuance of the first building superstructure permit. (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
53 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE –  The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 PARKING GARAGE SECURITY –  The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show:  
 
(A) Restricted access to the parking garage outside of standard business hours (restricted 
hours defined as bank holidays, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday through Friday from 
6:00pm to 6:00am, or 30 minutes before and after the grocery store hours, or as defined in 
a Shared Use Agreement that the City is a party to). Outside of standard business hours 
this parking garage shall include electrically operated closures to allow passage of motor 
vehicles. The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging shall be provided with 
reopening devices which will function to stop and reopen the closure in case the closure is 
obstructed when closing. Openings into the garage which are not for vehicular or human 
passage shall be provided with security grilles or screens. 
28 of 1252

--- page 29 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 14 of 42 
 
If residential parking spaces are provided, per condition No. 35 entitled "Below Market 
Rate (BMR) Agreement", they shall be compliant with Municipal Code Section 23.54.030 or 
provide an alternative consistent with Municipal Code Section 23.54.120.  Any design 
changes to accommodate these safety requirements shall be completed through the 
building plan check process to the satisfaction of the Police Department and the 
Community Development Director. 
 
(B) Digital keypads and/or wireless “click to enter” systems complying with SECURED 
BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERONNEL shall be provided to allow for entry into the 
garages when it is secured. Exterior doors or gates providing access into the secure areas 
of the parking garage shall remain locked outside of standard business hours, and shall 
only be accessible through the use of keys, key fob or remote keyless entry system devices 
furnished to the building occupants. All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within 
parking garages shall have doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close 
and lock quickly and automatically upon exit. 
 
(C) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security Ordinance as it 
applies to SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the parking garage. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point-by-point photometric 
plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet across the 
entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  
Photometric calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum 
foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall 
be included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be 
provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING 
STANDARDS.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020  CITY 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the following 
allowances for the placement of emergency communications equipment on the building 
permit plans: 
29 of 1252

--- page 30 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 15 of 42 
 
(A) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked 
server room that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to be a fire control 
room); 
 
(B) One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof.  The conduit shall be 
provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull string and ring; 
 
(C) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof.  The maximum allowable distance from 
the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 feet; 
 
(D) One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator.  An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if the 
building is not provided with an emergency generator; 
 
(E) 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and, 
 
(F) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to supply a 
functional emergency responder radio coverage system. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior 
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These access 
systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the building. 
The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to secured 
areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system placement location is subject 
to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval 
of the first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the 
Chief of Police or his/her designee at the time of installation. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 SITE FURNITURE – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show permanent 
site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from 
laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing elevation 
changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site furniture shall be 
secured at the close of each business day. (POLICE) 
30 of 1252

--- page 31 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 16 of 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and exterior 
doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, and basement levels. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and 
storage equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  
(POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
61 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project lateral connection (MH13H-28X to MH13H-02X). The video 
inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer video inspection company, to 
City standards and the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), and be completed prior to 
issuance of the building permit for the superstructure. The video of the inspection shall be 
reviewed with the Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line 
along the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at their expense. The required 
repairs (spray foam-RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of roots, or replacement), as 
determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the building permit plans for 
the superstructure submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. All necessary repairs 
to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior to connection of the project lateral to 
the sewer. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all sanitary sewer 
lines to be clean and inspected. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project area (MH 13H-31 to MH 14H-03). The video inspection shall be 
done by a professional video inspection company, to City standards and the Sewer System 
Management Plan (SSMP), and be completed prior to issuance of the building permit for 
the superstructure. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the Department of 
Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the project frontage shall 
be repaired by the applicant at their expense. The required repairs, as determined by the 
31 of 1252

--- page 32 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 17 of 42 
Public Works Department, shall appear on the building permit plans for the superstructure 
submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. All necessary repairs to the storm line 
shall be completed and approved prior to connection from the project site. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show all storm drain lines to be clean and 
inspected.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3 1 120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase 
to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform 
to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All drainage capacity 
calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to the City for review 
and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the building permit for the 
superstructure. The applicant shall install storm drain (SD) improvements, including but 
not limited to following: 290 LF of 18" SD line and 3 SDMH along S. Ellsworth Avenue from 
an existing MH on E 5th Avenue, and extend 62 LF of 18" SD line connecting to a MH 
collecting the site flow onto 4th Avenue; and, 213 LF of 18" SD line and 2 MH along S B 
Street; and the project will install 7 CB collecting street and site flows via 12" SD lines along 
all frontages as shown on the Preliminary Utility Plan sheet C4.00. Projects that include 
permanent structural controls for stormwater treatment, shall comply with requirements 
of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County (MRP). 
The O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such control features shall be 
submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify the owner’s 
responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance. Such O&M 
responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s 
Office. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
32 of 1252

--- page 33 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 18 of 42 
 
 
65 FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT CLEANING – The applicant of any food service facilities shall 
have any sink or other floor mat, container, and equipment cleaning area, connected to a 
grease interceptor prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer system. The cleaning area 
shall be large enough to clean the largest mat or piece of equipment to be cleaned. The 
cleaning area shall be indoors or in a covered outdoor area; either areas being plumbed to 
the sanitary sewer. Outdoor cleaning areas shall be designed to prevent stormwater run-
on from entering the sanitary sewer and to prevent stormwater run-off from carrying 
pollutants to the site storm drains. Signs shall be posted indicating that all food service 
equipment washing activities shall be conducted in this area. Regular maintenance and 
cleaning of the grease interceptor is required. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show connection to grease interceptors. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to 
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service 
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit 
plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer system and 
shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 LOADING ZONE(S) IN THE PUBLIC ROW – The applicant shall install a loading zone as shown 
on the approved plans by obtaining an encroachment permit from the Department of 
Public Works and approval from the City Manager pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 11.48. (Public Works) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
 
33 of 1252

--- page 34 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 19 of 42 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a material 
and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are 
damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, 
painted curbs and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be 
thermoplastic. Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject 
to approval by the Director of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or 
pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand 
blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark 
any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(B) SIDEWALK, CURB, AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards 
all sidewalk, curb, and gutter surrounding the project site limited to the project site 
frontage, or as shown on the approved public improvement plan. Sidewalk, curb, and 
gutter replacement shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
(C) CURB RAMP(S) – The applicant shall construct curb ramp(s) in accordance with State 
Standard Drawing No. A88A along all frontages. The actual ramp "Case" shall be identified 
on the plans and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or 
34 of 1252

--- page 35 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 20 of 42 
designee.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(D) DRIVEWAY APPROACH– The applicant shall install a City Standard Commercial driveway 
approach as shown on the approved plans.  The new commercial driveway approach shall 
be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-148.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(E) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City Standard 
sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street 
right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3 1 
101. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(F) STORM MAIN - The applicant shall install new 18 inch storm drain mainline and 
apparatuses, along S Ellsworth Avenue and S. B Street frontages from E 4th to E 5th 
Avenue, to serve the development as shown on the approved plan and in accordance with 
City Standards established by the Director of Public or designee. The new storm lines shall 
be RCP or as approved by the City Engineer or designee. Applicant shall submit plans, 
drawings and storm calculations for review and approval by the Public Works Director or 
designee prior to submitting the first building permit. Construction of the new mainline 
shall be completed prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(G) SANITARY AND STORM SEWER MANHOLES – The applicant shall install approximately 
six (6)standard storm and two (2) sanitary sewer manhole, per approved plans and in 
accordance with City Standard Drawing. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(H) STORM WATER CATCH BASIN(S) – The applicant shall install approximately seven (7) 
standard storm water catch basins, per approved plans and in accordance with City 
Standard Drawing.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(I) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
the applicant shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements per 
approved plan. The improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and 
specifications provided by San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or 
City of San Mateo GI Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee. Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, 
whose signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets, and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project superstructure plans. GI 
improvements shall be maintained by the adjacent property owner and included in the 
stormwater treatment O&M (operation and maintenance) agreement that is recorded 
with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
35 of 1252

--- page 36 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 21 of 42 
 
(J) TRAFFIC SIGNAL INFRASTRUCTURE – Signal modifications may be required as part of the 
project off-site improvements. Traffic signal modification work will be limited to new 
poles/signal equipment on the project corners per the planned frontage improvements 
and modifications to other intersection corners only in instances where existing traffic 
signal poles or pull boxes will interfere with proposed curb ramps on those corners, or as 
required by the project Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA). 
If required, the applicant shall submit all necessary traffic signal design plans, including 
pole and conductor schedules where necessary, to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee for review and approval as part of the Building Permit for the 
Superstructure. The plans shall show all traffic signal equipment upgrades to comply with 
latest California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD), Caltrans, and City 
standards requirements. Improvements shall include, but are not limited to, accessible 
pedestrian signals (APS) and pushbuttons (PPB), emergency vehicle preemption signal 
equipment, video detection equipment, 12” LED signal diodes, intersection PTZ camera, 
signal head backplates, internally illuminated street name signs, traffic signal interconnect 
or fiber optic communications. 
If required, during construction applicant shall provide equipment submittals, signal timing 
and/or configuration changes, and testing documentation to the Director of Public Works 
or designee or designee for review and approval prior to installation. The developer shall 
be responsible for development and implementation of any new required signal timing. 
Where traffic signals within the City of San Mateo right-of-way are owned by other 
agencies, the developer shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary approvals and 
permits and pay all fees associated with bringing the traffic signal up to latest standards 
and requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(K) STREETLIGHTS AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall submit both a lighting plan 
and streetlight improvement plan. 
 
Lighting Plan: 
The lighting plan shall include a design for lighting all public streets, intersections, 
sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and bicycle facilities located in the public roadway right-of-
way adjacent to the project site. The lighting plan shall be designed to meet the lighting 
levels recommended in the Illuminating Engineering Society’s (IES) Recommended Practice 
For Design And Maintenance Of Roadway And Parking Facility Lighting (ANSI/IES RP-8-18), 
and shall be based on photometric analysis prepared using lighting design software.  The 
lighting plan shall show the location and type of all luminaires, luminaire mounting heights, 
luminaire arm lengths, photometric analysis zones, and all calculated point illuminance 
values.  The analysis in the lighting plan shall utilize the Illuminance Method described in 
36 of 1252

--- page 37 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 22 of 42 
ANSI/IES RP-8-18.  Separate analysis zones shall be used for each street, each sidewalk by 
frontage, and each intersection.  Analysis zones and calculation points shall be configured 
according to the City’s standard practice in use at the time the analysis is begun.  The 
analysis zone for each street fronting the project site shall include the entirety of the 
roadway from curb face to curb face. The design for the lighting plan shall achieve the 
required lighting levels using the least number of luminaires possible, using a consistent 
pattern of luminaire placement, and shall include luminaires on both sides of the street if 
such a pattern reduces the number of luminaires required, unless otherwise approved by 
the City.  The design shall also include pedestrian scale lighting if pedestrian scale lighting 
is already in use on the block of the project frontage, or if the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan 
recommends pedestrian scale lighting on the project frontage.  Pedestrian scale lights shall 
be placed at a minimum spacing of 50 feet between poles on the same side of the street.  
Cobra head lights shall be placed at a minimum spacing of 100 feet between poles on the 
same side of the street.  There shall be a minimum spacing of 50 feet between cobra head 
and pedestrian scale lights on the same side of the street, if a mix of both types of lighting 
is used.  Reduced spacing may be approved by the City if the photometric analysis 
indicates it is necessary to meet the required lighting levels.  The design may incorporate 
existing luminaires.  The City will provide the applicant with information about the type 
and approximate location of existing streetlights near the project site that are to be 
included in the photometric analysis.  All new luminaires shall be selected from the City’s 
list of standard luminaires at the time of design.  Only City owned streetlights within the 
public right-of-way, or located in an easement on private property, may be used, unless 
otherwise approved by the City.  The applicant shall implement the lighting plan from their 
project frontage to the roadway centerline. 
The photometric analysis in the lighting plan shall utilize the following parameters for this 
project as defined in ANSI/IES RP-8-18. 
4th Avenue: Major roadway, High pedestrian activity level 
5th Avenue: Major roadway, High pedestrian activity level 
B Street: Collector roadway, High pedestrian activity level 
Ellsworth Avenue: Collector roadway, High pedestrian activity level 
 
Streetlight Improvement Plan: 
The applicant shall implement the lighting plan from their project frontage to the roadway 
centerline and as necessary to create a functioning lighting system.  The applicant shall 
submit a streetlight improvement plan showing all work necessary to construct the 
streetlight improvements for which they are responsible to implement. The plan shall 
include all electrical calculations (i.e. voltage drop) required for design of a functional 
streetlight system that complies with all applicable codes and standards. It shall be the 
applicant’s responsibility to field verify the location of all existing streetlight equipment 
37 of 1252

--- page 38 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 23 of 42 
and infrastructure, including, but not limited to, underground conduits, pull boxes, poles, 
and electrical service connections, as needed for the preparation of the photometric 
analysis and streetlight improvement plans. 
 
The applicant shall prepare all documents needed as attachments to applications to the 
serving electrical utility for new, or modifications to existing, electrical service connections.  
The City will submit the application to the serving utility. 
 
The applicant shall pay all fees, permits, dues, etc., associated with implementing the 
streetlight improvements. 
 
The applicant shall consult with the City for additional guidance on preparing the lighting 
plan and streetlight improvement plan, prior to beginning preparation of said both plans. 
If any changes to streetlight locations or quantities are proposed during the building 
permit phase, a new photometric analysis shall be prepared by the applicant for review 
and approval by the Director of Public Works or designee and the lighting shall be 
furnished and installed in accordance with the new photometric analysis as approved. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall be a 
separate water meter for each development use. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71 SEWER CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to the project’s share of 
the increased amount of sewage generated by the project, as established by San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based upon the City Council 
resolution in effect at the time of building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC 
WORKS, BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
38 of 1252

--- page 39 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 24 of 42 
 
 
73 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
74 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources 
Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash 
capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 25' triangular area of visibility at any 
project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are 
less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility 
facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76 UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show that water from the underground parking garage shall not be 
discharged onto the public street. The applicant shall direct discharge from underground 
garage to the City's sanitary sewer system. Stormwater runoff from the roof or other 
exposed areas of the project shall not discharge to these garage drains. The design shall be 
done by a licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings 
subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
77 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
39 of 1252

--- page 40 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 25 of 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, 
location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters 
and placements or arrangements of junction structures. 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide the 
pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee or designee prior to final 
design. Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
79 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. . (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be 
supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
81 ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance 
40 of 1252

--- page 41 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 26 of 42 
letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant 
indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach compliance with the 
noise limits listed in Tables N-1 and N-2 of the Noise Element of the General Plan. This 
letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82 FINAL ARCHAEOLOGICAL REPORT – The applicant shall submit a final report on the 
monitoring results prepared by the project archaeologist subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
84 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
85 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall comply with Section 23.60 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code for Art in Public Places. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
87 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING –  In accordance with the City’s Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a licensed 
landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation designer shall 
41 of 1252

--- page 42 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 27 of 42 
complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation in 
Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of completion shall be 
submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and approval of the 
Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
88 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this project.  Testing shall occur during construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide 
a third-party testing grid report to the Fire Department subject to the review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install  the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction shall 
insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
90 DEDICATIONS – The applicant or owner shall dedicate adequate Sidewalk Easement (SWE) 
along its frontages, one and half foot (1.5') along S. B Street, three foot (3') along E. 4TH 
Avenue, and half foot (0.5') along S. Ellsworth Avenue, as shown on the approved plan. 
Applicants shall provide plat and legal for City review and approval prior to building permit 
issuance for the super structure and provide recorded document prior to final inspection 
or occupancy permit issuance. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
91 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in 
42 of 1252

--- page 43 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 28 of 42 
PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
92 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the applicant 
shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete of the roadways damaged 
directly as a result of construction activities within the general area of the project or along 
the designated haul route. If the street abutting the property has been classified as being 
in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant shall 
reconstruct the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be curb to curb width of all street 
frontages including the entire intersections and is subject to the review and approval of 
the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
93 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall 
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s 
Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
94 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project (refer to the 222 E. 4th 
Avenue TDM Plan, dated October 2022). The property owner or designee shall submit a 
written letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis with an assessment of 
compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including mode split 
survey results, by the end of every calendar year (December 31st). (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
95 ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of archaeological resources 
whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 33 feet of the discovery or larger, as determined by a qualified 
43 of 1252

--- page 44 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 29 of 42 
archaeologist, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified 
archaeologist.  The archaeologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, contact local 
Native American and Historical organizations for proposed recommendations for 
continuing construction, and submit a summary of findings to the Project Planner. The 
applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of the local Native American and 
Historical organizations when continuing construction. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96 CULTURAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of human remains whether on-site 
in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all activity within 50 feet of the discovery 
and 33 feet for every subsequent discovery, or an appropriate distance as determined by 
the cultural resource monitor, and notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner. 
The applicant shall also immediately notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a 
determination made as to whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether 
an investigation into the cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains and any 
associated or unassociated funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity 
within the project site shall comply with applicable State laws. If the remains are 
determined to be Native American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage 
Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, 
the descendants will make recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be 
implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
97 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all 
construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or 
Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the 
discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a 
summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
44 of 1252

--- page 45 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 30 of 42 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
99 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
100 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
101 BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS – Prior to the installation or use of 
barricades, fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction, 
the applicant submit plans to the Fire Plan Checker subject to the review and approval of 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
103 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 905.3.1, 
the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or 
demolition. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
105 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
45 of 1252

--- page 46 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 31 of 42 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary 
sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater 
than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months shall obtain an NPDES permit from the 
State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. Discharge of uncontaminated 
groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the applicant can provide analytical data 
to support the claim. No discharge to the storm drain shall be allowed without prior 
approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the sanitary sewer 
(contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and shall comply 
with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
109 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within the 
vicinity of Hillsdale Mall and within the Downtown area during the holiday season (Monday 
prior to Thanksgiving to January 1), there shall be no construction activities within the 
right-of-way which would create lane closures, eliminate parking, create pedestrian 
detours, or other activities that may create a major disturbance as determined by the 
46 of 1252

--- page 47 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 32 of 42 
Director of Public Works or designee. Exceptions to this condition shall be made in writing 
to the Public Works Director or designee. Prohibition on El Camino Real shall be along its 
entire length within the City limits. For purposes of this condition, the limits of the 
Downtown area shall be defined as: between El Camino Real on the west and Delaware 
Street on the east, Tilton Avenue on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. The 
prohibition shall also include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware Street 
and U.S. 101. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be: HWY-101, 
3rd Avenue and 4th Avenue, or as approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. A 
letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be 
submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any 
City permits. All material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the 
approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street 
maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers shall 
be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be 
allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The 
applicant shall provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. 
Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed 
immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is 
permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). All material hauling 
activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of 
approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction: 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
47 of 1252

--- page 48 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 33 of 42 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee finds 
that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.  
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
48 of 1252

--- page 49 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 34 of 42 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down 
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.  
 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
112 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
49 of 1252

--- page 50 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 35 of 42 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
113 CONSTRUCTION STAGING AND PARKING PLAN (PRIVATE PROPERTY): The project currently 
proposes construction staging and stockpiling on site. If construction staging or stockpiling 
is required on another private property, then a Special Use Permit may be required. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
114 GROCERY STORE USE –The purpose of the retail ground space is for a grocery store use for 
the life of the project. All efforts shall be made to ensure that this purpose is met. If the 
project seeks to provide uses other than a grocery store, the applicant shall provide 
documentation that evidences a reasonable and diligent good-faith effort to have utilized 
the space for a grocery store, subject to the approval of the Community Development 
Director and the City's Economic Development Manager. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
115 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to 
ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
116 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
50 of 1252

--- page 51 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 36 of 42 
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
118 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY – The 
applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety 
communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times 
that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. If the City 
installs radio equipment, applicant shall take reasonable measures to secure and safeguard 
City equipment from theft or vandalism. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
119 RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGES SERVICE TRAINING – If the sale of alcoholic beverages for on-site 
consumption is proposed, the applicant shall require that employees and supervisors 
responsible for the sale or service of alcoholic beverages complete Responsible Beverage 
Service training provided by the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, or a 
service provider listed with ABC. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of 
producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a 
color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting standard 
is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, 
and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit 
light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site.  
(POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
121 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
51 of 1252

--- page 52 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 37 of 42 
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside mixed-use parking garages, 
driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all 
buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount 
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the building 
facing out. 
 
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion.  Cameras 
viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites and/or garages 
shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the sites and/or garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make 
and model of vehicles accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of 
vehicles, and clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
122 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in 
the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately 
prior to and once during the storm season. 
 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by 
the City Council, in effect at the time. 
 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains to 
Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works. 
52 of 1252

--- page 53 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 38 of 42 
 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
123 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PLAN – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be monitored and assessed annually for 
the occupied life of the development. The program shall be recorded with the County.  The 
assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including 
mode split survey results, shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every calendar 
year (December 31st). (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions are MITIGATION MEASURES that mitigate adverse environmental effects 
identified in the environmental document. Monitoring and reporting procedures are contained 
within each condition. A change in the condition of approval may affect the validity of the current 
environmental document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
124 COMPLIANCE WITH MMRP – The Mitigation Measures identified in the conditions of 
approval and in the adopted Addendum to the General Plan Environmental Impact Report 
(EIR) and Downtown Area Specific Plan Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
(IS/MND) (Addendum) Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP) shall be 
completed in accordance with the timelines for project construction and operation within 
each mitigation measure. The applicant shall provide documentation demonstrating 
compliance to the Planning Division. In the event of any inconsistencies between the 
mitigation measures as set forth in the Addendum and the MMRP, the MMRP shall 
control. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
125 MM AIR 3.1:  - Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a 
construction management plan to the Building Division that demonstrates that all cranes, 
forklifts, generator sets, and welders used in project construction shall be equipped with 
Tier 4 diesel engines or better (e.g., natural gas generators or electric welders).  
 
 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall also submit an emissions 
reduction plan to the Planning Division that details the equipment to be used during 
construction and be signed by a qualified air quality specialist, verifying that the 
equipment included in the plan meets the standards set forth in this measure (i.e., Tier 4 
53 of 1252

--- page 54 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 39 of 42 
or better).  
 
Alternatively, if use of Tier 4 equipment is not available, the applicant may propose use of 
equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission standards for Tier 3 engines and include 
particulate matter emissions control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel emission 
control devices Alternatively, the project may also use electrical or non-diesel fueled 
equipment. All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
The construction management plan and emissions reduction plan are subject to review 
and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
126 MM BIO-1.1: Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development permit 
for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall submit a phasing plan to the 
City’s Planning Division with a schedule of both on-site and off-site demolition and 
construction activities to review the activities that may occur during the nesting season 
subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. 
The nesting season for most birds, including most raptors in the San Francisco Bay area, 
extends from February 1 through August 31 (inclusive). (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
127 MM BIO-1.2: If any demolition and construction are scheduled during the nesting season, 
between September 1 and January 31 (inclusive), the applicant shall engage a qualified 
ornithologist to complete a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to ensure that no 
nests are disturbed during demolition or construction. During this survey, the ornithologist 
shall inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats immediately adjacent to the 
construction areas for nests. This survey shall be completed no more than 14 days prior to 
the initiation of any construction or demolition activities during the early part of the 
breeding season (February 1 through April 30 inclusive) and no more than 30 days prior to 
the initiation of these activities during the late part of the breeding season (May 1 through 
August 31 inclusive).  
 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by construction 
(typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet for other species), the ornithologist, in 
consultation with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the 
extent of a construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to ensure that 
bird nests shall not be disturbed during project construction. 
 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development permit for tree 
54 of 1252

--- page 55 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 40 of 42 
removal (whichever occurs first), the ornithologist shall submit a report indicating the 
results of the survey and any designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division 
subject to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her designee 
should demolition and construction activities occur during the nesting season. 
 (PLANNING) 
128 MM CUL-2.1: Prior to the issuance of any building permit involving excavation, shoring, 
foundation, or the superstructure, the project applicant shall hire a qualified Professional 
Archaeologist to develop a Worker’s Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train 
the construction crew on the legal requirements for the treatment of cultural resources as 
well as procedures to follow in the event of a cultural resources discovery. This training 
program shall be given to the crew before ground disturbing work commences and shall 
include handouts to be given to new workers. (PLANNING) 
129 MM CUL-2.2: The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require ground 
disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing buried cultural resources 
including prehistoric Native American burials. (PLANNING) 
130 MM CUL-2.3: If any prehistoric or significant historic period cultural materials are exposed 
during construction grading and/or excavation whether on-site or off-site, the applicant 
shall halt all construction activities within 33 feet of the find or larger as determined by 
the cultural resources monitor, and the Professional Archaeologist shall provide 
identification, evaluation, and further recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of 
San Mateo requirements. 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural resources exposed during 
construction constitute a historical resource and/or unique archaeological resource under 
CEQA, the applicant shall notify the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, and provide avoidance, preservation in-place, recordation, additional 
archaeological testing and data recovery measures to reduce impacts to a less than 
significant level. The applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological Monitoring 
Plan (AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan (ATP) that includes data recovery if 
significant archaeological deposits are exposed during ground disturbing construction. 
The applicant shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to the City’s Planning Division subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. 
Development and implementation of the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant 
cultural resources will be determined by the applicant in consultation with the California 
Office of Historic Preservation and the City of San Mateo. (PLANNING) 
55 of 1252

--- page 56 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 41 of 42 
131 MM CUL-3.1: In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation and/or 
grading whether on-site or within the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all 
activity within a 50 feet of the discovery and 33 feet for every subsequent discovery, or an 
appropriate distance as determined by the cultural resource monitor, and notify the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall also 
immediately notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a determination made as to 
whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the 
cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains and any associated or 
unassociated funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within the 
project site shall comply with applicable State laws (i.e., Native American burials, Chapter 
1492, Section 7050.5 to the Health and Safety Code, Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 
5097.99 of the Public Resources Code). If the remains are determined to be Native 
American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) 
immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the descendants will 
make recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in 
accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING) 
132 MM NOI-1.1:  The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction 
equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive receptors. 
Construction equipment shall be well-maintained and used judiciously to be as quiet as 
possible. Additionally, the applicant and contractor shall incorporate the following best 
management practices to reduce noise from construction activities on nearby sensitive 
land uses: 
(A) The applicant and/or contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan identifying
the schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. The construction plan shall
identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land uses so that
construction activities can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. This construction
plan shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the review and satisfaction of
the Community Development Director, or his/her designee prior to the issuance of a
demolition permit.
(B) The applicant and/or contractor shall designate a “disturbance coordinator” who would
be responsible for responding to any complaints about construction noise and vibrations.
The disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise complaint (e.g., bad
muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures be implemented to reduce the noise impact.
The applicant and/or contractor shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to
neighbors regarding the construction schedule.
(C) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the greatest
56 of 1252

--- page 57 ---
PA-2021-071, 222 E. 4TH AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on  
Page 42 of 42 
distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors 
nearest the project site during all project construction.  
(D) Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and exhaust 
mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
(E) Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines shall be strictly prohibited. 
(F) Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or portable 
power generators, as far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. If they 
must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling (with 
barriers or enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels 
at the adjacent sensitive receptors.  
(G) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air compressors and 
other stationary noise sources where technology exists. 
(H) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not audible 
at existing residences surrounding the project site, the nearest of which are 90 feet to the 
southeast. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
57 of 1252

--- page 58 ---
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
and  
Conditions of Approval
 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
PA-2021-071 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
November 2022 
EXHIBIT B
58 of 1252

--- page 59 ---
P R E F A C E 
 
Section 21081 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the 
environment. The purpose of the monitoring and reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project 
implementation. 
 
The Addendum for the 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project concluded that the implementation of the project could result in significant 
effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project or are required as a condition of project 
approval. This Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be 
implemented. 
 
This document also includes the City’s Conditions of Approval identified in the CEQA analysis as measures that would minimize 
potential adverse effects that could result from implementation of the project, and to ensure these conditions are implemented and 
monitored. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59 of 1252

--- page 60 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 1 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Mitigation Measures 
AIR QUALITY 
MM AIR-3.1: 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a 
construction management plan to the Building Division that 
demonstrates that all cranes, forklifts, generator sets, and welders used 
in project construction shall be equipped with Tier 4 diesel engines or 
better (e.g., natural gas generators or electric welders).  
 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall also 
submit an emissions reduction plan to the Planning Division that 
details the equipment to be used during construction and be signed by 
a qualified air quality specialist, verifying that the equipment included 
in the plan meets the standards set forth in this measure (i.e., Tier 4 or 
better).  
 
 
Alternatively, if use of Tier 4 equipment is not available, the applicant 
may propose use of equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission 
standards for Tier 3 engines and include particulate matter emissions 
control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel emission control 
devices Alternatively, the project may also use electrical or non-diesel 
fueled equipment. All construction vehicles shall be properly 
maintained and equipped with exhaust mufflers that meet State 
standards. 
 
The construction management plan and emissions reduction plan are 
subject to review and approval of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. 
 
Prior to issuance 
of any demolition 
or construction 
permits. 
Project 
applicant/project 
contractors 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
60 of 1252

--- page 61 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 2 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development 
permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall 
submit a phasing plan to the City’s Planning Division with a schedule 
of both on-site and off-site demolition and construction activities to 
review the activities that may occur during the nesting season subject 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. The nesting season for most birds, including most raptors in 
the San Francisco Bay area, extends from February 1 through August 
31 (inclusive). 
MM BIO-1.2: 
If any demolition and construction are scheduled during the nesting 
season, between February 1 and August 31 (inclusive), the applicant 
shall engage a qualified ornithologist to complete a pre-construction 
survey for nesting birds to ensure that no nests are disturbed during 
demolition or construction. During this survey, the ornithologist shall 
inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats immediately 
adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This survey shall be 
completed no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of any 
construction or demolition activities during the early part of the 
breeding season (February 1 through April 30 inclusive) and no more 
than 30 days prior to the initiation of these activities during the late 
part of the breeding season (May 1 through August 31 inclusive). 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be 
disturbed by construction (typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet 
for other species), the ornithologist, in consultation with the California 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the 
issuance of the 
first building 
permit or site 
development 
permit for tree 
removal. 
MM BIO-1.2: 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition- or 
construction-
related permits. 
Project Applicant;  
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
California 
Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
61 of 1252

--- page 62 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 3 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the extent of a 
construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to 
ensure that bird nests shall not be disturbed during project 
construction. 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development 
permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the ornithologist 
shall submit a report indicating the results of the survey and any 
designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her 
designee should demolition and construction activities occur during 
the nesting season. 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
MM CUL-2.1: 
Prior to the issuance of any building permit involving excavation, 
shoring, foundation, or the superstructure, the project applicant 
shall hire a qualified Professional Archaeologist to develop a 
Worker’s Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train the 
construction crew on the legal requirements for the treatment of 
cultural resources as well as procedures to follow in the event of a 
cultural resources discovery. This training program shall be given 
to the crew before ground disturbing work commences and shall 
include handouts to be given to new workers. 
MM CUL-2.2: 
The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require 
ground disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing 
buried cultural resources including prehistoric Native American 
burials. 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
Project Applicant; 
Professional 
Archaeologist  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
62 of 1252

--- page 63 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 4 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
MM CUL-2.3: 
If any prehistoric or significant historic period cultural materials 
are exposed during construction grading and/or excavation 
whether on-site or off-site, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 33 feet of the find or larger as determined by the 
cultural resources monitor, and the Professional Archaeologist 
shall provide identification, evaluation, and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo 
requirements. 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural 
resources exposed during construction constitute a historical 
resource and/or unique archaeological resource under CEQA, the 
applicant shall notify the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, and provide avoidance, preservation in-place, 
recordation, additional archaeological testing and data recovery 
measures to reduce impacts to a less than significant level. The 
applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological 
Monitoring Plan (AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan 
(ATP) that includes data recovery if significant archaeological 
deposits are exposed during ground disturbing construction. The 
applicant shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to the City’s 
Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. Development and 
implementation of the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant 
cultural resources will be determined by the applicant in 
consultation with the California Office of Historic Preservation 
and the City of San Mateo. 
MM CUL-2.3: 
During 
construction 
grading and/or 
excavation. 
Project Applicant; 
Professional 
Archaeologist 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
63 of 1252

--- page 64 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 5 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
MM CUL-3.1: 
In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation and/
or grading whether on-site or within the public right-of-way, the 
applicant shall halt all activity within a 50 feet of the discovery and 33 
feet for every subsequent discovery, or an appropriate distance as 
determined by the cultural resource monitor, and notify the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant 
shall also immediately notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a 
determination made as to whether the remains are of Native American 
origin or whether an investigation into the cause of death is required. 
Treatment of human remains and any associated or unassociated 
funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within 
the project site shall comply with applicable State laws (i.e., Native 
American burials, Chapter 1492, Section 7050.5 to the Health and 
Safety Code, Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the Public 
Resources Code). If the remains are determined to be Native 
American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage 
Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the 
most likely descendants, the descendants will make recommendations 
regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance 
with Section 15064.5€ of the CEQA Guidelines. 
During 
construction 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor;  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
San Mateo 
County Coroner 
Native American 
Heritage 
Commission 
NOISE 
MM NOI-1.1:  
The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction 
equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing 
sensitive receptors. Construction equipment shall be well-maintained 
and used judiciously to be as quiet as possible. Additionally, the 
applicant and contractor shall incorporate the following best 
management practices to reduce noise from construction activities on 
nearby sensitive land uses: 
Construction plan 
prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition 
permits. 
Project Applicant; 
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
64 of 1252

--- page 65 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 6 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
(A) The applicant and/or contractor shall prepare a detailed 
construction plan identifying the schedule for major noise-
generating construction activities. The construction plan shall 
identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent residential 
land uses so that construction activities can be scheduled to 
minimize noise disturbance. This construction plan shall be 
submitted to the Building Division subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee prior to the issuance of a demolition permit. 
(B) The applicant and/or contractor shall designate a “disturbance 
coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any 
complaints about construction noise and vibrations. The 
disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise 
complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures 
be implemented to reduce the noise impact. The applicant and/or 
contractor shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the 
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it in 
the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule. 
(C) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that 
will create the greatest distance between the construction-related 
noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors nearest the project site 
during all project construction.  
(D) Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and 
concrete saws within 35 feet of shared property lines shall be 
prohibited. 
 
Prior to issuance of 
a demolition 
permit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During 
construction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During 
construction 
 
 
 
During 
construction 
 
 
 
 
65 of 1252

--- page 66 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 7 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(E) Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with 
intake and exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and 
appropriate for the equipment. 
(F) Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines shall be strictly 
prohibited. 
(G) Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air 
compressors or portable power generators, as far as possible from 
sensitive receptors and property lines. If they must be located 
within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling 
(with barriers or enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall 
be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors.  
(H) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” 
air compressors and other stationary noise sources where 
technology exists. 
(I) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where 
they are not audible at existing residences surrounding the project 
site, the nearest of which are 90 feet to the southeast. 
 
During 
construction 
 
During 
construction 
 
During 
construction 
 
 
 
 
 
During 
construction 
 
During 
construction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66 of 1252

--- page 67 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 8 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Conditions of Approval 
AIR QUALITY  
• 
All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, 
and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day.  
• 
Construction grading activities shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems. 
• 
All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material to and from the 
project site shall be covered in accordance with Section 23114 of the California 
Vehicle Code. 
• 
All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed 
using wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry 
power sweeping is prohibited. 
• 
All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph). 
• 
All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon 
as possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless 
seeding or soil binders are used. 
• 
Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use 
or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California 
airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of 
Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for construction workers at 
all access points. 
• 
All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance 
with manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified 
mechanic and determined to be running in proper condition prior to operation. 
Prior to issuance 
of any demolition 
or construction 
permits. 
Project 
applicant/project 
contractors 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
67 of 1252

--- page 68 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 9 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
• 
Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
Lead Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take 
corrective action within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be 
visible to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. 
 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
Prior to issuance to of building permits for demolition, shoring, foundation, or site 
development (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall obtain a Site Development 
Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing trees with a 
diameter of six inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site Development Permit for tree 
removal shall authorize the applicant to replace on-site and street trees equivalent or 
greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by planting on-site and 
street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of both. 
 
Prior to issuance 
to of building 
permits for 
demolition, 
shoring, 
foundation, or site 
development 
(whichever occurs 
first) 
 
Project Applicant;  
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS 
For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the project applicant 
shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm Permit (General 
Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) for 
stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To obtain coverage, the 
project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources 
Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity NPDES 
Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public Works Department along with a 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP 
designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit. 
 
The applicant must obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction 
permit, paying the required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 of 1252

--- page 69 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 10 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
associated with the stormwater pollution prevention program in accordance with San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The fee amount will be based upon the City 
Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is made. 
In the event of the discovery of paleontological resources (fossils) on the project site or in 
the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction activities within 50 feet of 
the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified 
paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall 
evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written report documenting the find and 
recommending further courses of action, and submit a summary of findings to the Project 
Planner. Following City acceptance of the report and proposed recommendations, the 
applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing 
construction. 
During 
construction 
grading and/or 
excavation. 
Project Applicant 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
Prior to conducting earthwork activities at the project site, a Site Management Plan 
(SMP) and Health and Safety Plan (HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose of these 
documents will be to establish appropriate management practices for handling impacted 
soil, soil vapor and groundwater that may be encountered during construction activities. 
Based on the history of the project site, areas of impacted soil, soil vapor, and/or 
groundwater may be encountered during construction activities. The SMP shall be 
submitted to the County of San Mateo Health Service Agency (CSMHSA) for review, 
and CSMHSA approval shall be obtained prior to commencing earthwork activities at 
the project site. Proof of CSMHSA approval shall be provided to the City Community 
Development Department prior to issuance of an excavation permit. Prior to dewatering 
during project construction, a Discharge Plan shall be prepared and submitted to the 
satisfaction of the  Director of Public Works for approval. The Discharge Plan shall  
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
Project Applicant 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
County of San 
Mateo Health 
Service Agency 
Discharge Plan: 
Director of 
Public Works or 
69 of 1252

--- page 70 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 11 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
include the carbon treatment of groundwater on-site to remediate the presence of 
TPHd prior to discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains.  
the Director’s 
designee; 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY 
Construction best management practices (BMPs) shall be implemented for reducing the 
volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the maximum extent practicable during site 
excavation, grading, and construction. In accordance with the City’s standards, these 
BMPs will include, but will not be limited to:  
•
Avoid or minimize excavation and grading activities during wet weather,
unless the City approves a winter erosion control plan submitted by the
applicant.
•
Use effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during the
construction periods. Provide temporary cover of all disturbed surfaces to
help control erosion during construction.
•
Provide permanent cover as soon as is practical to stabilize the disturbed
surfaces after construction has been completed.
•
Protect existing storm drain inlets in the project area from sedimentation
with filter fabric fences gravel bags block and gravel filters.
•
Cover and stabilize stockpiled soil and materials with tarps, geotextile
fabric, hydroseeding and/or erosion control blankets
•
Install berms or silt fencing around stockpiled materials to prevent
stormwater runoff from transporting sediment off-site
The applicant shall comply with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) 
Construction permit requirements and prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan 
(SWPPP) (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.39).  
During project 
construction;  
Project Applicant 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
70 of 1252

--- page 71 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 12 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
The design groundwater level on-site is assumed to be 18 feet bgs. The project would 
excavate to a depth of approximately 25 feet to accommodate the proposed below-grade 
parking garage. Therefore, it is likely that the project would require dewatering of 
subsurface groundwater during construction. In accordance with the City’s Municipal 
Code (SMMC 7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the discharge of 
ground waters to the sanitary sewer if the source is deemed unacceptable by State and 
Federal authorities for discharge to surface waters of the United States, whether 
pretreated or untreated, and for which no reasonable alternative method of disposal is 
available. As required by MM HAZ-2.2 to be implemented during dewatering, carbon 
treatment of groundwater shall be required to remediate the presence of TPHd prior to 
discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains. Following the verification of the 
applicable local, state and/or federal approvals, a Discharge Plan will be approved and 
monitored by the Public Works Department. 
 
Discharge Plan 
approved prior to 
the issuance of 
any building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
The project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity 
Storm Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control 
Board (SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To 
obtain coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State 
Water Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction 
Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public Works 
Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a 
qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit. 
 
In accordance with the Director of Public Works Groundwater Discharge Policy, 
discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary sewer is only allowed on a 
temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater than six months. 
Discharges for longer than six months must obtain an NPDES permit from the State 
Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. No discharge to the storm drain is 
allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the 
Proof of permit 
provided prior to 
the issuance of 
any building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71 of 1252

--- page 72 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 13 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and 
must comply with the City’s discharge limits. 
 
The project shall implement site design and source control BMPs for minimizing the 
volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the extent practicable, per the MRP. These 
BMPs may include the following: 
 
• 
Disconnected downspouts that are directed into landscape areas; 
• 
Minimization of impervious surfaces and increased use of permeable pavement 
where feasible; 
• 
Location of all storm drain inlets to be stenciled with, “No Dumping! Flows to 
Bay” to discourage illegal dumping; 
• 
Location and design of trash enclosures (all shall be covered) and materials 
handling areas;  
• 
Use of effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during post-
construction periods. 
 
 
 
 
 
BMPs to be 
implemented 
during project 
construction 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
NOISE 
The applicant shall specify acoustical treatments in the building permit plans for the 
superstructure in compliance with State Building Codes, the City’s Noise Ordinance, and 
General Plan. The applicant shall also submit an acoustical analysis prepared by a 
professional acoustical consultant to ensure that the design incorporates controls to reduce 
interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower within the residential units and to 50 dBA 
Leq(1-hr) or lower within nonresidential interiors subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall conform with 
any special building construction techniques noted in the project’s acoustical analysis, 
which may include sound-rated windows and doors, sound-rated wall constructions, and 
acoustical caulking. The acoustical analysis and building permit plans shall specify the 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
72 of 1252

--- page 73 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 14 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
following noise insulation features to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less at 
residential interiors:  
 
• 
Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, for all 
residential units on the project site, so that windows can be kept closed at the 
occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and achieve the interior noise 
standards. 
• 
Preliminary calculations indicate that all residential units would require windows 
and doors with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced-air mechanical 
ventilation to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 
PUBLIC SERVICES 
The following Condition of Approval would be implemented by the project to ensure the 
project does not result in significant impacts to park facilities in the City: 
 
• 
The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-
lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) 
(SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the 
final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for 
the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee shall be paid prior to the release of the 
final map for recordation and the park impact fee shall be paid prior to the 
issuance of the building permit. If a project with an approved tentative map is 
issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, the applicant shall 
be subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior to the issuance of the 
first building superstructure permit. 
 
 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
73 of 1252

--- page 74 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 15 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS 
In order to meet the increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by 
this project, the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the 
average projected sanitary flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. 
 
The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to the project’s share of the increased 
amount of sewage generated by the project, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works 
Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee 
shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
SOURCE:  City of San Mateo. 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Addendum to the General Plan EIR and Downtown Area Specific Plan IS/MND. November 2022. 
74 of 1252

--- page 75 ---
LOCATION MAP 
 
PA-2020-025 
222 E. 4th AVE., PRE-APPLICATION 
 
Address(es):  
222 E. 4th Ave. 
 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
Parcel Number(s): 
034-176-050, -070, -080, -090 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site 
75 of 1252

--- page 76 ---
PLANNING APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
06/15/22
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE
76 of 1252

--- page 77 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
A-001
SHEET INDEX
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
Sheet Index
Sheet Number
Sheet Name
1-ARCHITECTURE
A-000
COVER SHEET
A-001
SHEET INDEX
A-002
GENERAL NOTES AND PROJECT INFORMATION
A-003A
EGRESS AND OCCUPANCY
A-003B
EGRESS AND OCCUPANCY
A-004
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS
A-005
PARKING DETAILS
A-101
SITE PLAN
A-102
CONTEXT IMAGES
A-103
SHADOW STUDIES
A-201
LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
A-202
LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
A-203
LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
A-204
LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
A-205
LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
A-206
LEVEL B1 FLOOR PLAN
A-207
LEVEL B2 FLOOR PLAN
A-210
RESIDENTIAL UNIT PLANS
A-220
DESIGN CONTEXT PLAN
A-231
LEVEL 1 VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
A-232
LEVEL B1 & B2 VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
A-301
RENDERING
A-302
RENDERING
A-303
RENDERING
A-304
RENDERING
A-305
RENDERING
A-306
MATERIALS
A-307
LINE OF SIGHT DIAGRAMS
A-311
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
A-312
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
A-321
BUILDING SECTIONS
A-322
BUILDING SECTIONS
A-401
ENLARGED ELEVATIONS AND SECTIONS
A-402
ENLARGED ELEVATIONS AND SECTIONS
2-CIVIL
C1.00
EXISTING CONDITIONS PLAN
C1.01
DEMOLITION PLAN
C2.00
PRELIMINARY STREET LAYOUT PLAN
C2.01
TYPICAL SECTIONS
C3.00
PRELIMINARY GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
C4.00
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C5.00
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL PLAN
C5.01
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL NOTES
C5.02
PRELIMINARY LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT REDUCION CALCULATIONS
C6.00
VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
C6.01
VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
C6.02
DELIVERY TRUCK ARRIVAL ANALYSIS
3-LANDSCAPE
L-002
TREE PROTECTION PLAN
L-003
TREE INVENTORY
L-004
TREE INVENTORY
L-005
TREE INVENTORY
L-006
TREE INVENTORY
L-100
LEVEL 1 LANDSCAPE PLAN
L-101
LEVEL 3 LANDSCAPE PLAN
L-102
LEVEL 4 LANDSCAPE PLAN
L-103
ROOFTOP LANDSCAPE PLAN
L-200
STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
L-201
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
L-202
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
L-203
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
L-204
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
L-205
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND FURNISHING IMAGES
L-300
SITE FURNISHING DETAILS
4-TRASH MANAGEMENT
T0.1
SITE PLAN LEVEL 1
T0.2
KEY PLAN TYPICAL UPPER LEVEL
T0.3
STAGING DETAILS OFFICE / CAFETERIA
T0.4
STAGING DETAILS RESIDENTIAL AND GROCERY
T1.0
OFFICE / CAFETERIA TRASH COLLECTION ROOM LAYOUT
T1.1
RESIDENTIAL TRASH CLOSET LAYOUT
T1.2
GROCERY TRASH ROOM PROTOTYPE
5-CONSTRUCTION
DEV-101
PRELIMINARY SITE LOGISTICS PLAN
6-ELECTRICAL
EP-1
SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC CALCS
EP-2
LIGHT FIXTURE CUT SHEETS
EP-3
LIGHT FIXTURE CUT SHEETS
TOTAL SHEETS: 73
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
77 of 1252

--- page 78 ---
BUILDING INFORMATION
PROJECT DIRECTORY
ABBREVIATIONS
OWNER
LANE PARTNERS
MARCUS GILMOUR
MARCUS@LANE-PARTNERS.COM
644 MENLO AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR
650-665-7085
MENLO PARK, CA 94025
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
COMPASS SOLUTIONS
JASON SCHLUTT
JSCHLUTT@COMPASSSOLUTIONSINC.COM
408-718-9614
ARCHITECT
KORTH SUNSERI HAGEY ARCHITECTS
TED KORTH
TKORTH@KSHA.COM
349 SUTTER ST
415-954-1960 X 230
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94108
JORDAN BLUM
JBLUM@KSHA.COM
415-954-1960 X 234
GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER
CORNERSTONE EARTH GROUP
NICHOLAS DEVLIN
NDEVLIN@CORNERSTONEEARTH.COM
1259 OAKMEAD PARKWAY
408-245-4600
SUNNYVALE, CA 94085
CIVIL ENGINEER
KIER AND WRIGHT
MARK KNUDSEN
MKNUDSEN@KIERWRIGHT.COM
3350 SCOTT BLVD, BLDG 22
408-727-6665
SANTA CLARA, CA 95054
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
ANDREA COCHRAN LANDSCAPE ARCH EMILY RYLANDER
EMILY@ACOCHRAN.COM
2325 THIRD STREET, #210
415-503-0060
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94107
TRASH MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
SCOTT BROWN
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
415-292-5401
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CA 94608
1. ALL WORK SHALL CONFORM TO THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS WHICH INCLUDE THE 
OWNER/CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT, THE DRAWINGS, AND ALL ADDENDA AND MODIFICATIONS 
ISSUED BY THE ARCHITECT.
2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW ALL DOCUMENTS AND VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND FIELD 
CONDITIONS AND CONFIRM THAT WORK IS BUILDABLE AS SHOWN. ANY CONFLICTS OR 
OMISSIONS SHALL BE IMMEDIATELY REPORTED TO THE ARCHITECT FOR CLARIFICATION PRIOR 
TO THE PERFORMANCE OF ANY WORK IN QUESTION.
3. IN CASE OF CONFLICT BETWEEN ARCHITECT'S AND ENGINEER'S DRAWINGS IN LOCATING 
MATERIALS AND/OR EQUIPMENT, THE ARCHITECT'S DRAWINGS SHALL GOVERN.
4. "ALIGN" SHALL MEAN TO ACCURATELY LOCATE FINISH SURFACES IN THE SAME PLANE.
5. "TYPICAL" OR "TYP" SHALL MEAN THAT THE CONDITION IS REPRESENTATIVE FOR SIMILAR 
CONDITIONS THROUGHOUT. DETAILS ARE USUALLY KEYED AND NOTED "TYP" ONLY ONCE, WHEN 
THEY FIRST OCCUR.
6. "SIMILAR" OR "SIM" MEANS COMPARABLE CHARACTERISTICS FOR THE CONDITIONS NOTED. 
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND ORIENTATION ON PLANS AND ELEVATIONS.
7. WORK AREAS TO REMAIN SECURE AND LOCKABLE DURING CONSTRUCTION.  CONTRACTOR 
SHALL COORDINATE WITH LANDLORD AND TENANT TO ENSURE SECURITY.
8. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN ALL PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS AND COMPLY WITH ALL 
CODES, LAWS, ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF ALL PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (FEDERAL, 
STATE OR LOCAL) GOVERNING THE WORK. THE MOST STRINGENT SHALL APPLY.
9. ALL WORK NOTED "BY OTHERS" OR "N.I.C." SHALL BE PROVIDED BY THE OWNER OR TENANT 
UNDER SEPARATE CONTRACT. INCLUDE SCHEDULE REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS "OTHER" WORK IN 
THE CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS SCHEDULE AND COORDINATE AS REQUIRED TO ASSURE 
ORDERLY SEQUENCE OF INSTALLATION.
10. DO NOT SCALE THE DRAWINGS.
11. CONTRACTOR SHALL REPAIR OR REPLACE ALL LANDSCAPE PLANTING AND IRRIGATION 
DAMAGED THROUGH THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION, REPLACE CONTAMINATED OR 
COMPACTED SOILS, PROTECT ALL TREES TO REMAIN WITH RIGID METAL FENCING, AND REPAIR 
ALL DAMAGED PAVING SURFACES IN KIND. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLE FOR THE HEALTH AND 
PROTECTION OF ALL PLANTS WITHIN THE PROJECT FENCE LINE.
12. ALL DIMENSIONS SHALL BE TO THE FACE OF FINISH UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
13. DESIGN OF AUTOMATED SPRINKLER SYSTEM, SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM, AND FIRE ALARM & 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEM SHALL BE PER CODE. SEE MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND 
FIRE PROTECTION DRAWINGS AND DOCUMENTS.
14. THE BUILDING FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM SHALL BE MAINTAINED AND OPERATIONAL AT ALL 
TIMES DURING CONSTRUCTION ONCE COMPLETED. WHEN RENOVATIONS REQUIRE 
MODIFICATION OF A PORTION OF A FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM, THE REMAINDER OF THE SYSTEM 
SHALL BE KEPT IN SERVICE. WHEN IT IS NECESSARY TO SHUT DOWN THE ENTIRE SYSTEM, A FIRE 
WATCH SHALL BE KEPT ON SITE UNTIL THE SYSTEM IS RETURNED TO SERVICE IN COMPLIANCE 
WITH CFC SECTION 3304.5 & NFPA 241 SECTION 10.8.
15. EXIT SIGNS, EMERGENCY LIGHTING, ADDRESS POSTING, FIRE LANE MARKING, FIRE 
EXTINGUISHERS AND KNOX BOX LOCATION(S) TO BE FIELD VERIFIED BY FIRE INSPECTOR.
SCOPE OF WORK
DEMOLISH THE EXISTING BUILDING AT 222 E. 4TH AVENUE BETWEEN ELLSWORTH AVENUE AND B 
STREET. CONSTRUCT A NEW FIVE-STORY BUILDING WITH TWO LEVELS OF BELOW-GRADE PARKING. 
THE BUILDING HOUSES 104,554 SF OF OFFICE SPACE, 17,658 SF OF RETAIL SPACE, AND 8,997 SF OF 
RESIDENTIAL SPACE (INCLUDING 10 RESIDENTIAL UNITS). THE PARKING GARAGE INCLUDES 12,392 SF 
ABOVE GRADE AND 89,519 SF BELOW GRADE, AND PROVIDES A TOTAL OF 221 PHYSICAL PARKING 
SPACES. THERE ARE TWO OUTDOOR TERRACES AT LEVEL 3, TWO TERRACES AT LEVEL 4, AND A ROOF 
DECK TOTALING 14,821 SF. THERE IS ALSO 1,515 SF OF COMMON USABLE OPEN SPACE ON THE ROOF 
LEVEL FOR THE RESIDENTIAL TENANTS. 
A.C.
ASPHALTIC CONCRETE
ACCD'G. ACCORDING
ACOUS.
ACOUSTICAL
A.D.
AREA DRAIN
ADD'L
ADDITIONAL
ADJ.
ASJACENT
A.F.F.
ABOVE FINISH FLOOR
ALUM.
ALUMINUM
ANOD.
ANODIZED
BD.
BOARD
BDLG.
BUILDING
BLK'G
BLOCKING
B.O.
BOTTOM OF
B.U.
BUILT UP
CAB.
CABINET
CER.
CERAMIC
CLG.
CEILING
CLR.
CLEAR
C.M.U.
CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
C.O.
CLEANOUT
COL.
COLUMN
CONC.
CONCRETE
COND.
CONDITION
CONTR.
CONTRACTOR
CPT.
CARPET
C.T.
CERAMIC TILE
C.W.
COLD WATER
DET.
DETAIL
D.F.
DOUGLAS FIR
DIA.
DIAMETER
DIM.
DIMENSION
D.S.
DOWNSPOUT
DWG.
DRAWING
EA
EACH
ELEC.
ELECTRICAL OR ELECTRIC
ELEV.
ELEVATOR
ENCL.
ENCLOSURE
EQ.
EQUAL
(E)
EXISTING
EXH.
EXHAUST
EXT.
EXTERIOR
F.A.
FIRE ALARM PULL STATION
FDN.
FOUNDATION
FIN.
FINISH
F.D.
FLOOR DRAIN
FLUOR.
FLUORESCENT
F.O.
FACE OF
F.O.W.
FACE OF WALL
F.R.
FIRE RATED
FRMG.
FRAMING
FSTNRS. FASTENERS
FTG.
FOOTING
GA.
GAUGE
GALV.
GALVANIZED
GDN.
GARDEN
GL.
GLASS
G.S.M.
GALVANIZED SHEET METAL
GYP. BD. GYPSUM BOARD
H.C.
HANDICAP
HDR.
HEADER
HDWR.
HARDWARE
HDWD.
HARDWOOD
H.M.
HOLOW METAL
HT.
HEIGHT
H.W.
HOT WATER
INSUL.
INSULATION
JT.
JOINT
LAM.
LAMINATE
L.O.
LINE OF
MAT.
MATERIAL
MAX.
MAXIMUM
MECH.
MECHANICAL
MEMB.
MEMBRANE
MFR.
MANUFACTURER
MFY.
MODIFY
MIN.
MINIMUM
MTL.
METAL
N.I.C.
NOT IN CONTRACT
N.T.S.
NOT TO SCALE
(N)
NEW
O.C.
ON CENTER
O.D.
OVERFLOW DRAIN
OPP.
OPPOSITE
P.G.
PAINT GRADE
PLAS.
PLASTIC
P-LAM.
PLASTIC LAMINATE
PLY.
PLYWOOD
POL.
POLISHED
P.T.
PRESSURE TREATED
PTD.
PAINTED
PTN.
PARTITION
R.
RADIUS
R.D.
ROOF DRAIN
RREINF. REINFORCED
REQ'D.
REQUIRED
R.O.
ROUGH OPENING
RM.
ROOM
S.C.D.
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
S.E.D.
SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
S.L.D.
SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
S.M.D
SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
S.P.D.
SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS
S.S.D.
SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
SCHED.
SCHEDULE
S.G.
STAIN GRADE
S.S.
STAINLESS STEEL
SIM.
SIMILAR
SPEC.
SPECIFICATIONS
STL.
STEEL
STRUCT. STRUCTURAL
TEMP.
TEMPERED
THK.
THICK
TRANS.
TRANSPARENT
T.O.
TOP OF
T.O.P.
TOP OF PLATE
T.S.
TOP OF STEEL
T.W.
TOP OF WALL
TYP.
TYPICAL
U.O.N.
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
V.I.F.
VERIFY IN FIELD
WD.
WOOD
PLANNING INFORMATION
BIKE PARKING SUMMARY
FLOOR AREA*
GENERAL NOTES
VICINITY MAP
1.SITE
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBERS
034-176-050, 034-176-070, 034-176-080, 034-176-090
ZONING
CBD/R
DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE
PARKING
LIMITED PARKING ZONE
SITE AREA
49,478 SF
2.BUILDING HEIGHT
ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT
55'-0" MAX*
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT
72'-0"
3.PARCEL COVERAGE AND OPEN SPACE
ALLOWABLE PARCEL COVERAGE
100%
PROPOSED PARCEL COVERAGE
SEE "PARCEL COVERAGE"
REQUIRED OPEN SPACE
1,317 SF
1% OF FAR AREA EXCLUDING RESIDENTIAL AND PARKING)
PROPOSED OPEN SPACE
1,455 SF
REQUIRED COMMON USABLE OPEN SPACE
120 SF PER UNIT = 1,200 SF
PROPOSED COMMON USABLE OPEN SPACE
1,515 SF
4.FLOOR AREA
MAX F.A.R.
3.0
ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA
148,434 SF
PROPOSED FLOOR AREA
SEE "FLOOR AREA"
5. PARKING
TOTAL
EVCS-READY
EVCS
OFFICE REQUIRED
171
18
9
RETAIL REQUIRED
37
4
2
TOTAL REQUIRED
208
22
11
TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED
SEE "PARKING SUMMARY"
6. BIKE PARKING
SHORT TERM
LONG TERM
TOTAL
TOTAL
OFFICE REQUIRED
5 
10
15
RETAIL REQUIRED
9
1
10
RESIDENTIAL REQUIRED
1
10
11
TOTAL REQUIRED
15
21
36
TOTAL BIKE PARKING PROVIDED
SEE "BIKE PARKING SUMMARY"
*AN ADDITIONAL 33' OR 3 STORIES IS ALLOWED PER GOVERNMENT CODE § 65915(d)(2)(D)
* PER SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 27.04.200: 
1. 
FLOOR AREA IS MEASURED FROM THE EXTERIOR FAÇADE OF THE BUILDING’S WALL PLANES, FROM THE CENTERLINE OF PARTY WALLS, OR 
FROM A LINE THREE FEET FROM THE EDGE OF AN EAVE, WHICHEVER PRODUCES THE LARGEST FLOOR AREA. STORIES EXCEEDING 15 FEET IN 
HEIGHT SHALL BE COUNTED AS ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA, WITH THE EXCEPTION THAT GROUND FLOOR RETAIL MAY BE UP TO 18 FEET IN 
HEIGHT MEASURED FROM FIRST FINISH FLOOR TO SECOND FINISH FLOOR BEFORE BEING COUNTED AS ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA. FLOOR 
AREA ALSO INCLUDES ALL ACCESSORY STRUCTURES ON THE SITE AND BASEMENTS THAT MEET THE DEFINITION IN SUBSECTION (C)(5).
2. 
EXCLUSIONS. THE FOLLOWING ARE NOT COUNTED AS FLOOR AREA:
a. 
COVERED OR OPEN COURTS, AND ATRIUMS, ON THE GROUND FLOOR, PROVIDED THAT THE AREA IS NOT USED AS DWELLING, OFFICE, 
RETAILING, OR REQUIRED ACCESS;
b. 
IN MULTIPLE-LEVEL BUILDINGS, COVERED COURTS, IF THE RETAILING USES ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. MULTIPLE-LEVEL STAIRWELLS 
AND ELEVATORS SHALL BE COUNTED ONLY AS GROUND FLOOR AREA;
c. 
COVERED WALKWAYS AND BALCONIES;
d. 
FIRST FLOORS, MECHANICAL AREAS, PENTHOUSE, AND TOP FLOORS ARE COUNTED ONLY ONCE AS FLOOR AREA, REGARDLESS OF 
HEIGHT;
e. 
BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES;
f. 
FLOOR AREA DESIGNATED FOR DAY CARE CENTERS ACCESSORY TO AND INTENDED TO SERVE A MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, OFFICE 
OR MANUFACTURING USE. SUCH FLOOR AREA MAY BE LOCATED WITHIN THE PRIMARY STRUCTURE OR MAY BE IN A FREESTANDING 
STRUCTURE ACCESSORY TO THE PRIMARY STRUCTURE;
g. 
COVERED PARKING FOR OFFICE USE SHALL NOT BE COUNTED AS FLOOR AREA IN AREAS DELINEATED FOR EXCLUSION WITHIN AN 
ADOPTED PLAN, SUCH AS THE MARINER’S ISLAND SPECIFIC PLAN OR THE BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN. 
3. 
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING. FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS AS CONTAINED IN 
CHAPTER 27.64, SHALL BE BASED ON PHYSICAL FLOOR SPACE AND SHALL NOT INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING:
a. 
STORAGE AREAS EXCEPT FOR AREAS LOCATED WITHIN SELLING OR WORKING SPACE SUCH AS COUNTERS, RACKS, AND CLOSETS;
b. 
UTILITY AREAS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ELEVATOR SHAFTS, TELEPHONE SWITCHING ROOMS, STAIRWELLS, REST ROOMS, AND 
HEATING AND COOLING ROOMS;
c. 
ACCESSORY FACILITIES TO BE USED ONLY BY EMPLOYEES OF THE PRINCIPAL USES;
d. 
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES, INCLUDING AISLES, RAMPS, AND MANEUVERING SPACE;
e. 
BASEMENT, ATTIC, OR MEZZANINE FLOOR AREA OTHER THAN AREA DEVOTED TO RETAILING ACTIVITIES, TO THE PRODUCTION OF 
PROCESSING OF GOODS, OR TO BUSINESS OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICES;
f. 
FLOOR AREA DESIGNATED FOR DAY CARE CENTERS ACCESSORY TO AND INTENDED TO SERVE A MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, OFFICE 
OR MANUFACTURING USE. SUCH FLOOR AREA MAY BE LOCATED WITHIN THE PRIMARY STRUCTURE OR MAY BE IN A FREESTANDING 
STRUCTURE ACCESSORY TO THE PRIMARY STRUCTURE;
g. 
FLOOR AREA COMPUTED FOR BUILDING VOLUME. ADDITIONAL PARKING SHALL BE REQUIRED IN THE EVENT OF CHANGE OF EXCLUDED 
FLOOR AREAS INTO USES GENERATING PARKING.
PARKING SUMMARY
1.CONSTRUCTION TYPE (CBC CH. 6)
TYPE 1B
2.USE AND OCCUPANCY (CBC CH. 3)
A-3, B, M, R-2, S-2 
3.ALLOWABLE HEIGHT (CBC TABLE 504.3+4)
180' / 12 STORIES (A-3)
TABULATED MAX HEIGHT: 
180' / 12 STORIES (B) 
(NO HEIGHT INCREASE REQURIED)
180' / 12 STORIES (M)
180' / 12 STORIES (R-2)
180' / 12 STORIES (S-2)
4.ALLOWABLE AREA  (CBC TABLE 506.2)
UL (A-3)
TABULATED MAX AREA: 
UL (B)
(NO AREA INCREASE REQUIRED)
UL (M)
UL (R-2)
237,000 SF (S-2) - MOST RESTRICTIVE
5.ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA (CBC SEC 506)
UNLIMITED
PER CBC 503.1.4, THE AREA OF OCCUPIED ROOFS SHALL NOT BE INCLUDED IN THE BUILDING AREA AS REGULATED BY SECTION 506. 
PER CBC 506.1.3, LEVELS B1 AND B2 ARE CONSIDERED BASEMENTS. THE CUMULATIVE AREA OF THE TWO BASEMENT LEVELS ARE LESS THAN THE 
ALLOWABLE AREA FOR A SINGLE STORY GROUP S-2 OCCUPANCY AND THEREFORE NEED NOT BE INCLUDED IN THE TOTAL ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA OF 
A BUILDING.  
6.PROPOSED HEIGHT AND GROSS FLOOR AREA (CBC CHAPTER 2)
STORIES ABOVE GRADE:
5 STORIES
MAXIMUM HEIGHT ABOVE GRADE:
72'-0"
GROSS FLOOR AREA:
7.RATING REQUIREMENTS (CBC TABLE 601)
PRIMARY STRUCTURAL FRAME:
2 HOURS
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS:
2 HOURS
INTERIOR BEARING WALLS:
2 HOURS
EXTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS:
0 HOURS
INTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS:
0 HOURS
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION:
2 HOURS
ROOF CONSTRUCTION:
2 HOURS
SHAFT ENCLOSURES
2 HOURS
PER CBC 713.4, SHAFT ENCLOSURES SHALL HAVE A FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING OF NOT LESS THAN 2 HOURS WHERE CONNECTING FOUR STORIES OR 
MORE, AND NOT LESS THAN 1 HOUR WHERE CONNECTING LESS THAN FOUR STORIES. THE NUMBER OF STORIES CONNECTED BY THE SHAFT 
ENCLOSURE SHALL INCLUDE ANY BASEMENTS BUT NOT ANY MEZZANINES. SHAFT ENCLOSURES SHALL HAVE A FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING NOT LESS 
THAN THE FLOOR ASSEMBLY PENETRATED, BUT NEED NOT EXCEED 2 HOURS.
8.REQUIRED SEPARATIONS (CBC CH. 5)
OCCUPANCY SEPARATION (LEVELS B2-4)
0 HOURS
PER CBC 508.3.2, THE PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT AND AREA FALLS WITHIN THE ALLOWABLE LIMITS OF THE MOST RESTRICTIVE USE, SO ALL 
OCCUPANCIES CAN BE CONSIDERED NONSEPARATED OCCUPANCIES. PER CBC 508.3.3, NO SEPARATION IS REQUIRED BETWEEN NONSEPARATED 
OCCUPANCIES. 
SEPARATIONS WALLS (LEVEL 5)
1 HOUR
PER CBC 420.2, WALLS SEPARATING DWELLING UNITS IN THE SAME BUILDING SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED AS FIRE PARTITIONS PER CBC 708.
9.FIRE PROTECTION (CBC CH. 9)
THIS BUILDING IS PROVIDED WITH AN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH CBC 903.
THIS BUILDING IS PROVIDED WITH AN EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH CBC 907.
PARCEL COVERAGE
THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLETING THE CONSTRUCTION 
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS PROJECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING FEDERAL, STATE AND 
LOCAL CODES, INCLUDING THEIR MOST RECENT AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ADOPTS THE FOLLOWING CODES, ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS 
(INCLUDING ERRATA AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BELOW CODES):
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE (CALGREEN)
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (WITH LOCAL AMENDMENTS)
2019 STATE OF CALIFORNIA TITLE 24 ENERGY REGULATIONS
APPLICABLE CODES
• EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE - AN EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE SYSTEM MAY BE 
REQUIRED FOR THIS BUILDING.  TESTING SHOULD OCCUR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION DUE TO CIRCUIT PROTECTION 
REQUIREMENTS THAT WILL AFFECT BUILDING DESIGN. A THIRD PARTY TESTING GRID REPORT SHALL BE PROVIDED 
TO THE SAN MATEO CONSOLIDATED FIRE DEPARTMENT BEFORE THE FINAL INSPECTION.  (FIRE)
• BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS - THE INSTALLATION OR USE OF BARRICADES, FENCES, OR 
GATES ACROSS EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS ROADS DURING CONSTRUCTION SHALL HAVE PRIOR APPROVAL OF 
THE SAN MATEO CONSOLIDATED FIRE CHIEF, OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE.  (FIRE)
• FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - THE APPLICANT SHALL INSTALL A FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM THROUGHOUT THE SINGLE-
FAMILY DWELLING IN ACCORDANCE WITH NFPA 13D OR THE CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE. FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS 
SHALL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL. THE FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY THE 
FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A FIRE SPRINKLER PERMIT.  (FIRE)
• REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT - PROVIDE A KEY SWITCH TO DISCONNECT (SHUNT) THE BUILDING ELECTRICAL 
POWER BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.  CONTACT THE BUREAU OF FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY TO 
COORDINATE THE EXACT LOCATION FOR SUCH DEVICES. THE KEY SWITCH LOCATION SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE 
FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL PRIOR TO THE FINAL INSPECTION. (FIRE)
• CODE CONFORMANCE - THE APPLICANT SHALL INDICATE ON ALL BUILDING PERMIT PLANS THAT ALL CONSTRUCTION 
SHALL MEET CURRENT CODE STANDARDS AT THE TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT SUBMITTAL. THE BUILDING PERMIT 
PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE PRIOR TO ISSUANCE 
OF THE BUILDING PERMIT. (FIRE)
• WATER SUPPLY - ALL CITY/DISTRICT OWNED WATER SYSTEMS AND ON-SITE WATER SYSTEMS SHALL BE LOOPED 
WITH TWO POINTS OF CONNECTION TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE CITY ENGINEER. THEY SHALL MEET THE 
REQUIREMENTS OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES, CITY PUBLIC WORKS AND THE FIRE MARSHAL. THE 
WATER SUPPLY INFORMATION SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE FOR REVIEW AND 
APPROVAL PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF THE BUILDING PERMIT. (FIRE)
• DEMOLITION - BUILDING(S) UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SHALL COMPLY WITH THE CALIFORNIA FIRE 
CODE CH. 33 DURING ALL PHASES OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT. (FIRE)
• EGRESS - ADJACENT BUILDINGS/PROPERTIES SHALL NOT HAVE THEIR REQUIRED EGRESS RESTRICTED OR 
COMPROMISED AT ANY TIME DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT.  (FIRE)
• SUBMITTALS - THE APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT ALL FIRE PLANS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SUPERSTRUCTURE 
BUILDING PERMIT PLANS. THE PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER 
DESIGNEE PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF THE SUPERSTRUCTURE BUILDING PERMIT PLANS.  (FIRE)
• STANDPIPES - IN BUILDINGS REQUIRED TO HAVE STANDPIPES BY SECTION 905.3.1, NOT LESS THAN ONE STANDPIPE 
SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR USE DURING CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION.  (FIRE)
• FIRE HYDRANTS - THE APPLICANT SHALL INSTALL ______ PUBLIC/PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANT(S) SPACED AS PER THE 
SMC FIRE ORDINANCE.  ALL FIRE HYDRANTS USED FOR FIRE FLOW FOR THE PROJECT SITE SHALL BE UPGRADED TO 
A CLOW MODEL 960 OR EQUIVALENT CONSISTING OF (2) 2½ INCH AND (1) 4½ INCH OUTLET.  EACH HYDRANT SHALL BE 
CAPABLE OF PROVIDING A MINIMUM FIRE FLOW OF 1500 GPM AT 20 PSI RESIDUAL PRESSURE.  WATER SUPPLY FOR 
FIRE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED TO BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH WATER PURVEYOR’S SPECIFICATIONS.  THE 
WATER SUPPLY SHALL BE TESTED, FLUSHED AND APPROVED OPERABLE PRIOR TO ANY COMBUSTIBLE 
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS BEING PLACED ON THE SITE.  STAGED CONSTRUCTION SHALL INSURE THAT THE 
NECESSARY WATER SUPPLY IS MAINTAINED FROM STAGE TO STAGE IN THE CONSTRUCTION PLANNING. THE LETTER 
SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL BEFORE THE 
ISSUANCE OF A FIRE SPRINKLER PERMIT. (FIRE)
• FIRE FLOW - THE APPLICANT SHALL PROVIDE A FIRE FLOW OF _____ GPM FOR _____ HOURS. THE FIRE FLOW 
INFORMATION SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL 
PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF THE BUILDING PERMIT. (FIRE)
• ADDRESS NUMBERS - THE APPLICANT SHALL POST TEMPORARY ADDRESS NUMBERS ON EACH BUILDING AT THE 
PROJECT SITE THAT MUST BE EASILY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET OR FIRE ACCESS ROAD DURING ALL PHASES OF 
CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT.   (FIRE)
• FIRE CONTROL ROOM - AN APPROVED FIRE CONTROL ROOM SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR THIS BUILDING.  THERE SHALL 
BE DIRECT ACCESS TO THE ROOM DIRECTLY FROM THE EXTERIOR OF THE BUILDING.  REFER TO LOCAL ORDINANCE 
FOR DETAILS. THE FIRE CONTROL ROOM SHALL BE INDICATED ON THE BUILDING PERMIT SET OF PLANS SUBMITTED 
TO THE FIRE MARSHAL OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF THE 
BUILDING PERMIT. (FIRE)
FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTES
RESIDENTIAL UNIT SUMMARY
ISSUE HISTORY
DATE
DESCRIPTION
05/05/20
PRE-APPLICATION SET
10/21/20
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
03/19/21
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
10/15/21
PLANNING APPLICATION SET
02/04/22
PLANNING APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
04/22/22
PLANNING APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
06/15/22
PLANNING APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL SET
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Ellsworth Avenue
B Street
San Mateo Drive
Claremont Street
Railroad Avenue
4th Avenue
3rd Avenue
5th Avenue
6th Avenue
2nd Avenue
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
As indicated
A-002
GENERAL NOTES AND PROJECT
INFORMATION
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
FAR Floor Area
Level
Area
OFFICE
LEVEL 1
5,258 SF
LEVEL 2
39,968 SF
LEVEL 3
29,995 SF
LEVEL 4
29,332 SF
104,554 SF
PARKING
LEVEL 1
12,392 SF
12,392 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 1
1,240 SF
LEVEL 5
7,757 SF
8,997 SF
RETAIL
LEVEL 1
17,658 SF
17,658 SF
SHARED (ALL USES)
LEVEL 1
4,296 SF
LEVEL 5
4,637 SF
8,932 SF
TOTAL FAR AREA
152,533 SF
Gross Floor Area (Per CBC Ch. 2)
Level
Area
LEVEL 5
12,205 SF
LEVEL 4
30,684 SF
LEVEL 3
31,087 SF
LEVEL 2
40,841 SF
LEVEL 1
39,380 SF
TOTAL
154,196 SF
1-BED
501
UNIT 1
568 SF
502
UNIT 2
568 SF
503
UNIT 3
568 SF
504
UNIT 4
568 SF
505
UNIT 5
597 SF
508
UNIT 8
597 SF
509
UNIT 9
568 SF
510
UNIT 10
568 SF
1-BED: 8
STUDIO
506
UNIT 6
439 SF
507
UNIT 7
439 SF
STUDIO: 2
TOTAL UNITS: 10
Building Footprint
Parcel Coverage
40,844 SF
83%
Bike Parking Schedule
Count
COMMERCIAL - LONG TERM
10
COMMERCIAL - SHORT TERM
5
RESIDENTIAL - LONG TERM
10
RESIDENTIAL - SHORT TERM
1
RETAIL - LONG TERM
1
RETAIL - SHORT TERM
14
TOTAL
41
(575 SF AVERAGE)
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Planning Resubmittal
H
07/27/22 Planning Resubmittal
Office Parking Schedule
Count
Dimensions
LEVEL 1
ACCESSIBLE STALL - VAN
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
COMPACT STALL
3
8'-0" x 17'-0"
STANDARD STALL
16
8'-6" x 18'-0"
LEVEL B1
ACCESSIBLE STALL - STANDARD
5
9'-0" x 18'-0"
ACCESSIBLE STALL - VAN
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
COMPACT STALL
14
8'-0" x 17'-0"
EVCS - ACCESSIBLE
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
EVCS - AMBULATORY
1
10'-0" x 18'-0"
EVCS - VAN ACCESSIBLE
1
12'-0" x 18'-0"
STANDARD STALL
31
8'-6" x 18'-0"
LEVEL B2
COMPACT STALL
33
8'-0" x 17'-0"
EVCS - STANDARD
24
8'-6" x 18'-0"
STANDARD STALL
53
8'-6" x 18'-0"
TOTAL
184
Retail Parking Schedule
Count
Dimensions
LEVEL B1
RETAIL - ACCESSIBLE STALL - STANDARD
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
RETAIL - ACCESSIBLE STALL - VAN
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
RETAIL - COMPACT STALL
12
8'-0" x 17'-0"
RETAIL - EVCS - ACCESSIBLE
1
9'-0" x 18'-0"
RETAIL - EVCS - STANDARD
4
8'-6" x 18'-0"
RETAIL - EVCS - VAN ACCESSIBLE
1
12'-0" x 18'-0"
RETAIL - STANDARD STALL
17
8'-6" x 18'-0"
TOTAL
37
H
H
H
78 of 1252

--- page 79 ---
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
DW
D
EGRESS SUMMARY
EGRESS LEGEND
PATH OF TRAVEL
POINT OF DECISION
(END OF COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL)
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET WITH MINIMUM 4A-40B:C 
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
FE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER (MINIMUM 4A-40B:C)
FIRE INSPECTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION AT TIME OF 
ROUGH INSPECTION
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
CBC TABLE 1006.3.1 NUMBER OF EXITS PER STORY
TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS SHALL BE PROVIDED FROM ANY STORY 
WITH AN OCCUPANT LOAD GREATER THAN 1 AND LESS THAN 500. THREE EXITS OR 
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS SHALL BE PROVIDED FROM ANY SPACE WITH AN 
OCCUPANT LOAD GREATER THAN 500 AND LESS THAN 1,000. 
CBC TABLE 1006.2.1 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL
MAX ALLOWABLE (SPRINKLERED):
75' FOR GROUP "A-3" AND "M" OCCUPANCIES
100' FOR GROUP "B" OCCUPANCY
125' FOR GROUP "R-2" OCCUPANCY
100' FOR GROUP "S-2" OCCUPANCY
CBC TABLE 1017.2 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
MAX ALLOWABLE (SPRINKLERED):
250' FOR GROUP "A-3" AND "M" OCCUPANCIES
300' FOR GROUP "B" OCCUPANCY
250' FOR GROUP "R-2" OCCUPANCY
400' FOR GROUP "S-2" OCCUPANCY
CBC 1005 MEANS OF EGRESS SIZING
IN BUILDINGS EQUIPPED WITH AN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM AND AN 
EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM:
1. THE CAPACITY OF EGRESS STAIRWAYS = 0.2" PER OCCUPANT SERVED*
2. THE CAPACITY OF ALL OTHER EGRESS COMPONENTS = 0.15" PER OCCUPANT 
SERVED**
* PER CBC 1020.2 AND 1024.2, THE MINIMUM WIDTH OF ALL CORRIDORS AND EXIT PASSAGEWAYS SHALL BE 44". PER CBC 
1010.1.1, ALL MEANS OF EGRESS DOORS SHALL PROVIDE A MINIMUM CLEAR OPENING OF 32" AND A MAXIMUM DOOR LEAF WIDTH 
OF 48". ALL MEANS OF EGRESS DOORS SHALL PROVIDE A MINIMUM CLEAR OPENING HEIGHT OF 80". 
** PER CBC 1011.2, THE MINIMUM WIDTH OF ALL EGRESS STAIRWAYS SHALL BE 44".
CBC TABLE 1004.5
MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
26 SF
1 OCCUPANTS
JANITOR
211
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
293 SF
2 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #1
204
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
266 SF
1 OCCUPANTS
ELECTRICAL
202
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
297 SF
2 OCCUPANTS
WOMEN
205
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
302 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
MEN
206
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
269 SF
2 OCCUPANTS
WOMEN
207
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
269 SF
2 OCCUPANTS
MEN
208
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
436 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #3
209
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
436 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #2
210
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
31,017 SF
207 OCCUPANTS
OFFICE
201
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
MAX EATD = 216'
139' - 6"
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
35.6"
40"
210
237
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
35.6"
40"
209
237
7,254 SF
484 OCCUPANTS
20% A-OCC
ALLOWANCE
215
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3*
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
35.6"
40"
204
237
STAIR #3: 237 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 47.4"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #2: 237 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 47.4"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #1: 237 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 47.4"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
1/3 DIAGONAL = 97'-6"
292' - 5"
484 SF
4 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #3
309
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
484 SF
4 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #2
310
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
22,621 SF
151 OCCUPANTS
OFFICE
301
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
4,118 SF
275 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE
313
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3
1,912 SF
128 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE
312
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3
EATD = 78'
MAX EATD = 196'
EATD = 197'
105' - 2"
199' - 7"
139' - 4"
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
38.6"
40"
310
257
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
27.3"
40"
309
182
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
20.9"
40"
313A
139
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
9.6"
40"
312A
64
*119+138+64
SEE 1/-
5,778 SF
386 OCCUPANTS
20% A-OCC
ALLOWANCE
315
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3*
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
48.2"
70"
304
321
STAIR #3: 321 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 64.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #2: 321 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 64.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #1: 321 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 64.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
20.7"
40"
313B
138
1/3 DIAGONAL = 81'-4"
244' - 0"
1/3 DIAGONAL = 45'-0"
135' - 1"
1/3 DIAGONAL = 86'-5"
259' - 6"
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
9.6"
40"
312B
64
483 SF
4 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #3
410
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
484 SF
4 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #2
409
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
382 SF
26 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE
413
@ 15 SF/OCC
B
MAX EATD = 196'
148' - 5"
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
24.9"
40"
410
166
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
24.9"
40"
409
166
SEE 1/-
4,391 SF
293 OCCUPANTS
20% A-OCC
ALLOWANCE
415
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3*
255 SF
2 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #5
416
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
24.9"
40"
404
166
STAIR #3: 166 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 33.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #2: 166 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 33.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #1: 166 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 33.2"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
24.3"
34"
416
162
23,351 SF
156 OCCUPANTS
OFFICE
543
@ 150 SF/OCC
B
1/3 DIAGONAL = 85'-6"
256' - 7"
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 10
510
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 9
509
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
597 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 8
508
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
439 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 7
507
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
470 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
STAIR #1
513
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
123 SF
1 OCCUPANTS
TRASH
521
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
1,439 SF
96 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE
519
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3
1,479 SF
8 OCCUPANTS
CORRIDOR
511
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
439 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 6
506
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
597 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 5
505
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 4
504
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 3
503
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 2
502
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
568 SF
3 OCCUPANTS
UNIT 1
501
@ 200 SF/OCC
R-2
187 SF
1 OCCUPANTS
LAUNDRY
512
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
4,119 SF
14 OCCUPANTS
PENTHOUSE
516
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
2,094 SF
7 OCCUPANTS
MECHANICAL
ENCLOSURE
517
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
3,367 SF
225 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE
520
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3
211 SF
15 OCCUPANTS
ELEVATOR
LOBBY
518
@ 15 SF/OCC
A-3
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
5.1"
34"
513
34
MAX EATD = 235'
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
5.1"
34"
511A
34
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
25.2"
34"
520A
168
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
18.0"
34"
520B
120
DOOR #
OCC LOAD
REQ WIDTH*
PRO WIDTH
25.2"
34"
519
168
STAIR #5: 202 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 40.4" 
PROVIDED WIDTH: 51"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
STAIR #1: 202 OCCUPANTS
REQUIRED WIDTH**: 40.4"
PROVIDED WIDTH: 65"
(ACCESSIBLE EXIT STAIR)
MAX EATD = 102'
114' - 5"
134 SF
1 OCCUPANTS
BIKE STORAGE
511
@ 300 SF/OCC
S-2
1/3 DIAGONAL = 55'-2"
165' - 7"
1/3 DIAGONAL = 20'-8"
61' - 11"
23'-1"
12
168
34
168
48
12
120
34
(48+120)
(48+120)
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
As indicated
A-003B
EGRESS AND OCCUPANCY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1" = 30'-0"
1
LEVEL 2 EGRESS PLAN
1" = 30'-0"
2
LEVEL 3 EGRESS PLAN
1" = 30'-0"
3
LEVEL 4 EGRESS PLAN
Egress Schedule Levels 2-Roof
Occupancy
Area
Load Factor
Occupant Load
LEVEL 5
A-3
5,016 SF
15
336
R-2
7,431 SF
200
41
S-2
7,173 SF
300
26
19,620 SF
403
LEVEL 4
A-3*
4,391 SF
15
293
B
382 SF
15
26
B
26,003 SF
150
177
S-2
291 SF
300
2
31,066 SF
498
LEVEL 3
A-3
6,030 SF
15
403
A-3*
5,778 SF
15
386
B
25,018 SF
150
170
S-2
291 SF
300
2
37,117 SF
961
LEVEL 2
A-3*
7,254 SF
15
484
B
33,318 SF
150
224
S-2
291 SF
300
2
40,863 SF
710
1" = 30'-0"
4
LEVEL 5 EGRESS PLAN
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
E
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
STAIR OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATIONS
STAIR #1
STAIR #5
RESIDENTIAL UNITS (INCLUDING AUXILIARY SPACES):
22 OCCUPANTS
22 OCCUPANTS
MECHANICAL ROOMS:
12 OCCUPANTS
12 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE 520 (AND ELEVATOR LOBBY 518):
120 OCCUPANTS
120 OCCUPANTS
TERRACE 519:
48 OCCUPANTS 
48 OCCUPANTS
TOTAL:
202 OCCUPANTS
202 OCCUPANTS
*NOTE: THIS A-3 OCCUPANCY ALLOWANCE IS A PLACEHOLDER FOR CONFERENCE 
ROOMS, BREAK ROOMS, ETC THAT MAY BE PART OF A FUTURE TI. IT IS INCLUDED 
HERE TO ENSURE THAT ALL EGRESS COMPONENTS ARE SIZED APPROPRIATELY 
FOR THIS FUTURE USE. IT HAS NOT BEEN USED TO DETERMINE OCCUPANCY 
SEPARATIONS. 
79 of 1252

--- page 80 ---
PLUMBING FIXTURE SUMMARY
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-004
PLUMBING FIXTURE
CALCULATIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
Plumbing Fixture Occupant Load
Occupancy
Area
P Load
Factor
P Occupant
Load
P Occupant
Load Per
Sex
LEVEL 5
A-3
3,367 SF
30
113
56.5
3,367 SF
113
56.5
LEVEL 4
A-3*
4,391 SF
30
147
73.5
B
382 SF
30
13
6.5
B
23,351 SF
200
117
58.5
28,123 SF
277
138.5
LEVEL 3
A-3
6,030 SF
30
202
101
A-3*
5,778 SF
30
193
96.5
B
22,621 SF
200
114
57
34,429 SF
509
254.5
LEVEL 2
A-3*
7,254 SF
30
242
121
B
31,017 SF
200
156
78
38,271 SF
398
199
LEVEL 1
B
1,751 SF
200
9
4.5
1,751 SF
9
4.5
CPC TABLE 422.1 MINIMUM PUMBING FACILITIES
PLUMBING FIXTURES PROVIDED
LEVEL 1
1 SINGLE OCCUPANCY RESTROOM*
*PER CPC 422.2 EXCEPTION 2, ONE TOILET FACILITY FOR USE BY NO MORE THAN ONE PERSON AT A TIME 
SHALL BE PERMITTED FOR USE BY BOTH SEXES IN OCCUPANCIES WITH AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF 10 OR LESS.
NOTE: RESTROOMS FOR M-OCCUPANCY ARE NOT PROVIDED IN BASE BUILDING AND WILL BE INCLUDED UNDER 
SEPERATE TI PERMIT.
LEVEL 2
WATER CLOSETS (M):
4 FIXTURES
WATER CLOSETS (F):
8 FIXTURES
URINALS:
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (M):
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (F):
4 FIXTURES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
3 FIXTURES
LEVEL 3
WATER CLOSETS (M):
4 FIXTURES
WATER CLOSETS (F):
8 FIXTURES
URINALS:
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (M):
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (F):
4 FIXTURES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
3 FIXTURES
LEVEL 4
WATER CLOSETS (M):
4 FIXTURES
WATER CLOSETS (F):
8 FIXTURES
URINALS:
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (M):
4 FIXTURES
LAVATORIES (F):
4 FIXTURES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
3 FIXTURES
LEVEL 5
WATER CLOSETS (M):
NONE
WATER CLOSETS (F):
NONE
URINALS:
NONE
LAVATORIES (M):
NONE
LAVATORIES (F):
NONE
DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
NONE
*PER CBC 2902.3.3, THE REQUIRED TOILET FACILITIES SHALL BE LOCATED NOT MORE THAN ONE STORY ABOVE 
OR BELOW THE SPACE REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED WITH TOILET FACILITIES. THE TOILET FACILITIES FOR THE 
OFFICE ROOF DECK ARE PROVIDED ON LEVEL 4, AND THE CALCULATIONS FOR THE REQUIRED NUMBER OF 
FIXTURES ON LEVEL 4 INCLUDE THE COMBINED OCCUPANT LOADS OF LEVELS 4 AND 5. 
No. Date
Description
A
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
80 of 1252

--- page 81 ---
6"
TYP
8'-6"
17'-6"
9'-0" MIN
9'-0" CLR
RESTRICTED STALLS
(STANDARD)
1'-0"
1'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-6"
1'-6"
1'-6"
1'-6"
6"
TYP
8'-0"
TYP
8'-0"
TYP
8'-0"
6"
1'-0"
TYP
8'-0"
1'-0"
8'-0" MIN
8'-6" CLR
8'-0" MIN
8'-6" CLR
RESTRICTED STALLS
(COMPACT)
CONFINED STALL
(COMPACT)
9'-0" MIN
10'-0" CLR
1'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-0"
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/8" = 1'-0"
A-005
PARKING DETAILS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
STALL CLEARANCES - STANDARD
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
STALL CLEARANCES - COMPACT
No. Date
Description
A
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
81 of 1252

--- page 82 ---
PK
PK
PK
PK
FIFTH AVENUE
B STREET
FOURTH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
LOADING
0' - 0"
-1' - 0"
-2' - 0"
0' - 0"
-1' - 10"
5'-0"
19'-6"
170'-0"
19'-6"
6'-0"
1'-0"
5'-0"
212'-0"
6'-10"
COMMUNITY 
OPEN SPACE
2,070 SF
OUTDOOR DINING 
SPACE
1,450 SF
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF 
TRAVEL, TYPICAL
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF 
TRAVEL, TYPICAL
6'-10"
60'-9"
151'-3"
5'-0"
1'-0"
5'-0"
47'-0"
162'-0"
6'-0"
COMMUNITY 
PARKLET
COMMUNITY 
PARKLET
-2' - 9"
-2' - 9"
-3' - 0"
-2' - 9"
-0' - 4"
0' - 0"
-2' - 9"
0' - 0"
1
1
2
2
2
2
3
4
4%
2
2
2
2
2
2
5
5
5
3'-0"
22'-6"
22'-6"
3'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
54'-0"
15'-6"
4'-0"
21'-9"
4'-0"
4'-0"
23'-6"
17'-9"
22'-6"
12'-9"
23'-6"
31'-6"
22'-6"
21'-9"
22'-6"
3'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
3'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
51'-0"
51'-0"
4'-0"
22'-6"
3'-0"
22'-6"
21'-9"
4'-0"
4'-0"
26'-6"
15'-6"
4'-0"
22'-6"
22'-6"
1
5
GENERAL NOTES
1. ACCESSIBLE PATHS OF TRAVEL:
A. ARE CONTINUOUSLY ACCESSIBLE
B. HAVE MAX. 1/2" CHANGES IN ELEVATION WITH A 1:2 BEVEL OR A RAMP PER CBC 
11B-405
C. 48" MIN. WIDE
D. HAVE A MAX. RUNNING SLOPE OF 1:20 (5%) AND A MAX. CROSS SLOPE OF 1:50 (2%) 
PER CBC 403.3. 
E. SHALL COINCIDE WITH OR BE LOCATED IN THE SAME AREA AS GENERAL 
CIRCULATION PATHS. WHERE CIRCULATION PATHS ARE INTERIOR, REQUIRED 
ACCESSIBLE ROUTES SHALL ALSO BE INTERIOR. 
2. PER CBC 11B-502.4 MAX. PERMITTED SLOPE OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACE AND 
ACCESS AISLES IS 2% IN ANY DIRECTION
SHEET NOTES
LEGEND
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL
APPROXIMATE EXTENT OF LIMITED 
PARKING ZONE
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-101
SITE PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 1 SITE PLAN
Key Value
Keynote Text
1
THE PROJECT PROPOSES A LOT TIE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE PROPERTY OWNERS OF THE FOUR
LOTS THAT MAKE UP THE PROJECT SITE. THEREFORE,
THE INTERIOR LOT LINES SHALL NOT BE USED TO
DETERMINE THE FIRE SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS
OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE.
2
EXTENT OF CANOPY (ABOVE)
3
EXTENT OF FLOOR (ABOVE)
4
AUDIO/VISUAL PEDESTRIAN WARNING SIGN MOUNTED
TO FACE OF BUILDING COLUMN, CALIBRATED TO NOT
DISTURB RESIDENTIAL TENANTS ACROSS 5TH
AVENUE.
5
BIKE RACK, S.L.D.
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
06/15/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
82 of 1252

--- page 83 ---
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
A-102
CONTEXT IMAGES
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
4TH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
5TH AVENUE
B STREET
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
83 of 1252

--- page 84 ---
OPEN SPACE
TOTAL AREA:
1,455 SF
UNSHADED AREA: 1,290 SF
UNSHADED %:
89%
OPEN SPACE
TOTAL AREA:
1,455 SF
UNSHADED AREA: 1,455 SF
UNSHADED %:
100%
OPEN SPACE
TOTAL AREA:
1,455 SF
UNSHADED AREA: 1,280 SF
UNSHADED %:
88%
OPEN SPACE
TOTAL AREA:
1,455 SF
UNSHADED AREA: 1,455 SF
UNSHADED %:
100%
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1" = 40'-0"
A-103
SHADOW STUDIES
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1" = 40'-0"
1
Fall, 12PM
1" = 40'-0"
2
Fall, 2PM
1" = 40'-0"
3
Spring, 12PM
1" = 40'-0"
4
Spring, 2PM
No. Date
Description
A
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
84 of 1252

--- page 85 ---
RETAIL
OFFICE
LOBBY
KITCHEN SERVICES SHAFT 
FOR GROCERY (ABOVE)
REFRIGERANT SHAFT FOR 
GROCERY
SUPPLY/EXHAUST SHAFT 
FOR OFFICE (ABOVE)
EXHAUST SHAFTS FOR 
GARAGE
OFFICE ELEVATORS
SUPPLY SHAFT FOR GARAGE
RAMP DN 15%
GARAGE ENTRY / EXIT. 
PROVIDE VERTICAL 
CLEARANCE BAR OVERHEAD. 
PARKING
2' x 3' OPENING
2' x 3' OPENING
DAS RISER
ELEC RISER
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
-1' - 0"
-2' - 0"
0' - 0"
-1' - 0"
BIKE
STORAGE
POTENTIAL RETAIL 
ENTRANCE
RETAIL LOADING/TRASH ACCESS
STAIR #3
STAIR #2
WATER PUMP
ELEV CTRL
FIRE PUMP/
FIRE
CONTROL
MPOE
BACK FLOW
PREVENTERS
TRASH
CORRIDOR
MAIN
ELECTRICAL
TRANSFORMER
MEP
GARAGE
LOBBY
DAS/BMS
OFFICE
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL
SHARED (ALL USES)
S002
RETAIL
S003
RETAIL
S004
RETAIL
S005
RETAIL
S006
RETAIL
S007
RETAIL
S008
RETAIL
S009
RETAIL
S010
RETAIL
S011
RETAIL
S012
RETAIL
S013
RETAIL
A002
RETAIL
S001
RETAIL
C001
RETAIL
A001
RETAIL
C002
RETAIL
C003
RETAIL
C004
RETAIL
12'-0"
3'-3"
17'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
25'-6"
18'-0"
17'-0"
23'-0"
SHOWERS
ELEV
EL: 0' - 0"
EL: -2' - 9"
EL: -0' - 4"
EL: -1' - 10"
ELEV
PUBLIC PARKING ACCESS
RESIDENTIAL ELEVATOR
PUBLIC ELEVATOR
STAIR #1
SUB
ELECTRIC
RESIDENTIAL
LOBBY
ELEV
EL: -2' - 9"
EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
FACILITIES
EL: -2' - 9"
-2' - 9"
VAN
VESTIBULE
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
-0' - 8"
-0' - 8"
5%
6%
1" / 12"
CLEAR
22'-0"
1'-4"
1' - 8"
2'-1"
3'-6"
6'-10"
19'-6"
191'-0"
1'-6"
5'-0"
1'-0"
5'-0"
47'-0"
142'-6"
19'-6"
6'-0"
6'-10"
60'-9"
151'-3"
5'-0"
1'-0"
5'-0"
11'-6"
8'-0"
170'-0"
8'-0"
11'-6"
6'-0"
-1' - 6"
-1' - 6"
-1' - 6"
-2' - 0"
-2' - 9"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-201
LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 1
STALLS
19
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Planning Resubmittal
G
85 of 1252

--- page 86 ---
TENANT
SPACE
ELECTRICAL
5' x 3' OPENINGS
2' x 5' OPENINGS
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
OFFICE
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
1'-0"
5'-0"
82'-6"
22'-6"
87'-6"
19'-6"
6'-10"
5'-0"
24'-6"
22'-6"
60'-0"
22'-6"
60'-0"
19'-6"
6'-0"
1'-0"
5'-0"
82'-6"
22'-6"
46'-3"
16'-9"
44'-0"
6'-10"
5'-0"
19'-6"
60'-0"
50'-0"
60'-0"
19'-6"
6'-0"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-202
LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 2
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
86 of 1252

--- page 87 ---
TENANT
SPACE
TERRACE
TERRACE
ELECTRICAL
5' x 3' OPENINGS
2' x 5' OPENINGS
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
OFFICE
TERRACE*
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
24'-6"
5'-0"
22'-6"
60'-0"
22'-6"
60'-0"
25'-6"
1'-0" 5'-0"
82'-6"
22'-6"
46'-3"
16'-9"
24'-6"
26'-4"
1'-0" 5'-0"
82'-6"
22'-6"
87'-6"
26'-4"
24'-6"
60'-0"
50'-0"
60'-0"
25'-6"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-203
LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 3
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
87 of 1252

--- page 88 ---
TENANT
SPACE
5' x 3' OPENINGS
ELECTRICAL
2' x 5' OPENINGS
TERRACE
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
OFFICE
TERRACE*
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
1'-0"
87'-6"
22'-6"
87'-6"
26'-4"
24'-6"
60'-0"
50'-0"
60'-0"
25'-6"
26'-4"
24'-3"
17'-0"
46'-3"
22'-6"
87'-6"
1'-0"
24'-6"
4'-9"
22'-9"
60'-0"
22'-6"
60'-0"
25'-6"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-204
LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 4
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
88 of 1252

--- page 89 ---
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
D
W
D
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
1,430 SF
COMMON
USABLE
OPEN SPACE
(EXCLUSIVE
TO
RESIDENTIAL)*
OFFICE
ROOF DECK
4,637 SF
MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
RESIDENTIAL
EGRESS PATHWAY*
PLANTING*
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL COMMON
OPEN SPACE*
SHARED (ALL USES)
TERRACE*
1,000 SF 
SOLAR ZONE
5KV MIN
OFFICE VRF COMPRESSORS
MAKE-UP AIR
FIRST FLOOR
MAKE-UP AIR
KITCHEN
GREASE 
EXHAUST 
KITCHEN
GARAGE 
EXHAUST
GARAGE 
EXHAUST
MAKE-UP AIR
OFFICE
ELEVATOR 
TO ROOF 
DECK
OFFICE VRF COMPRESSORS
1ST FLR VRF COMPRESSORS
MAKE-UP AIR
OFFICE
1 BR
600 SF
1 BR
600 SF
1 BR
600 SF
1 BR
600 SF
S
460 SF
S
460 SF
1 BR
630 SF
1 BR
630 SF
EGRESS PATHWAY
1 BR
600 SF
1 BR
600 SF
EGRESS PATHWAY
BIKE STORAGE
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
LAUNDRY
TRASH
60'-0"
OC
64G CART
COMPOST
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
WASTE
96G CART
WASTE
96G CART
WASTE
8"
8"
3'-6"
1'-4"
65'-5 1/2"
88'-1"
6'-3"
7'-2 1/2"
53'-0"
28'-6"
7'-2 1/2"
6'-3"
115'-7"
13'-5 1/2"
53'-10"
52'-0"
7'-2 1/2"
6'-3"
88'-1"
6'-3"
7'-2 1/2"
53'-0"
53'-10"
7'-2 1/2"
6'-3"
115'-7"
6'-3"
7'-2 1/2"
28'-6"
18'-8 1/2"
15'-0"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-205
LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 5
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
89 of 1252

--- page 90 ---
PARKING
RAMP UP 15%
POTENTIAL 
FUTURE GREASE 
INTERCEPTOR
LOCATION
POTENTIAL 
FUTURE GREASE 
INTERCEPTOR
LOCATION
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
PARKING*
S124
OFFICE
S101
OFFICE
S102
OFFICE
S103
OFFICE
S104
OFFICE
S105
OFFICE
S106
OFFICE
EV104
OFFICE
EV105
OFFICE
EV109
OFFICE
S120
RETAIL
S121
RETAIL
S122
RETAIL
S123
RETAIL
EV119
OFFICE
EV120
OFFICE
EV121
OFFICE
EV122
OFFICE
EV126
OFFICE
EV128
OFFICE
EV129
OFFICE
EV130
OFFICE
A103
OFFICE
A105
OFFICE
EV131
OFFICE
EV132
OFFICE
EV133
OFFICE
EV134
OFFICE
EV135
OFFICE
EV136
OFFICE
S125
OFFICE
S126
OFFICE
C101
OFFICE
C102
OFFICE
C103
OFFICE
C104
OFFICE
C105
OFFICE
C106
OFFICE
C107
RETAIL
C108
RETAIL
C109
RETAIL
C110
RETAIL
C111
RETAIL
C112
RETAIL
C113
RETAIL
C114
OFFICE
C115
OFFICE
C116
OFFICE
C117
OFFICE
C118
OFFICE
C119
OFFICE
C120
OFFICE
C132
OFFICE
C131
OFFICE
C130
OFFICE
C129
OFFICE
C126
OFFICE
C125
OFFICE
C124
OFFICE
C123
OFFICE
C122
OFFICE
C121
OFFICE
C127
OFFICE
C128
OFFICE
VAN
EV125
OFFICE
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
22'-0"
2'-0"
17'-0"
22'-0"
17'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
EV106
OFFICE
EV108
OFFICE
EV107
OFFICE
GENERATOR
S116
OFFICE
S117
OFFICE
S118
OFFICE
EV101
OFFICE
A104
OFFICE
EV102
OFFICE
EV103
OFFICE
12'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
TYP
8'-0"
EV116
RETAIL
24'-0"
18'-0"
A-005
1
A-005
2
TYP
17'-0"
9'-0"
S119
RETAIL
EV110
OFFICE
EV111
OFFICE
EV112
OFFICE
EV113
RETAIL
EV114
RETAIL
EV115
RETAIL
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
CLEAR
22'-0"
EV117
RETAIL
EV118
RETAIL
A101
OFFICE
A102
OFFICE
EV123
OFFICE
EV124
OFFICE
A106
OFFICE
EV127
OFFICE
10'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
TYP
8'-6"
TYP
18'-0"
24'-0"
5'-0"
12'-0"
9'-0"
5'-0"
S107
OFFICE
S108
OFFICE
S109
OFFICE
S110
OFFICE
S111
OFFICE
S112
OFFICE
S113
OFFICE
S114
OFFICE
S115
OFFICE
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-206
LEVEL B1 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL B1
STALLS
100
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
E
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
90 of 1252

--- page 91 ---
PARKING
1
A-321
2
A-321
1
A-322
2
A-322
PARKING*
S273
OFFICE
S201
OFFICE
S202
OFFICE
S203
OFFICE
S204
OFFICE
S205
OFFICE
S206
OFFICE
S216
OFFICE
S217
OFFICE
S218
OFFICE
S222
OFFICE
S223
OFFICE
S227
OFFICE
S234
OFFICE
S235
OFFICE
S236
OFFICE
S237
OFFICE
S238
OFFICE
S239
OFFICE
S240
OFFICE
S241
OFFICE
S242
OFFICE
S243
OFFICE
S244
OFFICE
S245
OFFICE
S246
OFFICE
S247
OFFICE
S248
OFFICE
S249
OFFICE
S251
OFFICE
S252
OFFICE
S253
OFFICE
S254
OFFICE
S255
OFFICE
S256
OFFICE
S258
OFFICE
S260
OFFICE
S261
OFFICE
S262
OFFICE
S263
OFFICE
S264
OFFICE
S266
OFFICE
S277
OFFICE
S267
OFFICE
S268
OFFICE
S269
OFFICE
S270
OFFICE
S271
OFFICE
S272
OFFICE
S274
OFFICE
S275
OFFICE
S276
OFFICE
C201
OFFICE
C202
OFFICE
C203
OFFICE
C204
OFFICE
C205
OFFICE
C206
OFFICE
C207
OFFICE
C208
OFFICE
C209
OFFICE
C210
OFFICE
C211
OFFICE
C212
OFFICE
C213
OFFICE
C214
OFFICE
C215
OFFICE
C216
OFFICE
C217
OFFICE
C218
OFFICE
C219
OFFICE
C220
OFFICE
C233
OFFICE
C232
OFFICE
C231
OFFICE
C230
OFFICE
C226
OFFICE
C225
OFFICE
C224
OFFICE
C223
OFFICE
C222
OFFICE
C221
OFFICE
C227
OFFICE
C228
OFFICE
S259
OFFICE
S278
OFFICE
S279
OFFICE
S280
OFFICE
S257
OFFICE
S265
OFFICE
S250
OFFICE
C229
OFFICE
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
26'-0"
17'-0"
22'-0"
17'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
S224
OFFICE
S225
OFFICE
S226
OFFICE
S281
OFFICE
S282
OFFICE
S209
OFFICE
S210
OFFICE
S213
OFFICE
S214
OFFICE
S1215
OFFICE
S211
OFFICE
S212
OFFICE
S207
OFFICE
S208
OFFICE
S219
OFFICE
S220
OFFICE
S221
OFFICE
TYP
8'-6"
TYP
8'-0"
S228
OFFICE
S229
OFFICE
S230
OFFICE
S231
OFFICE
S232
OFFICE
S233
OFFICE
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP
18'-0"
TYP
17'-0"
* NOT INCLUDED IN GROSS FLOOR AREA
CLEAR
22'-0"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-207
LEVEL B2 FLOOR PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL B2
STALLS
115
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
E
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
91 of 1252

--- page 92 ---
W
W
W
9'-9 1/2"
11'-6 1/2"
11'-10 1/2"
4'-5"
10'-3"
1 BR
590 SF
6'-3"
10'-9 1/2"
5'-8 1/2"
11'-3"
3'-5"
8'-2"
6'-6 1/2"
5'-8"
7'-2 1/2"
1 BR
630 SF
14'-1"
7'-0"
10'-6 1/2"
13'-9"
S
460 SF
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/4" = 1'-0"
A-210
RESIDENTIAL UNIT PLANS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
1-BED TYPE A
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
1-BED TYPE B
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
STUDIO
No. Date
Description
A
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
92 of 1252

--- page 93 ---
TYPE 1
TYPE 2
TYPE 3
LIVING WALL
TYPE 4
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1" = 20'-0"
A-220
DESIGN CONTEXT PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
SEE SHEETS A-401 - A-404 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON FACADE TYPES
VIEW 1: FACADE TYPE 1
SEE SHEET A-301 FOR MORE INFORMATION
VIEW 2: FACADE TYPE 2
SEE SHEET A-302 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
VIEW 3: FACADE TYPE 3
SEE SHEET A-303 FOR MORE INFORMATION
VIEW 4: FACADE TYPE 4
SEE SHEET A-304 FOR MORE INFORMATION
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
93 of 1252

--- page 94 ---
16.833
3.65
9.41
NPA Design Vehicle
Overall Length
16.833ft
Overall Width
6.583ft
Overall Body Height
6.069ft
Min Body Ground Clearance
0.840ft
Track Width
6.583ft
Lock-to-lock time
4.00s
Curb to Curb Turning Radius
19.357ft
NPA Design Vehicle
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-231
LEVEL 1 VEHICLE TURNING
ANALYSIS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 1 - VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
94 of 1252

--- page 95 ---
16.833
3.65
9.41
NPA Design Vehicle
Overall Length
16.833ft
Overall Width
6.583ft
Overall Body Height
6.069ft
Min Body Ground Clearance
0.840ft
Track Width
6.583ft
Lock-to-lock time
4.00s
Curb to Curb Turning Radius
19.357ft
16.833
3.65
9.41
NPA Design Vehicle
Overall Length
16.833ft
Overall Width
6.583ft
Overall Body Height
6.069ft
Min Body Ground Clearance
0.840ft
Track Width
6.583ft
Lock-to-lock time
4.00s
Curb to Curb Turning Radius
19.357ft
NPA Design Vehicle
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-232
LEVEL B1 & B2 VEHICLE TURNING
ANALYSIS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL B1 - VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
LEVEL B2 - VEHICLE TURNING ANALYSIS
95 of 1252

--- page 96 ---
1A
1B
1B
1C
1A
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-301
RENDERING
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
VIEW FROM FOURTH AVENUE
FACADE TYPE 1
1A. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH METAL AND WOOD CANOPY 
1B. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH DIVIDED TRANSOM LITES AND FABRIC 
AWNING
1C. RECESSED METAL STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH PROFILED METAL HEADERS AND 
JAMBS AND GLASS CANOPY
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
96 of 1252

--- page 97 ---
2E
2D
2B
2C
2B
2A
2A
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-302
RENDERING
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
VIEW FROM ELLSWORTH AVENUE
FACADE TYPE 2
2A. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH METAL AND WOOD CANOPY
2B. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM
2C. RECESSED METAL STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH PROFILED METAL 
HEADERS AND JAMBS AND GLASS CANOPY
2D. WOOD "NANAWALL" SYSTEM WITH WOOD SOFFIT AND CLADDING
2E. VINE-COVERED WALL
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
97 of 1252

--- page 98 ---
3A
3C
3A
3B
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-303
RENDERING
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
VIEW FROM FIFTH AVENUE
FACADE TYPE 3
3A. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH DIVIDED TRANSOM LITES AND FABRIC AWNING
3B. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM
3C. RECESSED VINE-COVERED WALL
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
98 of 1252

--- page 99 ---
4C
4A
4B
4C
4A
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-304
RENDERING
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
VIEW FROM B STREET
FACADE TYPE 4
4A. RECESSED METAL STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH PROFILED METAL HEADERS 
AND JAMBS AND GLASS CANOPY
4B. WOOD WINDOW SYSTEM WITH METAL AND WOOD CANOPY
4C. WOOD STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM WITH DIVIDED TRANSOM LITES AND FABRIC 
AWNING
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
99 of 1252

--- page 100 ---
RETAIL BAY TYPE 1
RETAIL BAY TYPE 2
RETAIL BAY TYPE 3
RETAIL BAY TYPE 2
RETAIL BAY TYPE 1A
RETAIL BAY TYPE 4
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-305
RENDERING
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
VIEW OF FOURTH AVENUE RETAIL
No. Date
Description
A
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
100 of 1252

--- page 101 ---
BR-1
CON-1
BR-1
GL-4
GL-1
GL-2
GL-1
GL-1
WD-1
BR-1
GL-1
WD-1
GL-1
BR-1
BR-1
GL-3
MTL-2
BR-1
GL-2
GL-1
GL-2
BR-1
MTL-2
BR-1
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/16" = 1'-0"
A-306
MATERIALS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
MTL-1: PAINTED ALUMINUM TRIM
CON-1: CONCRETE BASE
WD-1: WOOD
BR-1: RED BRICK
GL-1: CLEAR GLASS
GL-2: SPANDREL GLASS
MTL-2: PAINTED ALUMINUM PANELS
GL-4: RESIDENTIAL WINDOWS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
101 of 1252

--- page 102 ---
RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE
OFFICE
OFFICE
RETAIL
4th STREET
5th STREET
ROW
80'-0"
224'-10"
ROW
60'-0"
SIGHT LINE
SIGHT LINE
RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE
OFFICE
OFFICE
RETAIL
ELLSWORTH
B STREET
ROW
70'-0"
220'-0"
ROW
70'-0"
SIGHT LINE
SIGHT LINE
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-307
LINE OF SIGHT DIAGRAMS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
Site Section 1
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
Site Section 2
No. Date
Description
A
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
102 of 1252

--- page 103 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
1
7
9
3
6
2
8
4
5
16'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
4'-0"
ROOF
101.20
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
58'-0"
76'-0"
RETAIL ENTRANCE
A-402
1
A-401
1
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
74' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
78' - 3"
26.93 *
* (E) ELEVATION TO REMAIN
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
1
7
9
3
6
2
8
4
5
4'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
ROOF
101.20
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
58'-0"
76'-0"
VEHICLE ENTRY
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 3"
26.05 *
* (E) ELEVATION TO REMAIN
GENERATOR EXHAUST
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-311
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
North - 4th Street
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
South - 5th Street
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Planning Resubmittal
G
103 of 1252

--- page 104 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
A
C
D
E
J
H
B
G
ROOF
101.20
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
4'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
58'-0"
76'-0"
PUBLIC PARKING ENTRANCE
RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCE
RETAIL LOADING/TRASH
RETAIL ENTRANCE
26.05 *
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 2"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 2"
* (E) ELEVATION TO REMAIN
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
A
C
D
E
J
H
B
G
4'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
ROOF
101.20
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
58'-0"
76'-0"
OFFICE ENTRANCE
PGE TRANSFORMER
BIKE STORAGE
TRASH ROOM
28.96 *
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
72' - 3"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
76' - 3"
* (E) ELEVATION TO REMAIN
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
3/32" = 1'-0"
A-312
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
East - B Street
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
West - Ellsworth
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Planning Application Set
E
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
104 of 1252

--- page 105 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL B1
16.20
LEVEL B2
6.20
35'-0"
35'-0"
150'-0"
35'-0"
35'-0"
ROOF
101.20
4'-0"
12'-0"
2'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
13'-0"
10'-0"
ELLSWORTH
B STREET
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
28.96
26.05
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
72' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
76' - 3"
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 2"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 2"
45°
1:1 SLOPE
36'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
70'
1:1 SLOPE
36'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
70'
45°
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL B1
16.20
LEVEL B2
6.20
ROOF
101.20
4'-0"
12'-0"
2'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
13'-0"
10'-0"
35'-0"
35'-0"
150'-0"
35'-0"
35'-0"
ELLSWORTH
B STREET
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
26.05
28.96
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
72' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
76' - 3"
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 2"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 2"
45°
1:1 SLOPE
36'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
45°
70'
1:1 SLOPE
36'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
70'
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-321
BUILDING SECTIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
Section 1
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
Section 2
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
105 of 1252

--- page 106 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL B1
16.20
LEVEL B2
6.20
ROOF
101.20
12'-0"
2'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
13'-0"
10'-0"
4TH AVENUE
5TH AVENUE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
26.93
40'-0"
35'-0"
26.05
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 2"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 2"
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
74' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
78' - 3"
5%
15%
CLR
9' - 6"
5%
15%
5%
1:1 SLOPE
45°
40'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL B1
16.20
LEVEL B2
6.20
ROOF
101.20
12'-0"
2'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
14'-0"
16'-0"
13'-0"
10'-0"
4TH AVENUE
5TH AVENUE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
LEVEL 5
89.20
T.O. SCREEN
105.20
26.05
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
75' - 2"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
79' - 2"
26.93
PLATE HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
74' - 3"
TOTAL HEIGHT MEASURED FROM (E) GRADE
78' - 3"
1:1 SLOPE
45°
40'
75' HEIGHT LIMIT
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-322
BUILDING SECTIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
Section 3
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
Section 4
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/22 Planning Resubmittal
106 of 1252

--- page 107 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
6
5
LEVEL 5
89.20
2
A-401
GL-2
GL-1
GL-2
BR-1
BR-2
GL-1
GL-2
BR-2
MTL-1
MTL-1
GL-2
GL-1
BR-1
MTL-1
MTL-2
MTL-2
GL-1
GL-1
BR-1
MTL-2
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
A
B
LEVEL 5
89.20
A-401
6
A-401
5
A-401
4
A-401
3
A-402
3
9"
3"
2 1/2"
FULL BRICK COURSING, TYP
THIN BRICK COURSING, TYP
0.125" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
COPING
0.25" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
FRAME
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
6" PRECAST CONCRETE 
PANEL
2 1/2"
3"
9"
FULL BRICK COURSING, TYP
THIN BRICK COURSING, TYP
0.25" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
FRAME
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
0.25" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
FRAME
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
PAINTED ALUMINUM "SHADOW 
BOX" BEHIND CLEAR VISION 
GLASS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
6" PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
6"
3"
6"
0.125" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
"C-CHANNEL"
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
STEEL POST AS NEEDED TO 
SUPPORT GLASS  GUARDRAIL
PAINTED ALUMINUM "SHADOW 
BOX" BEHIND CLEAR VISION 
GLASS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
6"
3"
6"
0.125" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
"C-CHANNEL"
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
PAINTED ALUMINUM WINDOW 
MULLIONS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
As indicated
A-401
ENLARGED ELEVATIONS AND
SECTIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED ELEVATION - SKIN TYPE A
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED SECTION - SKIN TYPE A
1" = 1'-0"
6
TYPICAL BRICK CORNICE DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
5
TYPICAL LEVEL 3 SPANDREL DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
4
ALUMINUM C-CHANNEL AND GUARDRAIL DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
3
ALUMINUM C-CHANNEL SPANDREL DETAIL
No. Date
Description
A
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
Key Value
Keynote Text
BR-1
BRICK CLADDING
BR-2
RIBBED BRICK CLADDING
GL-1
VISION GLASS
GL-2
VISION GLASS WITH SHADOW BOX
MTL-1
PAINTED METAL TRIM/CLADDING
MTL-2
PAINTED METAL CLADDING
107 of 1252

--- page 108 ---
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL 5
89.20
2
A-402
BR-1
GL-2
GL-1
MTL-1
GL-2
BR-2
GL-2
GL-1
GL-2
BR-2
BR-1
GL-1
GL-1
WD-1
BR-1
BR-1
GL-1
GL-1
BR-1
BR-2
LEVEL 1
29.20
LEVEL 2
45.20
LEVEL 3
59.20
LEVEL 4
73.20
ROOF DECK
87.20
LEVEL 5
89.20
A-401
6
Sim
A-401
5
Sim
A-402
6
A-402
5
A-402
4
3"
6"
2 1/2"
FULL BRICK COURSING, TYP
THIN BRICK COURSING, TYP
0.125" PAINTED ALUMINUM 
COPING
WOOD WINDOW FRAME AND 
MULLIONS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
6" PRECAST CONCRETE 
PANEL
1 1/2"
10 1/2"
6"
2 1/2"
FULL BRICK COURSING, TYP
THIN BRICK COURSING, TYP
WOOD WINDOW FRAME AND 
MULLIONS
WOOD WINDOW FRAME AND 
MULLIONS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
CLEAR VISION GLASS
INSULATED FURRED WALL 
(BY TENANT)
6" PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
5'-0"
10"
0.125 PAINTED ALUMINUM CLADDING
WOOD SOFFIT
5'-0"
PAINTED STEEL SUPPORT
TRANSLUCENT GLASS
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
As indicated
A-402
ENLARGED ELEVATIONS AND
SECTIONS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED SECTION - SKIN TYPE B
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED SECTION - SKIN TYPE B
1" = 1'-0"
6
TYPICAL LEVEL 3 CORNICE DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
5
TYPICAL LEVEL 2 SPANDREL DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
4
TYPICAL PAINTED ALUMINUM AND WOOD CANOPY DETAIL
1" = 1'-0"
3
TYPICAL GLASS CANOPY DETAIL
No. Date
Description
A
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
04/22/22 Planning Resubmittal
Key Value
Keynote Text
BR-1
BRICK CLADDING
BR-2
RIBBED BRICK CLADDING
GL-1
VISION GLASS
GL-2
VISION GLASS WITH SHADOW BOX
MTL-1
PAINTED METAL TRIM/CLADDING
WD-1
WOOD TRIM/CLADDING
108 of 1252

--- page 109 ---
<
<
<
<<
<
<
<
X
X
X
X
PARCEL 1
(69 M 22)
E 5TH AVENUE
(60' R/W)
LOT 3 BLOCK 5
(1 M 45)
PORTION LOT 4 BLOCK 5
(1 M 45)
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
(70' R/W)
E 4TH AVENUE
(80' R/W)
SOUTH B STREET
(70' R/W)
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C1.00
EXISTING
CONDITIONS
PLAN
NORTH
NOTES
<
<
LEGEND
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD/R
ZONING C1-3/R5
ZONING R6-D
ZONING OS
ZONING CBD/R
ZONING CBD/R
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
109 of 1252

--- page 110 ---
<
<
<
<<
<
<
<
X
X
X
X
PARCEL 1
(69 M 22)
LOT 3 BLOCK 5
(1 M 45)
PORTION LOT 4 BLOCK 5
(1 M 45)
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C1.01
DEMOLITION
PLAN
NORTH
LEGEND
NOTES
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
110 of 1252

--- page 111 ---
X
UP
X
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
C2.00
PRELIMINARY
STREET
LAYOUT PLAN
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
PROPOSED PARKING SUMMARY
EXISTING PARKING SUMMARY
NORTH
KEYNOTES
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD
ZONING CBD/R
ZONING C1-3/R5
ZONING R6-D
ZONING OS
ZONING CBD/R
ZONING CBD/R
STRIPING NOTES
S. ELLSWORTH
AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
TRASH STAGING AREA
111 of 1252

--- page 112 ---
TYPICAL SECTION B - E ELLSWORTH AVENUE
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION E - S. B STREET
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION F - E. 5TH AVENUE
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION A - S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION C - E. 4TH AVENUE
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION D - E. 4TH AVENUE
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
TYPICAL SECTION G - S. B STREET AT RAMP
SCALE 
H: 1" = 10'
V: 1" = 5'
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
C2.01
TYPICAL
SECTIONS
112 of 1252

--- page 113 ---
UP
<
<
<
<<
<
<
X
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
FF=26.2
GFF=27.7
FF=29.2
FF=29.2
FF=27.2
FF=29.2
SUBSLAB=27.7
SUBSLAB=28.2
GFF B1=16.2
GFF B2=6.2
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
C3.00
PRELIMINARY
GRADING,
DRAINAGE
PLAN
NORTH
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
LEGEND
113 of 1252

--- page 114 ---
UP
<
<
<
<<
<
<
<
X
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
C4.00
PRELIMINARY
UTILITY PLAN
NORTH
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
PROPOSED PROJECT SEWER FLOWS
NOTE:
PROPOSED PROJECT WATER FLOWS
EXISTING PROJECT SEWER FLOWS
NET PROJECT SEWER FLOWS
LEGEND
114 of 1252

--- page 115 ---
X
DN
DN
TCM 01
DMA 17
DMA 16
DMA 09
DMA 15
DMA 12
DMA  05
DMA 02
DMA 13
DMA 14
DMA 04
DMA 10
DMA 11
DMA 03
DMA 06
DMA 08
DMA 07
DMA 01
DMA 01
TCM 08
TCM 03
TCM 02
TCM 09
TCM 07
TCM  05
TCM 15
TCM 12
TCM 13
TCM 14
TCM 04
TCM 10
TCM 11
TCM 06
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C5.00
PRELIMINARY
STORM WATER
QUALITY
CONTROL PLAN
NORTH
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
LEGEND
DMA
TCM
NOTES
FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER (ABOVE GRADE)
2
BIOTREATMENT POND (LINED)  SECTION VIEW
1
VARIES
VARIES
3:1 MAX
18"
VARIES-SEE PLAN
VARIES-SEE PLAN
FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER INSPECTION
AND MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
NON-PROPRIETARY MEDIA FILTER INSPECTION
AND MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
115 of 1252

--- page 116 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C5.01
PRELIMINARY
STORMWATER QUALITY
CONTROL NOTES, DETAILS
& CALCULATIONS
MEDIA FILTRATION  SYSTEM DETAIL 
1
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
116 of 1252

--- page 117 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C5.02
PRELIMINARY LOW IMPACT
DEVELOPMENT REDUCTION
CALCULATIONS
SAN MATEO
TRAIN STATION
PROJECT SITE
34 DU/AC
2.7 FAR
1
4 MILE RADIUS FROM 50% OF PROJECT SITE
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
117 of 1252

--- page 118 ---
UP
UP
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C6.00
VEHICLE
TURNING
ANALYSIS
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
NORTH
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
FIRE TRUCK TURNING
SU-30 TRUCK TURNING
LEGEND
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
118 of 1252

--- page 119 ---
UP
NORTH
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
C6.01
S. ELLSWORTH AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
GARBAGE TRUCK TURNING
VEHICLE
TURNING
ANALYSIS
LEGEND
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
119 of 1252

--- page 120 ---
UP
UP
NORTH
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
A19538-1
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
AS SHOWN
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054
Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com
05/05/2020 Pre-Application Set
A
10/21/2020 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
03/19/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
10/15/2021 Pre-App Resubmittal
D
02/04/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
E
04/22/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
F
06/15/2022 Pre-App Resubmittal
G
C6.02
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
DELIVERY
TRUCK
ARRIVAL
ANALYSIS
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
WB-67 TRUCK ENTERING FIRST
BOX TRUCK ENTERING FIRST
Steering Angle
Lock to Lock Time
Articulating Angle
WB-67
Trailer Track
Tractor Track
Trailer Width
Tractor Width
19.50
4.00
feet
8.50
8.50
:
8.00
8.00
:
:
:
0.00
3.00
45.50
15.00
53.00
:
:
: 6.0
28.4
75.0
Lock to Lock Time
SU-30
Width
Track
Steering Angle
4.00
20.00
feet
:
:
:
6.0
8.00
8.00
31.8
:
30.00
18.00
24.00
120 of 1252

--- page 121 ---
39
38
10
4
3
2
1
5
6
7
8
9
11
12
13
37
36
35
34
33
32
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
EXISTING TREE TO BE PROTECTED
EXISTING TREE TO BE RELOCATED
EXISTING TREE TO BE REMOVED
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-002
TREE PROTECTION PLAN
1/16"=1'-0"
121 of 1252

--- page 122 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
TREE INVENTORY
NA
L-003
122 of 1252

--- page 123 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
 $ 5 & + , 7 ( & 7 6
 . 2 5 7 +   6 8 1 6 ( 5 ,   + $ * ( <
     ( $ 6 7   7 +
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
 ! . $ 2 % !  # / # ( 2 ! .
 , ! . $ 3 # ! 0 %  ! 2 # ( ) 4 % # 4 5 2 %
      4 H I R D  3 T R E E T  Ú   
 3 A N  & R A N C I S C O  # !  ˇ    
            
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
SCALE
NA
SHEET TITLE
TREE INVENTORY
L-004
123 of 1252

--- page 124 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-005
TREE INVENTORY
NA
L-005
124 of 1252

--- page 125 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-006
TREE INVENTORY
NA
125 of 1252

--- page 126 ---
E. 4TH AVE.
E. 5TH AVE.
S. ELLSWORTH AVE.
S. B ST.
UP
608 sf
110
sf
119
sf
57
sf
56
sf
127
sf
23
sf
91
sf
140 sf
57
sf
243 sf
20
sf
411 sf
86 sf
169 sf
167 sf
197 sf
31 sf
31 sf
367 sf
56 sf
56 sf
56 sf
858 sf
280 sf
368 sf
248 sf
20 sf
20 sf
20 sf
20 sf
20 sf
110 sf
115 sf
2
200
4
200
1
200
3
200
2-01
2-02
2-03
3-01
5-03
2-02
5-01
0-01
5-11
5-11
3-01
2-01
2-03
2-03
0-01
7-02
2-01
2-02
5-11
7-01
7-01
7-01
0-01
2-02
2-02
5-08
5-07
2-01
0-01
2-03
2-01
7-01
0-01
7-01
2-02
2-02
5-07
5-08
2-02
0-01
2-02
0-01
2-01
7-01
7-01
7-01
7-02
7-02
7-01
7-01
7-01
8-01
5-03
2-01
5-11
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
8-01
7-01
7-01
8-01
7-01
8-01
5-06
TYP
5-04
5-04
TYP
5-02 TYP
TYP
TYP
5-02
TYP
2-02
5-05
5-05
TYP
5-02
2-02
5-07
5-07
3'-2"
3'-2"
3'-2"
6'-6"
6'-6"
3'-2"
3'-2"
3'-2"
2'-7"
10'-5"
3'-0"
2'-0"2'-0"
3'-0"
2'-0"2'-0"
7-02
0-01
3'-0"
1'-8"
1'-6"
3'-0"
2'-3"
1'-6"
TREES
CODE
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
CONT
QTY
REMARKS
Os
OLEA EUROPAEA 'SWAN HILL' TM
SWAN HILL OLIVE
---
4
Qh
QUERCUS HYPOLEUCOIDES
SILVERLEAF OAK
---
10
Qs
QUERCUS VIRGINIANA `SKY CLIMBER`
SKY CLIMBER SOUTHERN LIVE OAK
---
23
PLANT SCHEDULE
0 GENERAL
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
CURB CUT,
S.C.D.
2 PAVING +
EDGES
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
CONC. PAVING
C.I.P. INTEGRAL COLOR CONC. PAVING
CONC. UNIT
PAVING TYPE I
3"X12" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: PORCELAIN
STEPSTONE, INC
CONC. UNIT
PAVING TYPE II
3"X12" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: FRENCH GREY
STEPSTONE, INC
3 SITE WALLS
AND STAIRS
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
RAISED METAL
PLANTER
CUSTOM POWDERCOATED PLANTERS - COLOR: CHARCOAL
STREETLIFE, LLC
5 SITE
FURNISHINGS
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
WOOD BENCH
TYPE I
7`-8" WOOD BENCH WITH ARMREST, GALV. BASES
STREETLIFE, LLC
WOOD BENCH
TYPE II
9`-10" WOOD BENCH WITH ARMRESTS, GALV. STEEL BASES
STREETLIFE, LLC
WOOD BENCH
TYPE III
23"X23" WOOD CUBE BENCH, GALV. STEEL BASE
STREETLIFE, LLC
WOOD BENCH
TYPE IV
CUSTOM WOOD BENCH WITH ARMRESTS AT RAISED METAL PLANTERS
STREETLIFE, LLC
WOOD BENCH
TYPE V
WOOD BENCH AT TREE GRATE, STEEL BASES TO MATCH GRATES
STREETLIFE, LLC
WOOD DINING
TABLE
WOOD TABLE AND BECH WITH ARMREST, GALV. STEEL BASES
STREETLIFE, LLC
BIKE RACK
WELLE CIRCULAR RACK - STAINLESS FINISH
PALMER GROUP, LLC
TREE GRATE
POWDERCOATED STEEL TREE GRATE
STREETLIFE, LLC
MOVABLE SITE
FURNISHING
TBD FF&E BY OTHERS, SHOWN FOR REFERENCE
7 PLANTING
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NATIVE OR
ADAPTED
PLANTING
BIOTREATMENT
PLANTING
8 SITE LIGHTING
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION
SITE LIGHTING
SEE LIGHTING DRAWINGS
0-01
2-01
2-02
2-03
3-01
5-01
5-02
5-03
5-04
5-05
5-06
5-07
5-08
5-11
7-01
7-02
8-01
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
NOTES:
1. SEE L-205 FOR MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS IMAGES
2. SEE L-300 FOR FURNISHING DETAILS
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-100
LEVEL 1 LANDSCAPE PLAN
1/16"=1'-0"
126 of 1252

--- page 127 ---
E. 4TH AVE.
E. 5TH AVE.
S. ELLSWORTH AVE.
S. B ST.
DN
UP
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 1 BELOW
7-01
2-04
2-05
5-11
5-11
7-01
7-01
2-04
5-11
2-05
7-01
7-01
7-01
2-04
5-11
7-01
2-04
LEVEL 1
BELOW
5-11
5-11
5-11
2-05
5-01
2-05
5-01
7-01
5-01
7-01
7-01
5-11
5-01
2-04
5-11
7-01
2-04
2-05
5-11
5-11
7-01
5-01
2-04
LEVEL 1
BELOW
2-07
2-07
2-07
2-07
2-07
2-07
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
294 sf
162 sf
62 sf
179 sf
154 sf
409 sf
294 sf
172 sf
295 sf
128 sf
123 sf
107 sf
146 sf
123 sf
86
sf
123 sf
5 sf
4 sf
5 sf
4 sf
7-01
2 PAVING + EDGES
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE I
18"X36" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: FRENCH GREY
STEPSTONE, INC.
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE II
18"X36" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: PORCELAIN
STEPSTONE, INC.
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE IV
24"X48" THERMALLY MODIFIED ASH DECKING TILES
THERMORY
ACCESS GRATING
STAINLESS STEEL PRESSED GRATING
5 SITE FURNISHINGS
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
WOOD BENCH TYPE I
7`-8" WOOD BENCH WITH ARMREST, GALV. BASES
STREETLIFE, LLC
MOVABLE SITE
FURNISHING
TBD FF&E BY OTHERS, SHOWN FOR REFERENCE
7 PLANTING
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NATIVE OR ADAPTED
PLANTING
2-04
2-05
2-07
2-08
5-01
5-11
7-01
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-101
LEVEL 3 LANDSCAPE PLAN
1/16"=1'-0"
127 of 1252

--- page 128 ---
E. 4TH AVE.
E. 5TH AVE.
S. ELLSWORTH AVE.
S. B ST.
1,912 SF
TERRAC
312
4,118 SF
TERRACE
313
DN
UP
LEVEL 1
BELOW
2-07
LEVEL 3
BELOW
2-07
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 3
BELOW
LEVEL 3
BELOW
2 PAVING + EDGES
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE IV
24"X48" THERMALLY MODIFIED ASH DECKING TILES
THERMORY
2-07
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-102
LEVEL 4 LANDSCAPE PLAN
1/16"=1'-0"
128 of 1252

--- page 129 ---
DN
DN
A-210
1
A-210
3
A-210
2
E. 4TH AVE.
E. 5TH AVE.
S. ELLSWORTH AVE.
S. B ST.
START MODULE
START MODULE
269 sf
247 sf
259
sf
333
sf
177 sf
439 sf
438 sf
943 sf
762 sf
144
sf
1014 sf
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 3
BELOW
LEVEL 1
BELOW
TRELLIS, S.A.D.
2-04
5-11
5-11
5-01
2-04
5-11
5-11
5-11
LEVEL 1
BELOW
LEVEL 3
BELOW
5-01
2-07
2-07
2-06
5-11
2-05
LEVEL 3
BELOW
LEVEL 1
BELOW
5-09
3-01
3-01
3-01
3-01
3-01
3-01
3-01
3-01
5-11
5-11
5-10
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
2-08
5-10
2 PAVING + EDGES
SYMB
OL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE I
18"X36" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: FRENCH GREY
STEPSTONE, INC.
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE II
18"X36" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: PORCELAIN
STEPSTONE, INC.
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE III
30"X30" PRECAST CONC. PAVERS - COLOR: PORCELAIN
STEPSTONE, INC.
PEDESTAL PAVING
TYPE IV
24"X48" THERMALLY MODIFIED ASH DECKING TILES
THERMORY
ACCESS GRATING
STAINLESS STEEL PRESSED GRATING
3 SITE WALLS AND
STAIRS
SYMB
OL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
RAISED METAL
PLANTER
CUSTOM POWDERCOATED PLANTERS - COLOR: CHARCOAL
STREETLIFE, LLC
5 SITE FURNISHINGS
SYMB
OL
DESCRIPTION
NOTES
SOURCE
WOOD BENCH TYPE I 7`-8" WOOD BENCH WITH ARMREST, GALV. BASES
STREETLIFE, LLC
BBQ
CUSTOM BBQ AREA
SCREEN
SEE ARCH DRAWINGS
MOVABLE SITE
FURNISHING
TBD FF&E BY OTHERS, SHOWN FOR REFERENCE
2-04
2-05
2-06
2-07
2-08
3-01
5-01
5-09
5-10
5-11
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-103
ROOF LANDSCAPE PLAN
1/16"=1'-0"
129 of 1252

--- page 130 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-200
STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
AS NOTED
SCALE:
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
TYPICAL SECTION
1/4" = 1'-0
TRAVEL
LANE(S) S.C.D.
TRAVEL LANE
S.C.D.
 PARKING
ZONE
S.C.D.
GUTTER
S.C.D.
TREE BEYOND
6" CURB
4'-0"
FURNISHING
ZONE BEHIND
6'-6"
THROUGH
ZONE BEHIND
4'-6"
FRONTAGE
ZONE BEHIND
PLANTING
BEYOND
1'-6"
PROPERTY LINE
5'-0"
10'-6"
SCALE:
B-STREET
TYPICAL SECTION
1/4" = 1'-0
GUTTER
S.C.D.
TRAVEL
LANE(S) S.C.D.
6" CURB
LOADING
ZONE
S.C.D.
PROPERTY LINE
6'-0"
10"-0"
1'-6"
11'-0"
THROUGH ZONE
4'-6"
TREE
PLANTING
1'
SCALE:
0
2'
4'
8'
E 4TH AVENUE
TYPICAL SECTION
1/4" = 1'-0
TRAVEL LANE(S)
S.C.D.
PARKING ZONE S.C.D.
4'-0"
FURNISHING
ZONE
4'-0"
FRONTAGE
ZONE
7'-4"
THROUGH
ZONE
6"
CURB
GUTTER
S.C.D.
1'-6"
TREE BEYOND
PLANTING
BEYOND
PROPERTY LINE
9'-0"
6'-10"
1'
SCALE:
0
2'
4'
8'
E 5TH AVENUE
TYPICAL SECTION
1/4" = 1'-0
4'-0"
FRONTAGE
ZONE
BIKE LANE
S.C.D.
TRAVEL LANE
S.C.D.
TRAVEL LANE(S)
S.C.D.
4'-0"
FURNISHING
ZONE
GUTTER S.C.D.
6" CURB
7'-6"
THROUGH
ZONE
1'-6"
PROPERTY LINE
1'-0"
15'-0"
130 of 1252

--- page 131 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-201
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
N.A.
4TH & ELLSWORTH AERIAL
PARKLET FROM 4TH & ELLSWORTH
CONCEPTUAL LANDSCAPE SHOWN AT ROOFTOP TERRACES
131 of 1252

--- page 132 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-202
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
N.A.
AERIAL OF PARKLET AT 4TH & ELLSWORTH
PARKLET AT 4TH AND ELLSWORTH FROM ELLSWORTH
CONCEPTUAL LANDSCAPE SHOWN AT ROOFTOP TERRACES
132 of 1252

--- page 133 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-203
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
N.A.
ELLSWORTH STREETSCAPE AND BUILDING ENTRY
STREETSCAPE AND ENTRY AT 4TH & B STREET
133 of 1252

--- page 134 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-204
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS
N.A.
4TH AVE & B STREET AERIAL
 B STREET STREETSCAPE & 5TH AVE
134 of 1252

--- page 135 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-205
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND
FURNISHING IMAGERY
N.A.
BENCH T<PES I 	 II
BENCH T<PE III
RAISED METAL PLANTER 	 BENCH T<PE IV
:OOD DININ* TABLE
PEDESTAL PAVIN* T<PE III
CONCRETE PAVIN*
BI.E RAC. AT UNIT PAVIN*
PRECAST PAVER COLORS
UNIT PAVIN* T<PE I 	 II
:OOD DININ* TABLE
BENCH T<PE I 	 II
BENCH T<PE V
PEDESTAL PAVIN* T<PE I 	 II
PEDESTAL PAVIN* T<PE IV
135 of 1252

--- page 136 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
F
04/22/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
G
06/15/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-300
SITE FURNISHING DETAILS
AS NOTED
2'
SCALE:
0
1'
3'
WOOD BENCH TYPE I
TYPICAL SECTION
1"=1'-0"
FRONT
SIDE
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
10"
1'-0"
3"
MIN
10"
2'-0"
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
ARMREST
7'-8 1/8"
2'
SCALE:
0
1'
3'
WOOD BENCH TYPE II
TYPICAL SECTION
1"=1'-0"
FRONT
SIDE
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
1'-0"
3"
MIN
10"
2'-0"
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
10"
9'-10 1/8"
ARMREST
ARMREST
2'
SCALE:
0
1'
3'
WOOD BENCH TYPE III
TYPICAL SECTION
1"=1'-0"
SIDE
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
CONC. UNIT PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
10"
1'-6"
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
FRONT
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
CONC. UNIT PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
10"
1'-6"
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
1'-5 3/4"
1'-11 1/4"
1'-5 3/4"
1'-11 1/4"
2'
SCALE:
0
1'
3'
PICNIC TABLE AND BENCH
TYPICAL SECTION
1"=1'-0"
FRONT
10"
2'-6 1/4"
3"
MIN
3"
MIN
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
3/8" THREADED ROD,
EPOXIED INTO FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
FASTEN PER
MANUFACTURERS SPEC
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR TABLE
ARMREST
3'-11 1/4"
PLAN
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR TABLE
ARMREST
3'-7 1/4"
1'-3 1/2"
3'-7 1/8"
TABLE FOOTING, BEHIND
2'
SCALE:
0
1'
3'
WOOD BENCH TYPE V
TYPICAL SECTION
1"=1'-0"
FRONT
10"
1'-0"
COMPACTED CLASS II
AGGREGATE BASE,
S.C.D.
REINFORCED CONC.
FOOTING
ADJACENT CONC. UNIT
PAVING
METAL TREE GRATE, SEE
MATERIALS PLAN AND
SPECS.
SEE MATERIALS PLANS
AND SPECS FOR BENCH
MODEL
ARMREST
4'-6"
MULCH
TREE PLANTING SOIL
136 of 1252

--- page 137 ---
UP
OFFICE/CAFETERIA TRASH ROOM
SEE SHEET T1.0
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR
SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES,
DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK, WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY
TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY
DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED
IMMEDIATELY 
OF 
ALL 
EXISTING 
FIELD 
CONDITIONS 
AND 
ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
FIFTH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
B STREET
GROCERY
TRASH
ROOM
SEE SHEET
T1.2
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
1/30" = 1'-0"
SITE PLAN
LEVEL 1
T0.1
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
137 of 1252

--- page 138 ---
W
W
W
W
1
7
9
A
C
D
E
F
J
3
6
2
8
4
H
B
5
G
RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM
SEE SHEET TR1.1
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR
SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES,
DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK, WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY
TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY
DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED
IMMEDIATELY 
OF 
ALL 
EXISTING 
FIELD 
CONDITIONS 
AND 
ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
B STREET
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
1/20" = 1'-0"
KEY PLAN
TYPICAL UPPER LEVEL
T0.2
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
138 of 1252

--- page 139 ---
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
OFFICE/CAFETERIA STAGING
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR
SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES,
DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK, WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY
TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY
DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED
IMMEDIATELY 
OF 
ALL 
EXISTING 
FIELD 
CONDITIONS 
AND 
ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
PROJECTED OFFICE/CAFETERIA COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
2x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 2CY FL COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
UP
FIFTH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
B STREET
BIN PATH
OF TRAVEL
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
Note: Per Recology's feedback, this
area will be serviced from 3am-12pm,
if there are no delays. A sign will be
placed in front of the 5 parking spaces
noting these will not be available
during trash service hours. For
example, the sign will state "No
Parking on Mondays-Fridays from
10pm-12pm. Garbage Pick-Up Zone".
Once these bins are picked up by
Recology, building staff will
immediately bring back the containers
to free up these parking spaces for
public use.
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
J
D
E
F
J
H
G
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
BIN PATH
OF TRAVEL
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
1/50" = 1'-0"
T0.3
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
STAGING DETAILS
OFFICE & CAFETERIA
1/16" = 1'-0"
139 of 1252

--- page 140 ---
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
RESIDENTIAL & GROCERY  STAGING
BIN/CART
PATH OF
TRAVEL
FRONT LOAD
PICK UP VEHICLE
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR
SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES,
DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK, WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY
TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY
DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED
IMMEDIATELY 
OF 
ALL 
EXISTING 
FIELD 
CONDITIONS 
AND 
ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
PROJECTED RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
3 x 96G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
1x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 64G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
1x/wk
1x/wk
3 x 96G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
PROJECTED GROCERY COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
3x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 2CY FL COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
UP
FIFTH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
B STREET
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
BIN/CART
PATH OF
TRAVEL
FRONT LOAD
PICK UP VEHICLE
B STREET
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
35ft Front End Loader
1/50" = 1'-0"
STAGING DETAILS
RESIDENTIAL & GROCERY
T0.4
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
140 of 1252

--- page 141 ---
1
H
4CY
COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
RECYCLING
64G CART
PP
PP
64G CART
4CY
COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
WASTE
APOLLO
A1000
COMPACTOR
APOLLO
A1000
COMPACTOR
P200 VERTICAL
COMPACTOR
W/2CY CONTAINER
COMPOST
14'-3" ROLL UP DOOR
CONCRETE CURB WALL
PROTECTION TYP U.O.N.
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET, TYP U.O.N.
ELEC. PALLET JACK
OC
DISCONNECT
(TYP)
DISCONNECT (TYP)
DISCONNECT (TYP)
OFFICE/CAFETERIA TRASH ROOM PLAN
LEVEL 1
B-B
-
A-A
-
FD
HB
SHEET NOTES:
COMMERCIAL TRASH COLLECTION ROOM - LEVEL 1
1.
CENTRAL TRASH COLLECTION AREA IS 1HR FIRE-RATED - RESTRICTED ACCESS.
2.
FLOOR SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING. FLOOR TO HAVE MINIMAL SLOPE (1° MAX)
AND FLOOR DRAIN. FLOOR LEVEL UNDER COMPACTOR.
3.
WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF SURFACE SUCH AS FRP OR HIGH-GLOSS ENAMEL
PAINT, 8'-0" AFF.
4.
INSTALL WALL PROTECTION: 12"Hx6"W CONCRETE CURB AT BASE OF ALL NON-CONCRETE WALLS.
5.
14'-3" ROLL-UP DOOR, 6'-0" DOUBLE-SWING DOOR, AND 3'-0" EXIT DOOR.
6.
(2) A1000 SELF CONTAINED COMPACTORS FOR WASTEAND RECYCLING. PROVIDE 4CY COMPACTOR
CONTAINERS.
7.
(1) P200 COMPACTOR WITH INTERNAL P0WER PACK AND 2CY BIN FOR COMPOST. 2HP, 115/230V, 1 PHASE
SERVICE REQUIRED.  DISCONNECT MOUNTED 60" AFF.
8.
PP: COMPACTOR POWER PACKS AND LIFT POWER PACKS SHALL BE STACKED & FLOOR-MOUNTED. SEE DETAIL
FOR HP PER POWER PACK. EACH PACK IS 3-PHASE, 208/230/460V. EACH PP NEEDS 30A DISCONNECT, 60" AFF.
9.
OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. REQUIRES 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET.
10. HB: HOT AND COLD HOSE BIB SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
15. (1) UNDEDICATED 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED FOR STAFF MAINTENANCE PURPOSE.
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES, DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK,
WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS,
OR WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING
SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION.
THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED IMMEDIATELY OF ALL EXISTING FIELD CONDITIONS AND ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
2CY CONTAINER
4CY CONTAINER
4" BOLLARD
(TYP)
POWER PACK
2HP 1PH 115/230V
APOLLO A 1000 COMPACTOR
W/ 64 GAL CART AND
BAYNE TASKMASTER HI-LIFT DUMPER
A1000 COMPACTOR
APOLLO A 1000 COMPACTOR
W/ 64 GAL CART AND
BAYNE TASKMASTER HI-LIFT DUMPER
P200 COMPACTOR
W/ 2CY CONTAINER
6'-0"
DOUBLE-SWING
DOOR
C-C
PROJECTED OFFICE/CAFETERIA COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
2x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 2CY FL COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
3/16" = 1'-0"
Office/Cafeteria Trash Collection Room Layout
T1.0
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
141 of 1252

--- page 142 ---
3
G
SHEET NOTES:
RESIDENTIAL TRASH CLOSET - LEVEL 1:
1.
FLOOR SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING.
2.
WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF SURFACE SUCH
AS FRP OR HIGH GLOSS ENAMEL PAINT, 8'-0" AFF.
3.
OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. REQUIRES
120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET.
4.
PROVIDE 3' ACCESS DOOR.
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR DESIGN SOLUTIONS PRESENTED IN THIS DRAWING OR
SPECIFICATION, WHICH ARE DIRECT OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING NARRATIVES,
DRAWINGS, OR DIAGRAMS, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS OR DESIGNS SUITABLE
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
2.
OMISSIONS FROM DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, OR THE INACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF DETAILS OF WORK, WHICH ARE MANIFESTLY NECESSARY
TO CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY PERFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR INACCURATELY
DESCRIBED DETAILS OF THE WORK. WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED AS IF
FULLY AND CORRECTLY SET FORTH AND DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED
IMMEDIATELY 
OF 
ALL 
EXISTING 
FIELD 
CONDITIONS 
AND 
ANY
DISCREPANCIES OR INCONSISTENCIES.
3'-0"
ACCESS
DOOR
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET, TYP U.O.N.
OC
RESIDENTIAL TRASH CLOSET PLAN
LEVEL 5 
64G CART
COMPOST
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
RECYCLE
96G CART
WASTE
96G CART
WASTE
96G CART
WASTE
PROJECTED RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
3 x 96G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
1x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 64G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
1x/wk
1x/wk
3 x 96G LOOSE TOTER CARTS
3/8" = 1'-0"
Residential Trash Closet Layout
T1.1
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
142 of 1252

--- page 143 ---
SHEET NOTES:
BUILDING 1. COMMERCIAL TRASH ROOM. LEVEL 1
1.
TRASH COLLECTION ROOM IS 1HR FIRE-RATED - RESTRICTED
ACCESS.
2.
FLOORS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING
WITH MINIMAL SLOPE AND FLOOR DRAIN. LEVEL FLOOR UNDER
COMPACTORS.
3.
WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF
SURFACE SUCH AS FRP OR HIGH-GLOSS ENAMEL PAINT 8'-0" AFF.
4.
WALL PROTECTION: 14" THICK STEEL DIAMOND TREAD BACKING
ALONG WALL BEHIND COMPACTORS 6'-0" AFF.
5.
(2) 10'-0" WIDE ROLL-UP DOORS FOR TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS.
6.
ROOM SHALL BE MECHANICALLY VENTILATED WITH (1) CFM/SF PER
2019 CBC.
7.
APOLLO MODEL A1000 SINGLE-SIDE LATCH HAND-FED STATIONARY
COMPACTORS FOR WASTE AND RECYCLING.
8.
PP: POWER PACKS SHALL BE COMPACTOR- MOUNTED. (2) 5HP
3-PHASE, 208/230/460V. 30A DISCONNECTS 60" AFF. PROVIDE 4CY FL
COMPACTOR CONTAINERS FOR DISPOSAL.
9.
AC: 2HP CHUTE AIR COMPRESSOR SHALL BE FLOOR-MOUNTED.
10. OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
11. HB: HOT AND COLD HOSE BIBB SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
12. PROVIDE ELECTRIC PALLET TRUCK FOR TRANSFERRING
CONTAINERS. 4000LB CAPACITY WITH 45.5" TURNING RADIUS.
STORE IN BUILDING 1 RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM.
13. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLETS REQUIRED FOR ALL EQUIPMENT
(U.O.N.).
14. STORE CARDBOARD BALES ELSEWHERE.
GENERAL NOTES.
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT
OR IMPLIED, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL
NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE
SUBMITTAL PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2.
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE
DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE
NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL
WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE BUILDING CODES.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND
CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT
SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES AND/OR
DISCREPANCIES.
COMMERCIAL TRASH ROOM PLAN
PROTOTYPE ONLY
PROJECTED GROCERY COLLECTION SCHEDULE/WK
WASTE
RECYCLING
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
3x/wk
COMPOST
1 X 2CY FL COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
1 x 4CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINER
1HR FIRE-RATED WALL BY
OTHERS (S.A.D.) SEE NOTE 3
HB
120V 15A
SERVICE OUTLET
460V 20A SERVICE
OUTLET, TYP U.O.N.
FD
P200 VERTICAL COMPACTOR
W/ 2CY CONTAINER
COMPOST
14'-0" WIDE ROLL-UP DOOR
OC
C-C
-
SIM
4CY FL
COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
WASTE
APOLLO MODEL A1000 SSL HF
STATIONARY COMPACTOR
(2) TOTAL, SEE NOTE 7
PP
14" THICK STEEL DIAMOND TREAD
BACKING, SEE NOTE 4
GROCERY TRASH ROOM
RESTRICTED AREA
SEE NOTE 1
TVB-60 CARDBOARD
BALER
30A DISCONNECT
4CY FL
COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
RECYCLING
PP
GROCERY BOH
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY
(S.A.D.)
30A DISCONNECT
(2) TOTAL
60 x 48
 CARDBOARD
BALE
60 x 48
 CARDBOARD
BALE
60 x 48
 CARDBOARD
BALE
SCALE
3/16" = 1'-0"
Grocery Trash Room Prototype
T1.2
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
SBROWN@TRASHMANAGE.COM
DRAWING TITLE
PROJECT NO.
PROJECT
PH
DRAWN
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
DRAWING NO.
SB
06/03/2022
CONSULTANT
ARCHITECT
OWNER / DEVELOPER
NO.
DATE
ISSUED BY
ISSUE / REVISION
KSH
KSH-222 E 4th-San Mateo
LANE PARTNERS
143 of 1252

--- page 144 ---
FIFTH AVENUE
B STREET
FOURTH AVENUE
ELLSWORTH AVENUE
LOADING
0' - 0"
-1' - 0"
-1' - 6"
-2' - 0"
0' - 0"
-1' - 6"
5' - 0"
19' - 6"
170' - 0"
19' - 6"
6' - 0"
1' - 0"
5' - 0"
212' - 0"
6' - 10"
COMMUNITY 
OPEN SPACE
2,070 SF
OUTDOOR DINING 
SPACE
1,450 SF
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF 
TRAVEL, TYPICAL
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF 
TRAVEL, TYPICAL
6' - 10"
60' - 9"
151' - 3"
5' - 0"
1' - 0"
5' - 0"
47' - 0"
162' - 0"
6' - 0"
COMMUNITY 
PARKLET
COMMUNITY 
PARKLET
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
1/16" = 1'-0"
A-101
SITE PLAN
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 1 SITE PLAN
TRUE 
NORTH
N
No. Date
Description
A
5/5/20
Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
B
B
B
B
6'-10"
Tower
Crane
Manlift
Delivery Staging Area
Man Gate
Devcon Trailer
Perimeter
Fencing
De-watering
Filtration and
Generators
Restrooms
Material Staging
Areas
De-watering
wells (located
schematically)
5'-0"
3'-0"
Devcon to
maintain bike
lane access
DEV-101
pp
B
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-App Resubmittal
144 of 1252

--- page 145 ---
Image
Quantity
Manufacturer
Catalog Number
Description
Number 
Lamps
Lumens 
Per Lamp
Light Loss 
Factor
Wattage
Plot
17
King Luminaire
K100WR-B3AR-IV-
100(SST)-1054
1
5376
1
104
47
LEDRA BRANDS
NU6-QD-XTM19-13LM-30K-83-D70-120-
DIM10-RET-WH-WH
1
1045
1
13.67
3
WILLIAMS INDOOR
75S-4-L50-835-DIM-
UNV
4' LED STRIP LUMINAIRE WHITE 
REFLECTOR w/FROSTED ACRYLIC SQUARE 
LENS
1
4862
0.2
33
0
King Luminaire
K100WR-B3AR-IV-
100(SST)-1054
1
5376
1
104
1
King Luminaire
K100WR-B3AR-IV-
100(SST)-1054
1
5376
1
104
1
CREE, INC.
XSPAx3HA-U or 
BXSPAx3HA-U
DOUBLE LED MODULE TYPE III 4000K XSP2
10
960
1
99.5
1
CREE, INC.
XSPAx3HA-U or 
BXSPAx3HA-U
DOUBLE LED MODULE TYPE III 4000K XSP2
10
960
1
99.5
1
CREE, INC.
XSPAx3HA-U or 
BXSPAx3HA-U
DOUBLE LED MODULE TYPE III 4000K XSP2
10
960
1
99.5
1
CREE, INC.
XSPAx3HA-U or 
BXSPAx3HA-U
DOUBLE LED MODULE TYPE III 4000K XSP2
10
960
1
99.5
1
Cree Inc
BXSP-B-xx-3ME-B-40K-
UL
XSP LED Streetlight, Double module, 
Version B, Type III Medium, 4000K CCT
1
10073
1
99.37
1
CREE, INC.
STR-LWY-2M-**-06-E-
UL-525-40K (525mA)    
CONFIGURED FROM STR-
-LWY-2M-**-06-E-UL-
700-40K or BXSL*206E-
UD7 (700mA)
CONFIGURED FROM 60 LED Type II 
Medium Optic, 700mA 4000K LEDway 
Streetlight
60
150
1
100
1
Cree Inc
BXSP-B-xx-3ME-B-40K-
UL
XSP LED Streetlight, Double module, 
Version B, Type III Medium, 4000K CCT
1
10073
1
99.37
1
Leotek Electronics USA 
Corp, San Jose CA 
95131.
GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-
530 Scaled from GC1-
80F-MV-NW-3-GY-700 
LLI-14304-1
Leotek Spigot-mounted 80 LED Street light. 
Cat No. GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-530 Gray 
powder coated cast aluminum housing with 
vertical cooling fins above LEDs. 
Removable, hinged,  gear housing door. 80 
"Luxeon 'T' LED's" in 10x8 arrangement, 
luminous opening 9.5"L x 7.5"W. Two Lite-
On Power LED Drivers, Model No: PA-1101-
18SL 100-277Vac 50/60Hz. Tested at 120V 
60Hz with luminous opening horizontal.  
Dimming set to 530mA
80
177
1
133.5
1
Leotek Electronics USA 
Corp, San Jose CA 
95131.
GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-
530 Scaled from GC1-
80F-MV-NW-3-GY-700 
LLI-14304-1
Leotek Spigot-mounted 80 LED Street light. 
Cat No. GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-530 Gray 
powder coated cast aluminum housing with 
vertical cooling fins above LEDs. 
Removable, hinged,  gear housing door. 80 
"Luxeon 'T' LED's" in 10x8 arrangement, 
luminous opening 9.5"L x 7.5"W. Two Lite-
On Power LED Drivers, Model No: PA-1101-
18SL 100-277Vac 50/60Hz. Tested at 120V 
60Hz with luminous opening horizontal.  
Dimming set to 530mA
80
177
0.75
133.5
1
Leotek Electronics USA 
Corp, San Jose CA 
95131.
GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-
530 Scaled from GC1-
80F-MV-NW-3-GY-700 
LLI-14304-1
Leotek Spigot-mounted 80 LED Street light. 
Cat No. GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-530 Gray 
powder coated cast aluminum housing with 
vertical cooling fins above LEDs. 
Removable, hinged,  gear housing door. 80 
"Luxeon 'T' LED's" in 10x8 arrangement, 
luminous opening 9.5"L x 7.5"W. Two Lite-
On Power LED Drivers, Model No: PA-1101-
18SL 100-277Vac 50/60Hz. Tested at 120V 
60Hz with luminous opening horizontal.  
Dimming set to 530mA
80
177
1
133.5
1
Leotek Electronics USA 
Corp, San Jose CA 
95131.
GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-
530 Scaled from GC1-
80F-MV-NW-3-GY-700 
LLI-14304-1
Leotek Spigot-mounted 80 LED Street light. 
Cat No. GC1-80F-MV-NW-3-GY-530 Gray 
powder coated cast aluminum housing with 
vertical cooling fins above LEDs. 
Removable, hinged,  gear housing door. 80 
"Luxeon 'T' LED's" in 10x8 arrangement, 
luminous opening 9.5"L x 7.5"W. Two Lite-
On Power LED Drivers, Model No: PA-1101-
18SL 100-277Vac 50/60Hz. Tested at 120V 
60Hz with luminous opening horizontal.  
Dimming set to 530mA
80
177
1
133.5
1
King Luminaire
K803-P4RAD-III-
100(SSL)-8060
NVLAP LOGO AND LAB ID NUMBER SHALL 
NOT BE USED BY THE CLIENT TO CLAIM 
THE PRODUCT CERTIFICATION, APPROVAL, 
OR ENDORSEMENT BY NVLAP, NIST, OR 
ANY GOVERNMENT AGENCY
1
11896
0.75
90
1
King Luminaire
K803-P4RAD-III-
100(SSL)-8060
NVLAP LOGO AND LAB ID NUMBER SHALL 
NOT BE USED BY THE CLIENT TO CLAIM 
THE PRODUCT CERTIFICATION, APPROVAL, 
OR ENDORSEMENT BY NVLAP, NIST, OR 
ANY GOVERNMENT AGENCY
1
11896
1
90
1
CREE, INC.
STR-LWY-2M-**-08-E-
UL-525-40K (525mA)    
CONFIGURED FROM STR-
-LWY-2M-**-06-E-UL-
700-40K or BXSL*206E-
UD7 (700mA)
CONFIGURED FROM 60 LED Type II 
Medium Optic, 700mA 4000K LEDway 
Streetlight
80
150
1
135
1
CREE, INC.
STR-LWY-2M-**-08-E-
UL-525-40K (525mA)    
CONFIGURED FROM STR-
-LWY-2M-**-06-E-UL-
700-40K or BXSL*206E-
UD7 (700mA)
CONFIGURED FROM 60 LED Type II 
Medium Optic, 700mA 4000K LEDway 
Streetlight
80
150
1
135
1
CREE, INC.
STR-LWY-2M-**-08-E-
UL-525-40K (525mA)    
CONFIGURED FROM STR-
-LWY-2M-**-06-E-UL-
700-40K or BXSL*206E-
UD7 (700mA)
CONFIGURED FROM 60 LED Type II 
Medium Optic, 700mA 4000K LEDway 
Streetlight
80
150
1
135
1
CREE, INC.
STR-LWY-2M-**-08-E-
UL-525-40K (525mA)    
CONFIGURED FROM STR-
-LWY-2M-**-06-E-UL-
700-40K or BXSL*206E-
UD7 (700mA)
CONFIGURED FROM 60 LED Type II 
Medium Optic, 700mA 4000K LEDway 
Streetlight
80
150
1
135
1
Cree Inc
BXSPCxx3MEF40K-UL 
CONFIGURED FROM 
BXSPCxx3MEF30K-
xxxxxx
CONFIGURED FROM Cree XSP Series 
Area/Street Luminaire, Double Module, 
Type III Medium, 3000K, F Input Power 
Designator
1
13433
1
139
1
Cree Inc
BXSPCxx3MEF40K-UL 
CONFIGURED FROM 
BXSPCxx3MEF30K-
xxxxxx
CONFIGURED FROM Cree XSP Series 
Area/Street Luminaire, Double Module, 
Type III Medium, 3000K, F Input Power 
Designator
1
13433
1
139
0
Cree Inc
XSPSM-D-HT-2ME-5L-
30K7-Ux-xx-N 
CONFIGURED FROM 
XSPSM-D-HT-2ME-5L-
40K7-UL-SV-N
CONFIGURED FROM XSPSM LED 
Street/Area Luminaire - Small, 5L Lumen 
Package, Type II Medium Optic 
Distribution, 40k CCT, 70 CRI
1
5075
1
47
0
C
I
XSPMD D HT 2ME 12L
CONFIGURED FROM XSPLG LED
1
11475
1
95
222 E 4th Ave,
 San Mateo, CA
 Designer
2.5
2.7
2.7
2.6
2.8
3.2
3.4
3.4
3.3
3.1
2.8
2.5
2.9
3.2
3.1
2.9
2.9
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.7
3.6
3.3
2.9
3.3
3.4
3.3
3.0
2.8
3.0
3.4
3.8
4.1
4.2
3.8
3.1
3.4
3.5
3.3
3.0
2.9
3.0
3.4
4.0
4.6
4.8
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.3
3.1
3.1
3.3
3.8
4.6
5.1
5.3
3.5
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.4
3.5
3.9
4.4
5.2
5.7
5.6
3.5
3.5
3.7
3.9
4.2
4.6
5.1
5.8
5.8
3.6
3.8
4.2
4.6
5.1
5.6
6.0
5.9
3.6
4.0
4.4
5.0
5.4
5.4
2.1
6.1
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.6
0.7
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.2
1.5
1.6
0.6
0.8
1.1
1.6
2.2
2.8
3.2
0.8
1.0
1.4
2.0
2.7
3.5
3.8
0.9
1.1
1.4
2.0
2.8
3.3
3.3
1.0
1.3
1.7
2.2
3.9
3.2
1.2
1.5
2.0
3.2
3.4
3.1
2.1
1.1
1.5
2.0
3.3
2.7
0.2
4.4
2.7
2.5
3.4
3.7
2.8
3.3
2.6
3.2
2.9
3.8
3.5
3.0
3.8
2.2
2.9
3.3
3.4
3.2
3.7
3.9
3.9
3.4
2.8
3.4
3.6
3.5
3.7
3.6
3.9
3.0
3.0
3.4
3.7
3.8
3.5
3.7
2.2
2.8
3.4
3.4
3.4
3.3
3.4
3.4
2.1
2.4
3.0
3.1
2.9
3.2
3.7
3.3
2.6
2.4
2.9
3.4
2.9
2.3
2.1
3.3
3.1
2.4
1.9
4.7
4.7
3.0
2.7
2.5
2.3
2.1
2.1
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.9
2.1
2.4
2.5
2.8
2.8
4.1
3.9
3.5
3.5
3.8
3.1
2.7
2.8
2.6
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.0
1.8
1.8
1.9
2.3
2.4
2.2
2.6
2.9
2.8
3.0
3.7
3.8
3.5
3.0
2.6
2.5
4.2
4.4
3.6
3.0
3.1
3.2
3.5
3.3
3.2
3.1
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.6
1.6
1.9
2.2
2.3
3.0
3.4
3.5
3.7
3.4
3.4
3.5
2.8
2.6
2.7
2.8
3.9
3.1
2.5
2.5
2.4
3.0
4.4
4.2
4.4
3.8
2.0
1.7
1.8
1.4
1.4
1.8
1.7
2.0
3.8
4.7
4.3
3.4
2.6
2.7
2.5
2.6
2.9
3.1
2.2
1.8
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.8
2.3
3.3
4.1
2.8
1.2
1.2
4.8
3.0
3.5
3.5
3.3
3.1
2.8
2.6
3.1
3.6
3.7
3.7
3.9
3.8
2.9
2.7
3.4
4.0
4.4
4.3
4.4
4.8
4.1
3.1
3.0
2.9
3.3
4.1
4.7
5.0
5.1
4.9
4.0
3.2
3.0
3.1
3.1
3.4
4.5
5.3
5.0
4.1
3.2
2.6
3.1
3.1
3.2
4.2
4.9
4.7
4.7
4.5
3.3
2.5
2.9
2.9
3.0
3.9
3.9
3.6
3.6
3.6
2.9
2.2
2.5
2.9
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.1
2.6
2.2
2.6
3.0
2.0
2.0
5.4
4.1 3.9
3.6 3.5
2.7
2.8
2.6 2.1 1.9 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.7 2.5 3.4 3.7 4.0
3.0
3.0
2.2
2.7
2.2
3.2 1.7 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.4 3.2 3.6 2.9 2.8 3.3 2.9 2.2 1.8 1.7 1.4 1.3
1.7 3.1 4.7 5.8
5.9 5.7 4.7 4.2 4.4 4.9 4.9 5.3 5.6 5.1 4.1 2.5
1.2
6.1
1.2 1.2 1.3 1.5 1.9 2.2 1.9 1.4
1.2 1.4 2.1 2.7 2.5 2.6 2.5 2.9 2.9 3.1 2.2 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.7 2.4 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.7 3.1 3.1 3.2 2.3 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.8 2.1 2.8 2.9 2.9 2.7 2.9 3.1 3.3 3.1 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.8 3.9 4.5
1.1
4.6
3.3
3.5
3.7
3.9
3.9
2.9
3.0
3.0
3.0
2.9
2.5
2.5
2.6
2.5
2.3
2.1
1.7
2.1
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.6
1.4
1.9
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.5
1.4
2.4
2.3
2.0
1.9
1.7
1.4
3.8
2.7
2.5
2.2
1.9
1.6
3.1
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.3
1.9
2.3
2.6
2.8
2.9
2.9
2.8
2.4
1.6
1.8
2.1
2.5
2.9
3.2
3.3
3.0
1.3
1.5
1.8
2.2
2.8
3.4
3.7
3.4
1.2
1.3
1.6
2.1
2.7
3.5
3.8
3.5
1.2
1.2
1.5
2.0
2.6
3.3
3.7
3.3
1.3
1.1
1.4
1.9
2.4
3.0
3.3
3.1
1.0
1.0
1.4
1.8
2.3
2.6
2.8
2.5
1.0
1.3
1.7
2.0
2.2
2.2
1.9
1.3
1.1
1.3
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.4
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.3
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.4
1.3
2.1
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.4
3.5
2.5
2.2
2.0
1.9
1.7
1.6
1.4
3.5
3.2
2.3
2.2
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.7
3.6
2.7
2.4
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.0
3.5
3.1
2.7
2.3
2.3
2.5
2.4
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.2
2.2
2.5
3.5
3.2
2.9
2.6
2.3
2.2
3.5
3.4
3.3
3.0
2.6
2.3
0.9
4.0
4.0
3.2
5.1
8.8
11.8
14.2
14.5
13.9
12.5
9.5
6.8
4.7
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
3.5
4.0
3.7
3.6
3.3
3.8
4.0
4.8
5.1
5.7
6.4
6.4
6.1
5.2
4.0
3.0
3.1
3.3
3.3
3.1
3.1
3.5
3.6
3.7
2.9
2.7
3.3
5.3
8.6
12.0
13.9
13.6
12.2
10.4
9.4
10.1
10.8
10.5
9.3
6.9
5.4
2.6
14.7
2.0
3.4
4.8
5.9
6.5
6.6
6.3
5.4
6.1
7.2
8.0
8.3
7.7
7.2
5.6
4.3
2.7
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.9
2.1
2.6
3.5
3.4
3.4
3.1
3.4
3.5
3.8
4.2
5.3
7.1
8.1
6.8
5.1
3.7
3.4
3.9
4.3
4.1
3.8
4.2
4.0
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.6
4.1
5.1
1.5
1.5
8.4
1.8
1.5
1.2
1.0
1.1
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.3
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.6
1.7
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.9
2.4
1.9
1.6
1.6
1.8
2.2
2.6
2.7
2.6
2.3
2.0
1.7
1.6
1.7
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.8
1.9
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.6
2.8
2.8
2.7
3.2
2.7
2.2
1.9
1.9
2.1
2.5
2.9
3.0
2.9
2.6
2.2
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.9
2.9
2.9
3.1
2.5
2.0
1.7
1.7
1.9
2.3
2.6
2.7
2.7
2.3
2.0
1.9
2.0
2.2
2.1
2.0
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.1
2.4
2.0
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.9
2.1
2.1
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.7
1.8
1.9
1.9
2.1
2.3
2.4
2.2
2.0
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.7
3.0
3.3
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.7
1.8
1.8
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.9
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.3
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.2
2.5
3.0
3.4
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.7
2.1
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.6
2.6
2.3
1.8
2.3
2.7
3.0
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.7
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.6
2.0
2.4
2.6
0.9
3.5
1.0
1.3
1.6
1.7
2.0
1.6
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.1
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.3
0.3
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.9
1.1
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.8
2.1
1.6
1.3
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.8
2.6
2.6
1.4
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.9
2.6
2.7
1.4
1.1
0.8
0.6
0.9
3.1
2.7
1.6
1.2
0.8
0.6
0.5
2.0
1.8
1.5
1.1
0.8
0.6
0.9
1.3
1.4
1.2
0.9
0.7
0.7
1.0
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.9
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.9
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
1.0
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.9
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
1.1
1.2
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.2
1.4
1.8
1.6
1.3
1.1
1.3
1.7
1.6
1.8
1.8
1.4
1.5
2.1
1.7
2.2
3.0
2.6
1.7
2.2
2.1
2.5
2.9
2.8
2.7
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
3.2
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12' A @ 12' A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
A @ 12'
P1 @ 14'
B @ 12'
B @ 12'
B @ 12'
P1 @ 14'
C @ 30'
D @ 30'
E @ 30'
F @ 30'
II @ 30'
HH @ 30'
CC @ 30'
Z @ 30'
AA @ 30'
BB @ 30'
Y @ 27'
O @ 30'
N @ 30'
M @ 30'
L @ 30'
J @ 30'
H @ 30'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
JJ @ 30'
NN @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
P1 @ 14'
X @ 27'
Statistics
Description
Symbol
Avg
Max
Min
Max/Min
Avg/Min
E. 4TH AVE - SIDEWALK
3.1 fc
6.1 fc
1.2 fc
5.1:1
2.6:1
E. 4TH AVE / S. B ST.
3.5 fc
5.4 fc
2.0 fc
2.7:1
1.8:1
E. 4TH AVE / S. ELLSWORTH AVE
3.8 fc
6.1 fc
2.1 fc
2.9:1
1.8:1
E. 5TH AVE - SIDEWALK
2.4 fc
4.6 fc
1.1 fc
4.2:1
2.2:1
E. 5TH AVE / S. B ST.
3.2 fc
4.7 fc
1.9 fc
2.5:1
1.7:1
S. ELLSWORTH AVE / E. 5TH AVE
1.8 fc
4.4 fc
0.2 fc
22.0:1
9.0:1
S. B ST. - SIDEWALK
6.6 fc
14.7 fc
2.6 fc
5.7:1
2.5:1
S. ELLSWORTH AVE - SIDEWALK
4.3 fc
8.4 fc
1.5 fc
5.6:1
2.9:1
S. B ST. - ROAD
2.7 fc
4.8 fc
1.2 fc
4.0:1
2.3:1
E. 4TH AVE - ROAD
2.3 fc
4.0 fc
0.9 fc
4.4:1
2.6:1
E. 5TH AVE - ROAD
1.0 fc
3.2 fc
0.2 fc
16.0:1
5.0:1
S. ELLSWORTH AVE - ROAD
2.0 fc
3.5 fc
0.9 fc
3.9:1
2.2:1
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
2/14/20
Pre-Application Set
EP-1
SITE LIGHTING
PHOTOMETRIC
CALKS
LIGHTING FIXTURE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
TYPE / LOCATION
MANUFACTURER / CATALOG NO.
TYPE
VOLTAGE
NOTES
LAMPS
WATTS
A
LED POLE LIGHT
120/277
LED
92W
LED DOWNLIGHT
ALPHABET:
NU6-QD-XTM19-13LM-30K-83-D70-120-
DIM10-RET-WH-WH
120/277
LED
14W
B
P1
4' LED STRIP
WILLIAMS:
75S-4-L50-835-DIM-UNV
DIMMABLE, WET LISTED
120/277
LED
33W
DIMMABLE, WET LISTED
DIMMABLE, WET LISTED
King Luminaire:
K118-B3AR-IV-100(SSL)
145 of 1252

--- page 146 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
2/14/20
Pre-Application Set
EP-2
LIGHT FIXTURE
CUT SHEETS
146 of 1252

--- page 147 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
2/14/20
Pre-Application Set
EP-3
LIGHT FIXTURE
CUT SHEETS
147 of 1252

--- page 148 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM 
NAME: 
222 E. 4th Ave. Office, Retail 
and Residential Planning 
Application 
PA: 
PA 2021-071 
ADDRESS:   
222 East 4th Avenue 
LOT SIZE:  
49,478 SF (1.13 acre) 
ZONING: CBD/R (Central 
Business District/Residential 
Mixed-Use Overlay) 
APN: 
034-176-050, -070, -080, -090
FLOOR AREA 
Office: 
   Retail: 
   Residential: 
   Common Area/Other1: 
TOTAL FLOOR AREA: 
Underground Parking: 
PROPOSED 
104,554 SF 
17,658 SF 
8,997 SF 
21,324 SF 
152,533 SF 
80,519 SF (Excluded) 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
148,434 SF 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R.): 
3.1 
3.0 
BUILDING HEIGHT: 
74’-3” 
 88’ (AB 1743) 
55’ – 75’ (General Plan) 
SETBACKS/BUILD-TO LINE: 
North Side (4th Ave): CBD 
South Side (5th Ave): R6-D 
East Side (B St.): CBD/R* 
West Side (Ellsworth): CBD/R* 
*/R overlay is not considered residential
PROPOSED 
6’-10” 
1’-0” 
6’-0” 
6’-0” 
REQUIRED BY ZONING CODE 
SB: 0’  
SB: 0’  
SB: 0’ 
SB: 0’ 
PARKING: 
Office/Retail: 
Retail: 
Residential: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
PROPOSED 
184 spaces 
37 spaces 
0 spaces 
221 spaces 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
171 spaces 
37 spaces 
0 spaces 
182 spaces 
LOADING SPACES: 
(1) 11’ x 25’-6” street
(1) 11 x 73’-3” street
(1) 11 x 28’-3” street
(3) 10’x25’ on-site spaces
BICYCLE PARKING 
Office: 
Retail: 
Residential: 
TOTAL BICYCLE PARKING: 
Short Term 
5 
9 
1 
15 
Long Term 
10 
1 
10 
21 
Short Term 
5.23 (1/20,000 sf) 
8.82 (1/2,000 sf) 
0.5 (0.05/unit) 
15 
Long Term 
10.47 (1/10,000 sf) 
1.47 (1/12,000 sf) 
10 (1.0/unit) 
21 
OPEN SPACE - PUBLIC 
PROPOSED 
2,070 SF 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
1,477 SF 
COMMON USABLE OPEN 
SPACE - RESIDENTIAL 
1,515 SF 
1,200 SF 
FOOTNOTES: 
1. Includes ground-floor parking, lobby, mechanical rooms, trash rooms, enclosed covered corridors,
storage areas.
148 of 1252

--- page 149 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Technical Memorandum 
 
 
 
This memorandum presents the findings of a parking study conducted for the 222 East 4th Avenue Project at 
the existing Draeger’s site in San Mateo, CA (Project). The Project is located within the Central Parking and 
Improvement District (CPID) and hence, requires a City-commissioned project-specific parking demand 
study.  
 
The purpose of this study is to determine the peak parking demand for the Project. In lieu of using the City’s 
Municipal Code requirements for parking, this study demonstrates the parking demand based on ITE 
Parking Generation Manual, 5th Edition data adjusted to localized conditions and Urban Land Institute (ULI) 
Shared Parking methodologies, accounting for the land-use mix and for the ability to share parking 
throughout the day. This memorandum provides a summary of these three different parking methodologies 
that support the parking study findings.  
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
The Project is proposing to replace the existing Draeger’s retail grocery store with 17,658 SF of retail space 
on the ground floor; 104,722 SF of office space on levels 2-4; and 10 residential units on level 5. The site plan 
also includes community open space and a loading zone on B Street. The project currently proposes 239 
parking spaces throughout the surface-level parking lot and two levels of below-grade parking garage. 
Figure 1 shows the proposed parking layout for the Project.  
 
Access and Pedestrian Circulation: The below-grade parking spaces can be accessed through two 
stairs and three elevators that connect all the floors. The stairs and elevators are placed centrally to 
minimize the vehicle-pedestrian conflict in the parking garage.  
 
Drive Aisles: The one-way drive aisles near the passenger parking stalls are 22-26 feet wide for the cars to 
maneuver in and out of the perpendicular parking stalls which exceed the City “Standard Drawings and 
Specifications” requirement of 22-24 feet wide parking aisle for one-way aisle along perpendicular 
parking1. The proposed parking layout conforms with the requirements mentioned in SMC 27.64.125(d).  
 
Parking Stalls Dimensions: The project meets the minimum parking stalls dimension of 8 feet by 17 feet for 
compact spaces and 8.5 feet by 18 feet for standard parking spaces.  
 
 
 
1 City of San Mateo Parking Standards: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/8009/PW_Parking_Standard-
Specifications?bidId=  
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505 
Oakland, CA 94612 
P 510.839.1742  
April 19, 2022     
Project# 24837.008
To: 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
Associate Planner – Community Development 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
From: 
Mychal Loomis and Dhawal Kataria 
RE: 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study 
149 of 1252

--- page 150 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 2 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Project Description 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
 
Figure 1 Parking Layout Plans 
150 of 1252

--- page 151 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 3 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Parking Requirements 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Vehicle Clearance: The proposed vertical clearance is 13 feet for Level B1 and 10 feet for Level B2, which 
again exceeds the SMC 27.64.120(f) requirement of seven (7) foot clearance.  
   
Affordable Housing Parking Reduction: Since the Project is located within a half-mile of a major transit 
stop, the state density bonus law exempts parking for 100% affordable projects. Therefore, the affordable 
housing portion of the project has zero drive-alone trips attributed to it for the purpose of this evaluation2.  
PARKING REQUIREMENTS 
 
Kittelson calculated the parking demand using the following three references: 
 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code Requirements 
 
ITE Parking Generation, 5th edition, released in January 2019 
 
Urban Land Institute, Shared Parking Model, 3rd Edition, released in March 2020 
STANDARD PARKING RATIO EVALUATIONS 
Table 1  Parking Requirement Calculation as per Municipal Code, ULI Shared Parking Manual and ITE 
Parking Generation Manual 
  
Land Use  
(ITE Land  
Use Code) 
  
Size 
  
Unit 
 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
ITE Parking Generation, 5th Edition 
ULI Shared Parking 
Manual 
Type 
Requirement 
Number 
of 
Required 
Spaces 
Requirement 
Number of 
Required Spaces 
Requirement 
Number 
of 
Required 
Spaces 
Retail 
Space 
(850) 
17.6 
KSF 
Employee 
0.5 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
9 
2.09 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
37 
0.7 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
13 
Visitor 
1.4 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
25 
2.9 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
52 
Office 
Space 
(710) 
104.7 
KSF 
Employee 
2.4 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
251 
1.63 Stalls per 
KSF GFA 
171 
3.15 Stalls 
per KSF GFA 
330 
Visitor 
0.2 Stalls per 
KSF FGA 
21 
0.25 Stalls 
per KSF GFA 
27 
Total 
 
 
 
 
306 
 
208 
 
422 
Note: KSF – 1,000 Square Feet; GFA – Gross Floor Area 
 
Table 1 shows the parking requirement for each land use using the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, ITE 
Parking Generation, 5th Edition and ULI Shared Parking Manual.  
 
Per the SMC 27.64.100(a)(1), the minimum parking required for the proposed development is calculated as 
306 parking spaces.  
 
The latest ITE Parking Generation manual, 5th edition, estimates parking demand based on the location of a 
project. The Project is assumed to be in the ‘Dense Multi-use Urban’ location, which has lower average 
parking rates requirements than a ‘General Urban/Suburban Location’. The expanded database includes 
new and reclassified land uses such as affordable housing units. The minimum number of parking spaces 
 
2 California Government Code § 65915 
151 of 1252

--- page 152 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 4 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Parking Requirements 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
required as per the ITE Parking Generation, 5th edition, is 208. The ITE parking generation rates are based on 
survey of similar land uses and does not provide different parking ratios for employees and visitors.   
 
ULI Shared Parking Model, 3rd edition, parking ratios are based on the ITE Trip Generation manual 5th but 
assume that the project is located in general urban/suburban location. The initial minimum number of 
parking spaces required under the model is 422.  However, the ULI database adds information on different 
user types (employees and visitors), time-of-day patterns, and day-of-week patterns. Because of this 
additional information, the ULI Shared Parking Model helps in estimating the parking requirements for 
mixed-use projects such as this project. The model considers that while each land use generates demand 
for a certain number of parking spaces, these parking demands fluctuate hour-by-hour and day-by-day 
and shared parking between land uses can minimize the amount of space and resources devoted to 
parking. Additionally, the ULI Shared Parking Model allows for nonvehicular mode (trips such as walking, 
biking, transit, and rideshare) and internal trip capture (trips between land uses internal to the site, between 
office and retail for instance) adjustments to be made for mixed-use developments to account for trips 
generated by the site that do not require parking.  
 
Comparing the three methods, it appears that the ITE Parking Generation is the most suitable method to 
estimate the number of required parking spaces for the project context. However, additional information 
from the ULI Shared Parking Manual should also be applied to evaluate how the mix of uses will interact 
throughout a typical day to determine shared parking demand.  
SHARED PARKING EVALUATION 
The ITE parking requirements calculated above assumes individual use and does not account for the 
reduction of parking due to shared parking, alternate modes, or internal capture. This section expands on 
the baseline parking rates to evaluate internal capture, parking by user type and time-of-day and resulting 
parking demand. 
Internal Trip Capture 
Kittelson utilized the NCHRP Report 684: Enhancing Internal Trip Capture Estimation for Mixed-Use 
Developments tool to estimate the number of internal trips that will be generated through mixed-use 
development. Typically, the tool is used to estimate peak hour internal capture percentages. Kittelson 
adjusted the tool to obtain weekday daily estimates. Appendix 1 shows the NCHRP Internal Trip Capture 
calculations for the project.  
 
These assumptions reduce overall parking demand due to trips that do not require a vehicle to leave the 
site and are applied to the base parking ratios to estimate the adjusted number of parking spaces 
required. Parking rates and adjustment percentages are summarized in Table 2. 
 
Table 2 Parking Requirement Calculation as per ULI Shared Parking Model 
Land Use  
Size 
Unit 
Weekday Peak 
Ratio 
Requirement 
(Visitor + 
Employees) 
Number of 
Required 
Spaces 
 Internal 
Trip 
Capture 
Adjusted 
Number 
of 
Required 
Spaces 
Retail Space  
17.6 
KSF 
2.09 Stalls per KSF 
GFA 
37 
13% 
33 
Office Space  
104.7 
KSF 
1.63 Stalls per KSF 
GFA 
171 
149 
Total 
 
 
 
208 
 
182 
152 of 1252

--- page 153 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 5 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Parking Requirements 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Note: KSF – 1,000 Square Feet; GFA – Gross Floor Area 
Mode Adjustment 
Given the location, the Project is estimated to have higher trips by walking, bicycling and transit than rest of 
the City. The San Mateo Downtown Caltrain Station is located 0.3 miles from the Project and will be a major 
alternative to driving for the visitors and employees. SamTrans also operates two bus routes – 59 and 295 on 
the East 4th Avenue providing connections to 
Redwood City, Belmont, Hillsborough, and 
Foster City. Route 59 is a School Days Only 
Route which operates only on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays primarily providing connection to 
Aragon High School. Route 295 runs along El 
Camino Real and Alameda connecting 
major Caltrain Transit Stations along the 
route. Effective January 16, 2022, the bus 
operates from 6 am to 6 pm at a frequency 
of one bus every two hours3. The Project also 
provides a loading zone on B Street that 
could be utilized for drop-off and pick-up as 
shown in Figure 2.  
 
Due to the lack of reliable data, the impact on required number of parking spaces due to mode 
adjustment cannot be estimated without surveying additional nearby locations. However, it is relevant to 
acknowledge these connections that help reduce parking demand and confirm a dense multi-use urban 
environment is appropriate assumption for the project.  
Time-of-Day Needs 
 
Different land-uses have varying parking demand across the day, the ULI Shared Parking Model provides 
the time-of-day rates for each land uses to estimate the staggered peak or to identify the peak parking 
period. Ratio of employee and visitor demands were applied to the ITE rates to estimate the parking user 
type. Table 3 shows the time-of-day factors for the weekday. It is observed that retail and office use will not 
have 100 percent occupancy for the same hour.  
 
Table 3 Time-of-Day Factors for Weekday Demand 
 
Land Use 
Type 
3 PM 
4 PM 
5 PM 
6 PM 
7 PM 
8 PM 
9 PM 
10 PM 
11 PM 
12 AM 
Retail Space 
Employee 
100% 
100% 
80% 
50% 
35% 
20% 
15% 
15% 
10% 
0% 
Visitor 
100% 
100% 
100% 
85% 
55% 
35% 
30% 
30% 
10% 
0% 
Office 
Employee 
40% 
20% 
10% 
5% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
 
3 Source: SamTrans, 2022: https://www.samtrans.com/schedulesandmaps/maps.html  
Land Use 
Type 
6 AM 
7 AM 
8 AM 
9 AM 
10 AM 
11 AM 
12 PM 
1 PM 
2 PM 
Retail Space 
Employee 
20% 
30% 
40% 
80% 
90% 
100% 
100% 
100% 
100% 
Visitor 
5% 
20% 
30% 
50% 
60% 
67% 
85% 
90% 
95% 
Office 
Employee 
0% 
20% 
60% 
80% 
90% 
100% 
90% 
80% 
60% 
Visitor 
0% 
20% 
60% 
80% 
90% 
100% 
90% 
80% 
60% 
Figure 3 Loading Zone rendering at B-Street 
153 of 1252

--- page 154 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 6 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Parking Requirements 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Visitor 
40% 
20% 
10% 
5% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
Source: ULI Shared Parking Manual, 3rd edition 
Reviewing the employee percent assumptions for retail space throughout the day, an adjustment was 
made to better reflect anticipated employee demand for a grocery store that is operating from 7:00 AM to 
9:00 PM. When calculating demand, the retail employee percent was changed to 100% between 6:00 AM 
and 10:00 PM.  
 
Table 4 provides the resulting weekday parking demands by hour and Figure 3 illustrates it in graph format.  
The peak hour parking demand for the Project occurs at 11 AM with a peak demand of 173. The projected 
parking demand does not exceed the parking supply of 239 spaces throughout the day.  The peak number 
of parking spaces by user is summarized below. 
 
 
Retail employees: 6 spaces (all day) 
 
Retail visitors: 27 spaces (3:00 – 6:00 PM) 
 
Office employees: 138 spaces (11:00 AM) 
 
Office visitors: 11 spaces (11:00 AM) 
 
Table 4 Time-of-Day Weekday Demand 
 
Land Use 
Type 
6 AM 
7 AM 
8 AM 
9 AM 
10 AM 
11 AM 
12 PM 
1 PM 
2 PM 
Retail Space 
Employee 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
Visitor 
1 
5 
8 
14 
16 
18 
23 
24 
26 
Office 
Employee 
0 
28 
83 
110 
124 
138 
124 
110 
83 
Visitor 
0 
2 
7 
9 
10 
11 
10 
9 
7 
Land Use 
Type 
3 PM 
4 PM 
5 PM 
6 PM 
7 PM 
8 PM 
9 PM 
10 PM 
11 PM 
12 AM 
Retail Space 
Employee 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
1 
0 
Visitor 
27 
27 
27 
23 
15 
9 
8 
8 
3 
0 
Office 
Employee 
55 
28 
14 
7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Visitor 
4 
2 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
154 of 1252

--- page 155 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 7 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Bicycle Parking 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Figure 4 Weekday Parking Demand by Hour 
 
BICYCLE PARKING  
 
SMC 27.64.262 requires all new development to provide short-term and long-term bicycle parking facilities. 
This would require the project to provide 15 short-term and 21 long-term bicycle spaces. The bicycle 
storage space is located near the entrance on S. Ellsworth Avenue and provides more than the required 
number. Table 4 provides a summary of required and proposed bicycle parking for both short and long-
term. 
Table 5 Proposed and Required Bicycle Parking 
Land Use  
Size 
Unit 
Short-Term 
Bicycle 
Parking 
Requirement 
Long-Term 
Bicycle 
Parking 
Requirement 
Required 
Number 
of Short-
Term 
Spaces 
Required 
Number 
of Long-
Term 
Spaces 
Proposed 
Number 
of Short-
Term 
Spaces 
Proposed 
Number 
of Long-
Term 
Spaces 
Retail Space 
17.6 
KSF 
1 per 2 KSF 
1 per 12 KSF 
9 
1 
12 
1 
Office Space 
104.7 
KSF 
1 per 20 KSF 
1 per 10 KSF 
5 
10 
5 
10 
Affordable Housing 
10 
DU 
0.05 per unit 
1 per unit 
1 
10 
0 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
21 
17 
21 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
6 AM
7 AM
8 AM
9 AM
10 AM
11 AM
12 PM
1 PM
2 PM
3 PM
4 PM
5 PM
6 PM
7 PM
8 PM
9 PM
10 PM
11 PM
12 AM
Number of Parking Spaces
Retail Employee
Retail Visitor
Office Employee
Office Visitor
Proposed Parking Supply
155 of 1252

--- page 156 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 8 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Conclusion and Recommendations 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
Based on the ITE Parking Generation ratios for a dense multi-use urban location, the Project is expected to 
generate a parking demand of 208 parking spaces. The demand would be less than the proposed supply 
by 31 parking spaces.  
 
Applying internal capture and ULI Shared Parking Model information on time of day, the Project is 
expected to generate a peak parking demand of 173 parking spaces during weekdays around 11 AM. The 
peak number of parking spaces required by user is summarized below. 
 
 
Retail employees: 6 spaces (all day) 
 
Retail visitors: 27 spaces (3:00 – 6:00 PM) 
 
Office employees: 138 spaces (11:00 AM) 
 
Office visitors: 11 spaces (11:00 AM) 
 
Kittelson concludes that the parking provided by the applicant is sufficient and would meet the parking 
demand needs for the proposed project. The projected demand will not exceed the proposed parking 
supply throughout the day.  The project also provides more than the required number of short-term and 
long-term bicycle parking.  
 
 
 
156 of 1252

--- page 157 ---
April 19, 2022 
Page 9 
222 East 4th Ave Project – Parking Study   
Appendix 1 NCHRP Internal Trip Capture Estimation 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
APPENDIX 1 NCHRP INTERNAL TRIP CAPTURE ESTIMATION 
 
157 of 1252

--- page 158 ---
Project Name:
Organization:
Project Location:
Performed By:
Scenario Description:
Date:
20-Mar-22
Analysis Year:
Checked By:
Analysis Period:
Date:
ITE LUCs1
Quantity
Units
Total
Entering
Exiting
Office
710
105
                 
KSF
1134
567
567
Retail
850
18
                   
KSF
1652
826
826
Restaurant
0
Cinema/Entertainment
0
Residential
223
10
                   
DU
4
2
2
Hotel
0
All Other Land Uses2
0
Total
2790
1395
1395
Veh. Occ.
% Transit
% Non-Motorized
Veh. Occ.
% Transit
% Non-Motorized
Office
1.30
12%
3%
1.30
12%
3%
Retail
1.30
12%
3%
1.30
12%
3%
Restaurant
Cinema/Entertainment
Residential
1.00
12%
3%
1.00
12%
3%
Hotel
All Other Land Uses2
Office
Retail
Restaurant
Residential
Hotel
Office
Retail
Restaurant
Cinema/Entertainment
Residential
Hotel
Office
Retail
Restaurant
Residential
Hotel
Office
206
0
0
0
Retail
29
0
0
0
Restaurant
0
0
0
0
Cinema/Entertainment
0
0
0
0
0
Residential
0
0
0
0
Hotel
0
0
0
0
Total
Entering
Exiting
Land Use
Entering Trips
Exiting Trips
All Person-Trips
3,626
1,813
1,813
Office
4%
28%
Internal Capture Percentage
13%
13%
13%
Retail
19%
3%
Restaurant
N/A
N/A
External Vehicle-Trips3
2,066
1,033
1,033
Cinema/Entertainment
N/A
N/A
External Transit-Trips4
378
189
189
Residential
0%
0%
External Non-Motorized Trips4
94
47
47
Hotel
N/A
N/A
NCHRP 8-51 Internal Trip Capture Estimation Tool
Table 1-A: Base Vehicle-Trip Generation Estimates (Single-Use Site Estimate)
0
0
Cinema/Entertainment
Development Data (For Information Only )
0
0
0
Estimated Vehicle-Trips
Land Use
222 East 4th Avenue Project
Table 2-A: Mode Split and Vehicle Occupancy Estimates
Table 4-A: Internal Person-Trip Origin-Destination Matrix*
Destination (To)
Origin (From)
Origin (From)
Destination (To)
Cinema/Entertainment
Land Use
Entering Trips
Exiting Trips
Table 3-A: Average Land Use Interchange Distances (Feet Walking Distance)
Estimation Tool Developed by the Texas Transportation Institute
Table 5-A: Computations Summary
Table 6-A: Internal Trip Capture Percentages by Land Use
2Total estimate for all other land uses at mixed-use development site-not subject to internal trip capture computations in this estimator
3Vehicle-trips computed using the mode split and vehicle occupancy values provided in Table 2-A
1Land Use Codes (LUCs) from Trip Generation Informational Report , published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
4Person-Trips
*Indicates computation that has been rounded to the nearest whole number.
San Mateo, CA
Weekday
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Dhawal Kataria
2022
158 of 1252

--- page 159 ---
-1- 
June 15, 2022 
Via Email 
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner 
Planning Division, Community Development Department  
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: 
222 E. 4th Avenue, San Mateo – Density Bonus Law Project 
Dear Ms. Lao, 
This correspondence revises and supplements applicant Lane Partners’ March 24, 2021, 
July 10, 2021, February 8, and April 28, 2022 correspondence to you regarding the application 
of the state Density Bonus Law to the project. This correspondence is in response to comments 
and questions from City Staff set forth in its , 2022 incompleteness letter.  Except as revised 
herein, the content of the April 28 letter is unchanged. 
Your cover letter states that “there may be additional information requested by the 
Development Review Board, Planning Commission, or City Council during the review process.”  
Please note that open-ended information requests cannot serve as a basis to determine that a 
development application is incomplete.  (Gov. Code, § 65943.)  Following the submission by 
applicant, the City must determine the application to be complete. 
A. 
Density Bonus 
The project’s ten rental residential units will be available to lower income households 
(80% AMI), thus Lane Partners submits that the project automatically qualifies for a density 
bonus of up to 80% above the maximum allowable residential density of an FAR of 3.0.1  
However, we recognize that the City requires a waiver to exceed the 3.0 FAR, so the project’s 
increase to a 3.1 FAR is addressed in the development waiver section (D) below. 
B. 
AB 1763 Automatic Height Increase 
Because the project will provide 100% of the residential units to lower income households 
and is located within a half-mile of a major transit stop, AB 1763 mandates that the project 
receive a building height increase of up to three additional stories or 33 feet.1  This point was 
confirmed by Staff in its September 14, 2021 Agenda Report.  At this point, the project seeks 
only a height increase from four to five stories, which is necessary to accommodate the project’s 
affordable units. 
 
1 
Gov. Code § 65915(d)(2)(D). 
159 of 1252

--- page 160 ---
-2- 
C. 
Requested Incentives 
Per the amendments to the DBL enacted by AB 1763, the project is entitled up to four 
incentives.
2 Under the DBL, the definition of an “incentive” includes, but is not limited to, a 
reduction in site development standards or a modification of zoning code requirements, or other 
regulatory incentives proposed by the developer, that result in identifiable and actual cost 
reductions to provide for affordable housing costs.3 
A local agency must grant the incentive request unless it can make a written finding, 
based on substantial evidence, that: (1) the incentive does not result in identifiable and actual 
cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs; (2) the incentive would have a specific, 
adverse impact on the public health, safety, or physical environment or upon an historical 
resource; or (3) would be contrary to state or federal law.4 We submit that none of those findings 
can be made in this case. 
As we have discussed with Staff, recent case law confirms that an applicant is not 
required to establish that the requested incentive will result in cost reductions. In Schreiber v. 
City of Los Angeles (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 549, 555, the court explained that there is a 
presumption that an incentive will result in cost reductions and that an applicant “is not required 
to establish that cost reductions will result.”  Instead, a city must approve the request unless it 
makes one of the written findings set forth in Section 65915(d)(1). (Ibid.)  “By requiring the city 
to grant incentives unless it makes particular findings, the statute places the burden of proof on 
the city to overcome the presumption that incentives will result in cost reductions.”  (Id. at 556.)  
As such, a city is “not required to make an affirmative finding that the incentives would result in 
cost reductions, or to cite evidence to establish a fact presumed to be true.”  (Id. at 560.)  That 
said, Lane Partners provides additional information in response to the City’s requests, with the 
expectation that the City will refrain from seeking information beyond what is legally required. 
Therefore, Staff’s claims in Item 6 that applicant must provide further information to 
demonstrate an ”identifiable and actual cost reduction” are not warranted.  Applicant has 
provided more than what is required under the Schreiber case, and there is no basis upon which 
the City can claim that additional information is necessary in order to determine application 
completeness.  If you have not yet reviewed the Schreiber case, please do so and consider 
modifying your policies accordingly. 
In light of the City Council’s recent direction to eliminate the concept of a bike lane along 
B Street, and as requested in Item 6.f of your letter, we are eliminating the second incentive 
request identified in our April 28 letter, and seek only the incentive immediately below. 
 
2 
Ibid. The project’s eligibility for four incentives is recognized in the September 14, 2021 Agenda Report. 
In our October 27 correspondence, we requested an incentive regarding the City’s onsite parking 
requirements. Per the amendments to Government Code section 65915(p)(3) effective January 1, 
2021, we request that the City not impose any vehicular parking standards upon the project. As such, 
an incentive is no longer necessary for relief from a city’s parking standards. 
3 
Gov. Code § 65915(k). 
4 
Gov. Code § 65915(d)(1). 
160 of 1252

--- page 161 ---
-3- 
The incentive seeks partial relief from the retail frontage requirements set forth in Zoning 
Code section 27.38.110. As depicted in the Downtown Area Plan’s “Required Retail Frontage 
Zones” map (Fig. 11), the project site is required to establish retail or similar uses along its South 
Ellsworth Avenue, East 4th Avenue, and South B Street frontages. Our incentive request is to 
except the retail requirement along the S. Ellsworth Avenue and S. B Street frontages of the 
project site.  Due to the location of the project’s parking garage, office and residential lobbies, 
bike storage, and trash rooms, the minimum 75% retail frontage requirement along these two 
frontages cannot be met. This requested modification of the City’s Zoning Code requirements 
would result in actual project cost reductions that would help offset the costs of providing the 
affordable housing units. It is widely recognized that the economic effects of the Covid-19 
pandemic include the devastation of the urban retail sector. Requiring the project to comply with 
Section 27.38.110 would make the project economically infeasible to construct and operate.  
Reducing the retail requirement from three frontages to one would yield cost savings to help 
offset the costs of providing the affordable units.  The costs associated with the build out of shell 
retail space would greatly exceed the cost of providing grade level parking stalls for the project.  
Although not related to the cost saving issue, it is worth considering that removal of some or all 
of the grade level parking will impair customer access to Draeger’s. We will maintain pedestrian-
friendly ground floor frontages along S. Ellsworth Avenue and B Street. (The project design 
contemplates typical retail and a transparent office lobby along S. Ellsworth and typical retail and 
the affordable residential lobby along B Street.) Please note that the project will provide retail 
frontages of 47% along South B Street and 47% along South Ellsworth Avenue.  
While we believe that the request above is better suited as an incentive rather than a 
development standard waiver, Lane Partners reserves the right to change the incentive request 
into a waiver request in response to further comments from the City.  Zoning Code section 
27.38.110 regarding retail frontage constitutes a development standard to which Section 
65915(e) of the DBL may be applied.  Development standard waivers are discussed in the 
section immediately below.  
D. 
Requested Development Standard Waivers 
Regarding development standard waivers, they are unlimited, and AB 1763’s partial 
limitation on waivers is restricted to situations involving the use of waivers from maximum density 
controls, which is not applicable here. 
As with incentives, recent case law has clarified the legal principles regarding waivers. 
The Schreiber case confirms that a city may refuse a request to waive or reduce development 
standards only if it makes written findings that the waiver or reduction would have a specific 
adverse impact on the public health or safety.  (Id. at 556; Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).)  In addition, 
another new case upholding a city’s approval of a density bonus project confirmed that waivers 
are based on the project as proposed by the developer: “even if we assume the Project as 
designed is inconsistent with some of the City’s design standards, the Density Bonus Law would 
preclude the City from applying those standards to deny this project.”  (Bankers Hill 150 v. City 
of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.) Therefore, a local agency may not respond to a 
161 of 1252

--- page 162 ---
-4- 
waiver request that a project could be redesigned to avoid the need for a waiver. (Id. at 774-775 
[rejecting argument that the project “could have been built more horizontally” to comply with 
design standards.”].) 
Also, please note that Staff’s request that the applicant articulate a connection between 
the waiver and the project’s proposed density is not a DBL requirement.  The DBL provision 
regarding waivers provides: “an applicant may submit to a city, county, or city and county a 
proposal for the waiver or reduction of development standards that will have the effect of 
physically precluding the construction of a development meeting the criteria of subdivision (b) at 
the densities or with the concessions or incentives permitted under this section,”  (Gov. Code, 
§ 65915(e)(1).)  Thus, what some cities refer to as the “bonus project” may seek waivers or 
reductions of local development standards that are in conflict with that project.  In this case, the 
project’s dimensions are clear, and the City’s development standards that would otherwise 
preclude the development of the project as proposed are set forth below.  There is no 
requirement in the statute or the case law that an applicant provide the granularity requested in 
your letter.  As with incentives, and in the spirit of cooperation with the City, Lane Partners has 
provided the City with information in response to Staff’s request for a greater showing of 
connectivity.   
Despite applicant’s provision of additional information, Item 6.c of your letter claims that 
further information is necessary to qualify for the requested waivers.  Please note that, for the 
reasons set forth above, there is no justification to demand further information. As explained in 
Bankers Hill, “a city must offer a waiver or reduction of development standards that would have 
the effect of physically precluding the construction of a development at the density, or with the 
requested incentives, permitted by the Density Bonus Law.”  (74 Cal.App.5th at 770.)  We have 
made a prima facie showing of same.  In addition, “unless one of the statutory exceptions 
applies, so long as a proposed housing development project meets the criteria of the Density 
Bonus Law by including the necessary affordable units, a city may not apply any development 
standard that would physically preclude construction of that project as designed, even if the 
building includes ‘amenities’ beyond the bare minimum of building components.”  (Id. at 775.)  
Again, the project meets the threshold affordability requirement under the DBL, thus the City 
cannot apply any development standards that would preclude construction of the project.  In 
other words, even if Lane Partners did not affirmatively request any waivers, 5 the City is 
prohibited from imposing any development standards that would physically preclude 
construction of the project (unless the City makes a finding that the waiver would have a specific, 
adverse impact on the public health or safety).  (Gov. Code, § 65915(e)(1).)   
The project’s development standard waivers that are identified at this point of the 
entitlement process are as follows: 
• 
City Code section 27.38.080 limits structures in the CBD zoning district to the 
maximum bulk limits in Chapter 27.40. In order to accommodate the new 
 
5 
If an applicant requests a waiver, however, and it the local agency wrongfully denies it, the court 
will award attorney’s fees to the applicant.  (Ibid.) 
162 of 1252

--- page 163 ---
-5- 
residential units, the project will exceed the bulk standards set forth in Section 
27.40.030, which, if applied, would physically preclude development of the 
project.  Please see Exhibit A, attached hereto, which depicts the project’s 
exceedance of the codified maximum bulk limits. 
• 
City Code section 27.38.100(a) requires new developments to be built to the 
property line to a minimum height of 26 feet, up to the maximum height as 
permitted in the street wall area or to the maximum height permitted for parcels 
outside the street wall area, except where a setback is required to meet ground 
floor open space requirements or where a setback buffer is required adjacent 
to a residential district pursuant to the Building Height and Bulk Plan in the 
Downtown Plan.  Should Staff determine that this development standard 
applies to the project’s street wall areas, the project cannot meet this standard 
because the building must be set back from the property line in order to provide 
the sidewalk widths required by the City's Pedestrian Master Plan. Therefore, 
application of this standard would therefore physically preclude development of 
the project. Please see Exhibit B, attached hereto. 
• 
City Code section 27.38.100(b) requires at least 75% of a project’s building line 
to be built to the property line. The project will not meet this requirement along 
its Ellsworth frontage (70% of the building line is built to the property line) as 
the project is designed to provide a large public plaza in this area which is 
designed to engage the community and activate the pedestrian realm. Without 
the requested waiver, this development standard would physically preclude 
development of the project.  Please see Exhibit C, attached hereto.  When 
considering this waiver request please note the following from the Bankers Hill 
case (at p. 775): “nothing in the Density Bonus Law ‘requires the applicant to 
strip the project of amenities, such as an interior courtyard, that would require 
a waiver of development standards. Standards may be waived that physically 
preclude construction of a housing development meeting the requirements for 
a density bonus, period.’” 
• 
Sidewalk width requirements on B Street and 5th Avenue are required to meet 
sidewalk type A10 in Appendix A of the Pedestrian Master Plan. The project 
cannot meet this requirement along the B Street frontage due to the proposed 
loading zone configuration on B Street, nor can it meet the 8-foot Through Zone 
requirement along the 5th Avenue frontage. Please see Sheet L-200 of our plan 
set that illustrates where the project’s required streetscape improvements 
would otherwise conflicts with the A10 standards.  As shown in these plans, 
compliance with either of these development standards would physically 
preclude construction of the project because the project could not comply with 
the applicable setback requirements that would reach further into the parcel 
due to these frontage requirements. 
• 
City Code section 27.71.120 requires street trees to be planted along public 
street at a spacing not to exceed 30 feet except to allow for utilities, street 
163 of 1252

--- page 164 ---
-6- 
furnishings and driveways. The project can only partially meet this requirement 
along the B Street frontage due to the loading zone configuration on B Street.  
Please see Sheet L-100 of our plan set.  Full compliance with this development 
standard would physically preclude construction of the project, thus a reduction 
of this standard is necessary.   
• 
As noted in Section A above, Lane Partners submits the project’s FAR increase 
from 3.0 to 3.1 as a waiver request, per your direction.6 It is self-explanatory 
that without this FAR increase, the project could not be constructed as 
proposed, thereby meeting the criterion for a waiver request.  This FAR 
increase is necessary to accommodate the project’s residential units. 
Lane Partners reserves its rights to seek additional waivers or reductions from otherwise 
applicable development standards that would preclude development of the project that may arise 
as a result of the entitlement process. 
We look forward to working with Staff on our proposed project and should you have any 
questions or please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Regards, 
 
Marcus Gilmour
 
6 
The September 14, 2021 Agenda Report also recognizes that the “larger floor area ratio may be 
permitted as a density bonus waiver as requested by the applicant.” 
164 of 1252

--- page 165 ---
LANE | PARTNERS

EXHIBIT A

165 of 1252


--- page 166 ---
LANE | PARTNERS

EXHIBIT B

36' MAX
7
7

7
EXTENT OF BUILDING 7
REQUIRED BY SMCC 27.38.100 F
¢
7 26' MIN
LIMIT OF BUILDING DUE TO y,
PEDESTRIAN MASTER PLAN y,

REQUIREMENTS

5"
CURB

Ahoy" Ba"

Ral

ELLSWORTH

ini THROUGH

S| |e (nee! GO (ee |

|

4g" qi"

a

166 of 1252


--- page 167 ---
LANE | PARTNERS

EXHIBIT C

22%

SETBACK

YoSe

MOWELAS

oe

167 of 1252


--- page 168 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Three Embarcadero Center, 12th Floor | San Francisco, CA 94111-4074 
Telephone: 415.837.1515 | Facsimile: 415.837.1516 
www.allenmatkins.com 
David H. Blackwell 
E-mail: dblackwell@allenmatkins.com 
Direct Dial: 415.273.7463   File Number: 390677.00001/4894-1159-6076.2 
 
 
 
 
Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Century City | San Francisco 
Allen Matkins 
 
Via Electronic Mail 
August 1, 2022 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
Associate Planner 
Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
Re: 
222 E. 4th Avenue, San Mateo - Density Bonus Law Project 
Dear Ms. Lao: 
This correspondence incorporates and supplements applicant Lane Partners’ June 15, 2022 
correspondence regarding the application of the state Density Bonus Law (Gov. Code § 65915) to 
the above-referenced project.  During my telephone conversation last week with you and Assistant 
City Attorney Mazarin Vakharia, I agreed to provide additional information that you requested 
regarding the project’s requested incentive and development standard waivers.  For brevity, this 
letter incorporates by reference the contents of the June 15 correspondence on this topic, yet restates 
certain contents of that letter herein to emphasize certain points. 
One of those points already raised in the June 15 letter and reiterated during our conference 
call, but worthy of repeating here, is that it is important to recognize that although Lane Partners is 
providing this additional information in the spirit of cooperation and to move this project forward, 
recent case law makes it quite clear that this information is not necessary for the City to approve the 
incentive and waiver requests.  Schreiber v. City of Los Angeles (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 549, 555, 
emphasizes that there is a statutory presumption that an incentive will result in actual cost 
reductions and that an applicant is not required to establish that cost reductions will result.  
Similarly, a waiver request must be granted if the development standard would otherwise physically 
preclude development of the project as proposed.  As the state Department of Housing and 
Community Development recently advised another local agency, “the courts have made it very clear 
that if a project qualifies under [the Density Bonus Law], and if waivers are needed to physically 
allow that project to go forward with the incentives and concessions granted, the waivers must be 
granted.”  (1/20/22 Notice of Violation to City of Encinitas.) 
168 of 1252

--- page 169 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
August 1, 2022 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
The second point worth restating is that although we expect that this correspondence will 
provide the information sought by Staff regarding the project’s incentive and waiver requests, 
should Staff believe that more information is required, this determination should not serve as a basis 
upon which to determine the project’s development application to be incomplete.  Amendments to 
the Density Bonus Law in 2018 to reduce delays in the process of density bonus applications make 
clear that after an application is deemed complete, the local agency must notify the applicant 
whether the applicant has provided adequate information to the local agency in order to make a 
determination regarding the requested incentives or waivers.  (Gov. Code § 65915(a)(3)(D)(III).)   
With these legal principles in mind, Lane Partners provides the following with regard to the 
project’s incentive and waiver requests. 
I. 
INCENTIVE 
 
A. 
Retail Frontage Requirement 
This incentive seeks partial relief from the retail frontage requirements set forth in Zoning 
Code section 27.38.110.  As depicted in the Downtown Area Plan’s “Required Retail Frontage 
Zones” map (Fig. 11), the project site is required to establish retail or similar uses along its South 
Ellsworth Avenue, East 4th Avenue, and South B Street frontages. Our incentive request is to 
except the retail requirement along the S. Ellsworth Avenue and S. B Street frontages of the project 
site.  Due to the location of the project’s parking garage, office and residential lobbies, bike storage, 
and trash rooms, the minimum 75% retail frontage requirement along these two frontages cannot be 
met.1  
This requested modification of the City’s Zoning Code requirements would result in actual 
project cost reductions that would help offset the costs of providing the affordable housing units.  
The projected costs of providing the project’s affordable housing units is approximately $650,000 
per unit.  Reducing the retail requirement along S. Ellsworth and B Street would yield 
approximately $3.5 million in cost savings, which will contribute to the viability of providing the 
affordable housing units. 
Moreover, the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic include the devastation of the 
urban retail sector.  Requiring the project to comply with Section 27.38.110 would make the project 
economically infeasible to construct and operate, thus an exception from this requirement reduces 
the losses that would be incurred if full compliance with this Code section was required.  This loss 
reduction inherently helps the economics of the project and thereby results in “identifiable and 
actual cost reductions” to help address the affordable housing costs. 
 
1 
For this reason, relief from this requirement would also independently qualify as a waiver or 
reduction of a development standard. 
169 of 1252

--- page 170 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
August 1, 2022 
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD WAIVERS OR REDUCTIONS 
 
A. 
Maximum Bulk Limit 
As depicted in Exhibit A to the June 15, 2022 correspondence, the project will exceed the 
maximum bulk standards in Zoning Code section 27.40.030.  Above the 55-foot high threshold set 
forth by this Code section, the project will exceed the maximum lineal dimension by 47.5 feet and 
the maximum diagonal dimension by approximately 90.5 feet.  Therefore, requiring compliance 
with this development standard would physically preclude construction of the project and eliminate 
the top two floors as proposed. 
 
B. 
Street Wall 
As depicted in Exhibit B to the June 15, 2022 correspondence, the project cannot meet the 
requirements of Zoning Code section 27.38.100(a), which requires new developments to be built to 
the property line to a minimum height of 26 feet.  The building must be set further back from the 
property line in order to comply with the City’s required sidewalk widths.  The difference between 
the Code’s street wall requirement and the proposed project equates to approximately 4.5 feet along 
the 4th Avenue, Ellsworth Avenue, and B Street frontages.  Therefore, compliance with this Zoning 
Code requirement would physically preclude construction of the project as proposed. 
 
C. 
Setbacks 
As depicted in Exhibit C to the June 15, 2022 correspondence, the project cannot meet the 
requirements of Zoning Code section 27.38.100(b), which requires at least 75% of the building line 
to be built to the property line.  Along the project’s Ellsworth frontage, 70% of the building line will 
be built to the property line because the project will provide a large public plaza in this area to 
engage the community and activity the pedestrian realm.  Therefore, compliance with this Zoning 
Code requirement would physically preclude construction of the project as proposed. 
 
D. 
Sidewalk Widths 
The City’s Pedestrian Master Plan imposes sidewalk width requirements on B Street and 
Ellsworth Avenue.  In particular, the sidewalk minimum widths for type A10 are 16 feet.  The 
project cannot meet this requirement along the Ellsworth frontage due to the City’s requirement that 
the parking on the opposite side of the street comply with current standards; instead of providing the 
required 16-foot width, the project can only provide a 15.5-foot width.  Along the B Street frontage, 
the project’s loading zone ramps impede compliance with the Pedestrian Master Plan’s 
requirements; although a total of approximately 16 feet in width will be provided, the required 
Planting Zone and Through Zone dimensions will not be met.  The project’s conflicts are visually 
depicted in Sheet L-200 of the project’s plan set.  Therefore, if the project were required to comply 
170 of 1252

--- page 171 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
August 1, 2022 
Page 4 
with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan’s width requirements, the project could not be constructed as 
proposed. 
E.
Floor Area Ratio
The project’s maximum FAR is 3.0 per Zoning Code section 27.38.060(a).  Per Staff’s 
request, Lane Partners requests a waiver of this development standard so that the project can be 
constructed with an FAR of 3.1.  It is self-evident that the project could not be constructed as 
proposed if its FAR was reduced to 3.0.   
F.
Off-Street Loading Zone
Zoning Code Article 2 requires off-street loading facilities of at least 10 feet in width and at 
least 25 feet in length, with a vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.  (Zoning Code, § 27.64.230.)  We 
do not believe that this standard has been imposed on any other recent projects in the City, and it is 
clear that imposing this requirement on this project would physically preclude construction of the 
project as proposed.  Installing an on-site loading zone with the dimensions necessary to 
accommodate the large trucks needed for a full service grocery operation would result in the loss of 
multiple parking stalls, mechanical, electrical and plumbing infrastructure areas, and the loss of the 
parking garage ramp, which would require a redesign of the project that eliminates critical ground 
floor office and retail space.  
As set forth above, we sincerely hope that this is the final submission required by the City 
with regard to the project’s requested incentive and waivers under the Density Bonus Law.  The 
submissions from Lane Partners exceed what is required under the statute, and addresses Staff’s 
requests for additional information. 
We look forward to moving this great project forward through the entitlement process, 
wherein the parties can continue their discussions and collaboration regarding the project’s scope, 
benefits, and relation to the community. 
Very truly yours, 
David H. Blackwell 
cc: 
Marcus Gilmour 
171 of 1252

--- page 172 ---
644 Menlo Avenue 2nd Floor, Menlo Park, CA 94025 | t 650 838 0100 f 650 838 0900 | LANE-PARTNERS.COM 
 
B Street South 
222 E. 4th Ave., San Mateo 
Affordable Housing Plan 
11.11.22 
 
1) Project Description 
B Street South is a mixed-use project comprised of +/- 18,000 SF of ground floor retail, +/- 
105,000 SF of office, and 10 workforce housing units at the 80% AMI level.  The project will 
provide 2 levels of below grade basement parking.  B Street South is 5 stories tall and spans 
across a full city block in Downton San Mateo within a 5-minute walk to the Caltrain Station.   
 
2) City of San Mateo Commercial Linkage Fee and Alternatives to Payment of Affordable Housing 
Commercial Fee  
The commercial linkage fee obligation is approximately $2,848,305 or 8 low-income units 
(rounded up from 7.58 units). The project is proposing 10 low-income units which will exceed 
the number of required units 
 
3) Description of Onsite Units 
o Unit Mix: 
 
8 1BRs; 2 studios 
o Affordability Levels: 
80% AMI 
o Provided Amenities – including parking:  
 
Dedicated lobby 
 
Dedicated Bike Room 
 
Dedicated Laundry Room 
 
Dedicated Roof Deck 
o Floor plans and unit layout for affordable housing units 
• 
See attached 
 
4) Construction Schedule (timing of the affordable housing units in relation to the non-residential 
portion) 
The affordable housing units will be constructed at the same time as the non-residential 
portion of the project 
 
5) Acknowledgement of Compliance with 23.61.050 
The project will comply with 23.61.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
172 of 1252

--- page 173 ---
644 Menlo Avenue 2nd Floor, Menlo Park, CA 94025 | t 650 838 0100 f 650 838 0900 | LANE-PARTNERS.COM 
 
 
 
Residential Floor Plan Layout in Blue Below 
 
 
 
173 of 1252

--- page 174 ---
W
W
W
W
1 BR
590 SF
9'-9 1/2"
11'-6 1/2"
10'-7"
5'-8"
10'-3 1/2"
6'-3"
27'-9"
12'-4"
5'-9 1/2"
5'-8"
7'-2 1/2"
1 BR
630 SF
7'-2"
9'-10"
14'-0"
S
460 SF
14'-1"
1 BR
590 SF
10'-3 1/2"
5'-8"
10'-7"
9'-9 1/2"
11'-6 1/2"
N
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
1/4" = 1'-0"
A-210
RESIDENTIAL UNIT PLANS
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
1-BED TYPE A (OPTION 2)
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
1-BED TYPE B
1/4" = 1'-0"
4
STUDIO
No. Date
Description
A
10/21/20 Pre-App Resubmittal
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
1-BED TYPE A (OPTION 1)
Residential Elevator
10' height
Stainless steel cab
Trash Room
Polish Concrete
FRP wall finish w/bumper rail
Floor Drain
Card Reader
A lot of airflow/scent machine
Bike Room
Freestanding double bike racks
Polish Concrete
Painted plywood wall finish
Card Reader
Laundry room
2 Washers & 2 Dryers
Polished concrete
Painted gyp board
Floor drain
Sensors in the pan with valve shut offs
Casework/secured lockers to store detergent
Card Reader
Hallway
Wall finish (orange peel)
Carpet tile
LED downlight down center of corridor
Stair #1 should be secured (Card Reader) into both apartment 
corridor and on to the Terrace
Units - Kitchen
Plumbing fixtures -Simmons or Koehler
Appliances -Whirlpool or GE
LVT throughout entire unit
Drywall/orange peel
Solid surface (or quartz) countertop with (4-6") backsplash
3cm peninsula countertop with 10”overhang
Drywall/orange peel
Undercounter cabinet lights
Units - Bathrooms
Plumbing fixtures -Simmons or Koehler
LVT flooring
Drywall/orange peel
Solid surface (or quartz) countertop with (4-6") backsplash
Fan light over shower/ sconces by sink
Tub/shower inserts
SHEET NOTES
174 of 1252

--- page 175 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21 
1 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair 
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Adam Nugent 
Seema Patel 
 
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, September 14, 2021 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-
20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
ROLL CALL 
Remote: Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent and Seema Patel 
Absent: Chair Ramiro Maldonado, 
 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Richard Hedges commented on his appreciation for retired Commissioner Etheridge’s service to the community as a 
Planning Commissioner. 
 
STUDY SESSION  
1. Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Grocery) 
 
Associate Planner, Wendy Lao presented an overview of the proposed project seeking direction on the  
following items: Site plan - The configuration of the site, including the proposed street loading zone for the grocery 
store and separated bike lane along B Street; Building Design - The architectural design, building materials, and 
compatibility with the Downtown Retail Core.  
Applicant, Marcus Gilmour with Lane Partners presented a timeline of the project’s progression and more details of 
the site plan and architectural design. Marcus also introduced Sheryl Klein with Alta Housing who is partnering  
with Lane Partners on the affordable housing of this project. 
 
Commissioners Questions: Commissioners had questions regarding current grocery store size vs. proposed: 
possibility of using mechanical lifts for parking vs. valet parking: possibility of assistance for funding from affordable 
housing organization to add more housing to project. 
 
Public Comment: Ranul Bahadur had questions about the configuration of the office space and about the access to  
the proposed open space by upper floors. Richard Hedges liked the design, supported Draeger’s as a tenant and had 
concerns about the loading zone configuration and pedestrian/bicycle access on B St.. Drew mentioned other ethnic 
grocers in the area and did not like the configuration of loading on B St. and felt the proposed configuration of 
Ellsworth as 2-way street was too narrow. Steve Sirianni liked the overall proposed design and saw no issues with 
the proposed B St. configuration for biking and pedestrian traffic. Laurie Watanuki liked the design, would like more 
details on proposed pedestrian walkway/bike lane/loading zone and suggested truck restriction on side streets. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 690C2D19-28CB-488C-93BF-D862FC57BD63
175 of 1252

--- page 176 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21 
2 
 
Cameron Plamer likes the design and hopes the loading zone/bike/pedestrian configuration can be resolved for the 
grocery store. Veril Phillip, resident of Gramercy felt it is important to keep Draeger’s but felt a big concern would be 
increased traffic and safety for pedestrians on 5th Ave., suggests a traffic light be put in place for pedestrian safety at 
5th and Ellsworth. Raayan Mohtashemi feels it is imperative that a grocery store is maintained at this project, felt 
proposed parking garage is over-sized, loading zone issues can be worked out, in favor of more family size housing at 
this site, does not like the design. Michael Weinhauer is in favor of housing at this site but would like to see 2 and 3 
bedroom apartments included vs. micro units, feels that having a grocery store is imperative to project, suggests 
decreasing parking garage spaces, in favor of keeping delivery trucks on main streets to decrease noise, and feels 
that design is uninspired. Mr. Ferrari, a Gramercy resident, feels that this project will have the negative impact of 
traffic congestion and noise and that the parking garage should move to Ellsworth. Dan likes design, and would love 
to see Draeger’s as part of this project, is ok with loading zone and feels that overall this project will benefit 
downtown and the residents of San Mateo. Robert Love and Mrs. Love had questions about the estimated time for 
construction and hours permitted for construction. They also felt that there would be increased traffic on 5th and 
that the parking garage had too many spaces. Koija Schluetter likes the design and that the proposed project would 
retain a grocery store. Diana is in support of the project and is in support of Draeger’s as part of the project and likes 
that they are good feature of downtown and good to their employees.  
 
Commissioners Comments: Commissioners agreed on the benefit of a grocery store at this project and overall  
project architectural design and is compatible with downtown retail core. Commissioners suggested expanding living 
walls and adding trees on B St. There was interest to work on the loading zone/bike lane/pedestrian walkway on B 
St. and the possibility of changing locations of the loading zone to Ellsworth to alleviate the traffic on B St. and 
provide for safety of pedestrians and bicyclists. Most commissioners would like to see more housing at this location 
and/or 2 and 3 bedroom units and would be interested in maximizing density and height to provide more housing. 
All commissioners commented that this and all future projects need to be cognizant of jobs/housing imbalance and 
how to create a balance in San Mateo. 
 
 
2. Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 500 E. 3rd Ave. (Block 21) 
 
Senior Planner, Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the proposed project seeking direction on the  
following items: Building Design – Overall architectural style and neighborhood compatibility; Site plan -Density 
Bonus Concession request and effect on proposed design.  Applicant, Mike Fields with Windy City Property Ventures 
also provided a more detailed overview of the history of the project, architectural style and detailed site plan. 
 
Commissioner Questions: Commissioners had questions about potential bike lane on Delaware, clarification of 
numbers of residential units and potential density bonus residential units, parking garage spaces ratio clarification, 
housing/jobs ratio balance, dimension of walls in courtyard between units, possible Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEEDS Silver) certification and questions about historical significance of proposed buildings 
that would be replaced by this project. 
 
Public Comments: Rahul Bahadur expressed his concern for lack of housing in San Mateo and this development, likes 
that it is located close to Caltrain and potential for commuters, suggested public art and murals for common areas. 
Richard Hedges in favor of adding higher height for more housing, likes design and expressed the importance of a 
grocery store. Erica Powell appreciates design and feels that the 68 units is a great addition and feels that biking lane 
and loading zone are safe for pedestrians and bicyclists. Laurie Watanuki likes the architecture, requesting traffic 
study for intersections at 3rd, 4th, 5th and 9th and South Humboldt and South Delaware, concerned about congestion, 
traffic and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists. Diana had concerns about size of units proposed and feels that 
considerations need to be made for families, also concerned about congestion and traffic in downtown due to more 
construction.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 690C2D19-28CB-488C-93BF-D862FC57BD63
176 of 1252

--- page 177 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21 
3 
 
Commissioners Comments: All Commissioners are in favor of height concession and would even like a larger height 
concession to see more housing. Commissioners expressed concerns that proposed project needs more housing 
including below market housing and 2 and 3-bedroom units to accommodate families. Most Commissioners liked 
the design but would like further considerations to specifics of design elements, site lines for bicycle and pedestrian 
safety, consideration to the character of neighborhood. Other concerns where jobs/housing ratio and the creation 
of balanced growth in San Mateo. There was also discussion amongst the commissioners about this and future 
projects and their impact on the neighborhood both to individuals, businesses, and city. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
CDD Deputy Director, Zachary Dahl, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 11:43 pm. 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Margaret Williams, Commission Vice-Chair 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 690C2D19-28CB-488C-93BF-D862FC57BD63
177 of 1252

--- page 178 ---
January 14, 2021
Ms. Wendy Lao
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
222 East Fourth Avenue
Dear Wendy:
I reviewed the drawings, and evaluated the site context. My comments on the plans and elevations for this project are 
as follows:
SITE CONTEXT
The site is located in Downtown San Mateo at the corner of the East Fourth Avenue and B Street commercial corridors. 
Other nearby structures include the Downtown Core Area and a large multifamily residential project immediate across 
East Fifth Avenue from the site. The site is within both the Downtown Area Plan and the Downtown Retail Core/Historic 
District Design Guidelines documents. Photographs of the site and surroundings are shown on the following page.
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN
178 of 1252

--- page 179 ---
THE SITE
EAST FOURTH AVENUE STOREFRONTS
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 2
179 of 1252

--- page 180 ---
B STREET STOREFRONTS
ELLSWORTH AVENUE STRUCTURES
EAST FIFTH AVENUE MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 3
180 of 1252

--- page 181 ---
ISSUES AND CONCERNS
The project consists of three levels of office and an upper level of 10 residential units over ground floor retail and two 
levels of below grade parking - see proposed sketches below.
The purpose of this preliminary design review is to identify issues that are likely to arise as the project proceeds to 
Planning Commission review in order for the applicant to anticipate and respond to the concerns prior to submit-
ting a formal application.
Overall, the project is well designed with design consistency throughout. There are a few specific issues outlined below, 
but the larger concern relates to its suitability, as currently designed, to this specific downtown site. This concern is in-
formed by discussions and decisions by the Planning Commission on other similar mixed use projects in downtown over 
the past few years. Some of the issues are as follows:
1.	 The entry lobbies to the offices and to the residential units are poorly defined.
East Fourth Avenue Facade
Ellsworth Avenue Facade
East Fifth Avenue Facade
B Street Facade
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 4
181 of 1252

--- page 182 ---
2.	 The massing and design of the East Fourth Avenue base facade is not very sympathetic to the commercial frontages 
across East Fourth Avenue and in the adjacent downtown area along East Fourth Avenue and B Street. The unifor-
mity of the storefronts as just similar openings in the brick wall is very much out of character with the uniqueness 
of the building’s immediate context.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 5
182 of 1252

--- page 183 ---
3.	 The overall building massing and facade/height articulation is not very sympathetic to the adjacent downtown area.
4.	 The massing, design, architectural details and landscaping of the East Fifth Avenue facade is not very sympathetic 
to the multifamily residential frontage across East Fifth Avenue.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 6
183 of 1252

--- page 184 ---
5.	 The two-story brick building base is divided into two different colors - red brick along East Fourth Avenue and B 
Street and dark gray brick along East Fifth Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue. This division between strong retail front-
ages and other frontages may work, but may need some further explanation and discussion.
6.	 The building corner at the East Fourth Avenue and B Street commercial corridors intersection is quite strong on 
the existing building and greatly down played on the proposed design.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 7
184 of 1252

--- page 185 ---
7.	 Overall, the facades of the building masses are very flat, in contrast to the depth and articulation of the current 
building on the site. While windows in the two-story building base have some recess, upper floor windows have 
very little.
8.	 Blade signage at the pedestrian level is an appropriate approach in this context, but the vertical format may not be 
workable as shown, given the potential visual blockage from sidewalk level by the projecting canopies.
9.	 Fabric awnings are noted along the retail frontages, but are not apparent in the sketches.
10.	The residential massing and facades on the top floor currently have no distinctive character or quality.
11.		The absence/extent of the private open space for the residential units seems quite limited given the large amount of 
roof area available.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 8
185 of 1252

--- page 186 ---
RECENT DOWNTOWN PROJECTS CONTEXT
Over the last few years, the Planning Commission has reviewed and approved several similar downtown mixed 
use projects  Each has undergone substantial discussion in regards to their design relationship to the character and 
texture of their downtown context. One important conflict has been common to most of these projects: A desire 
by the applicant’s architect for architectural design purity and the Planning Commission’s desire for an emphasis 
on contextual urban design. One should expect that the concerns and directions established in these reviews and 
approvals will influence the review of this new project. Images of the recent projects are shown below and on the 
following page.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 9
186 of 1252

--- page 187 ---
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 10
187 of 1252

--- page 188 ---
Features most often discussed and common to most of these projects include the following:
•	 Strong relationship to the immediately adjacent downtown character, articulation, materials and details.
•	 Ground floor storefronts related to the scale of nearby commercial storefronts.
•	 Distinctive building corner treatment.
•	  Variety in ground floor storefronts appropriate to the scale and character of downtown San Mateo.
•	 Substantial architectural detail and scale elements at the ground floor.
•	 Substantial facade articulation (both horizontal and vertical) to avoid box-like, repetitive structures.
•	 Breakup of larger building to reduce their apparent mass and sameness.
•	 Strong emphasis on a two-story building base through upper floor setbacks and color/material changes.
•	 Variation of materials to reflect the smaller scale of the downtown fabric.
•	 In some cases, storefront design guidelines to allow storefront variety and individualization within a con-
trolled architectural framework.
•	 Color variations to reduce the apparent visual mass of larger buildings.
•	 Strong emphasis on office and residential entries.
•	 Variety in window treatments to avoid excessive repetitiveness.
•	 Incorporation of materials and details related to the historic and traditional buildings remaining in down-
town San Mateo.
•	 Signage appropriate to the pedestrian environment.
EXISTING AND NEW
While it is not necessary or perhaps even advisable to replace the design or character of an existing downtown build-
ing when a new replacement building is proposed, it is probably wise to recognize that the Draeger’s building has been 
a landmark structure in downtown San Mateo for a long time, and the general public may be quite interested in its 
replacement at a time when concern is growing in the city and throughout the Peninsula from long-time residents con-
cerned with the changing character of their hometowns. In thinking through options for the design of this new mixed 
use project, it may be useful to compare the new to the old - shown below.
The primary features of the existing Draeger’s building are summarized on the following page.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 11
188 of 1252

--- page 189 ---
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 12
189 of 1252

--- page 190 ---
RECOMMENDATIONS
The intent of a preliminary review is to identify potential issues that are likely to be of concern to the Planning Commis-
sion, and to suggest some approaches that might be considered by the applicant in preparing their formal design applica-
tion for city review. Some approaches are suggested below.
1.	 Break up the box-on-box massing with articulation of heights and facades. Consider a projecting roof cornice.
2.	 Provide more elements of architectural scale and detail on the two floors of the building base. The overall goal 
should be to reflect the richness and variety of Downtown San Mateo street facades. Examples include:
•	 Sloped awnings.
•	 Decorative lights.
•	 Cornice cap at top of the two-story base.
•	 Projecting trim between the first and second floors.
•	 Projecting balconies or Juliette balconies at the second floor.
•	 Variety in storefront openings
A few examples are shown below.
3.	 Provide more individualization at ground floor storefronts. Suggest reviewing the design guidelines prepared for the 
other similar downtown mixed use projects.
4.	 Provide greater facade depth by recessing all windows.
5.	 Increase the proportion of brick wall surface relative to the windows on the upper floors.
6.	 Provide different window portions and greater window recesses on the second floor to distinguish them from the 
upper floors.
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 13
190 of 1252

--- page 191 ---
7.	 Provide more emphasis and architectural distinction at the office and residential entries.
8.	 Consider more variety in building materials and/or color to break up the large scale of the structure.
9.	 Provide more unique brick details as was customary on the older historic brick buildings downtown.	
10.	Increase the East Fifth Avenue facade sensitivity to the scale, character and landscaping of the immediately adjacent 
multifamily residential development frontage.
	
See multifamily residential streetscape photo below.
11.	Improve the appearance and provide for some private outdoor spaces on the upper residential floor.
12.	Consider a more distinctive corner treatment at the prime East Fourth Avenue and B Street retail corridors inter-
section. -See one example below.
13.	Design a well integrated pedestrian signage system that allows for some business individualism.
	
Two examples are shown below.
Wendy, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
222 East Fourth Avenue
Design Review Comments
January 14, 2021    Page 14
191 of 1252

--- page 192 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Mixed Use
Addendum to the General Plan EIR
and Downtown Area Specific Plan IS/MND
November 2022
Pr
e
p
a
re
d
b
y
In Consultation with
192 of 1252

--- page 193 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
i 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Section 1.0 
Introduction and Purpose ................................................................................................ 1 
 
Purpose of the Addendum ...................................................................................................... 1 
 
Notice of Determination ......................................................................................................... 3 
Section 2.0 
Project Information ......................................................................................................... 4 
 
Project Title ............................................................................................................................ 4 
 
Lead Agency Contact ............................................................................................................. 4 
 
Project Applicant .................................................................................................................... 4 
 
Project Location ...................................................................................................................... 4 
 
Assessor’s Parcel Numbers ..................................................................................................... 4 
 
General Plan Designation and Zoning District ....................................................................... 4 
 
Project-Related Approvals, Agreements, and Permits............................................................ 4 
Section 3.0 
Project Description .......................................................................................................... 9 
 
Project Location ...................................................................................................................... 9 
 
Proposed Project ..................................................................................................................... 9 
Section 4.0 
Environmental Setting, Checklist, and Impact Discussion ........................................... 21 
 
Aesthetics .............................................................................................................................. 22 
 
Agriculture and Forestry Resources ..................................................................................... 32 
 
Air Quality ............................................................................................................................ 35 
 
Biological Resources ............................................................................................................ 52 
 
Cultural Resources ................................................................................................................ 61 
 
Energy ................................................................................................................................... 68 
 
Geology and Soils ................................................................................................................. 74 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions ................................................................................................... 83 
 
Hazards and Hazardous Materials ........................................................................................ 94 
 
Hydrology and Water Quality ............................................................................................ 105 
 
Land Use and Planning ....................................................................................................... 115 
 
Mineral Resources .............................................................................................................. 119 
 
Noise ................................................................................................................................... 121 
 
Population and Housing ...................................................................................................... 138 
 
Public Services ................................................................................................................... 142 
 
Recreation ........................................................................................................................... 149 
 
Transportation ..................................................................................................................... 152 
 
Tribal Cultural Resources ................................................................................................... 164 
193 of 1252

--- page 194 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
ii 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Utilities and Service Systems ............................................................................................. 167 
 
Wildfire ............................................................................................................................... 177 
 
Mandatory Findings of Significance .................................................................................. 179 
Section 5.0 
References ................................................................................................................... 183 
Section 6.0 
Lead Agency and Consultants ..................................................................................... 189 
 
Lead Agency ....................................................................................................................... 189 
 
Consultants ......................................................................................................................... 189 
Section 7.0 
Acronyms and Abbreviations ...................................................................................... 191 
 
Figures 
Figure 2.7-1: Regional Map ................................................................................................................... 6 
Figure 2.7-2: Vicinity Map .................................................................................................................... 7 
Figure 2.7-3: Aerial Map ....................................................................................................................... 8 
Figure 3.2-1: Proposed Site Plan ......................................................................................................... 11 
Figure 3.2-2: Representative Parking Floor Plan ................................................................................. 12 
Figure 3.2-3: Level 1 Floor Plan .......................................................................................................... 13 
Figure 3.2-4: Level 2 Floor Plan .......................................................................................................... 14 
Figure 3.2-5: Level 3 Floor Plan .......................................................................................................... 15 
Figure 3.2-6: Level 4 Floor Plan .......................................................................................................... 16 
Figure 3.2-7: Level 5 Floor Plan .......................................................................................................... 17 
Figure 3.2-8: Conceptual Building Elevations – South and North ...................................................... 18 
Figure 3.2-9: Conceptual Building Elevations – West and East .......................................................... 19 
Figure 4.1-1: Conceptual Rendering .................................................................................................... 31 
Figure 4.3-1: Locations of Sensitive Receptors ................................................................................... 39 
Figure 4.3-2: Locations of MEIS and MEIR ....................................................................................... 48 
Figure 4.13-1: Noise Measurement Locations ................................................................................... 126 
 
Photos 
Photos 1 & 2  ....................................................................................................................................... 25 
Photos 3 & 4  ....................................................................................................................................... 26 
Photos 5 & 6  ....................................................................................................................................... 27 
 
 
Tables 
Table 4.3-1: Health Effects of Air Pollutants ...................................................................................... 35 
194 of 1252

--- page 195 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
iii 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.3-2: BAAQMD Air Quality Significance Thresholds ............................................................ 41 
Table 4.3-3: Average Construction Emissions Per Day ...................................................................... 42 
Table 4.3-4: Project Construction and Operational Community Health Risk Impacts ........................ 45 
Table 4.3-5: Impacts from Combined Sources at Off-Site MEIR ....................................................... 49 
Table 4.3-6: Health Risk Impacts to On-Site Receptors ...................................................................... 50 
Table 4.4-1: Summary of Existing Trees ............................................................................................. 55 
Table 4.8-1: Construction-Related GHG Emissions ............................................................................ 88 
Table 4.8-2: Operational-Related GHG Emissions .............................................................................. 89 
Table 4.13-1: Groundborne Vibration Impact Criteria ...................................................................... 122 
Table 4.13-2: Noise Sensitive Land-Use Compatibility Guidelines for Community Noise 
Environments  ..................................................................................................................................... 124 
Table 4.17-1: Project Trip Generation Estimates ............................................................................... 161 
 
Appendices 
Appendix A: Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Appendix B: Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment  
Appendix C: Tree Inventory, Assessment, and Protection Report  
Appendix D: Geotechnical Investigation 
Appendix E: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment 
Appendix F: Climate Action Plan Consistency Checklist  
Appendix G: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
Appendix H: Pre-construction Site Investigation Report 
Appendix I: Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report Conclusions and Responses to City of San 
Mateo Questions Letter 
Appendix J: Environmental Document Review Letter 
Appendix K: Noise and Vibration Assessment 
Appendix L: Transportation Impact Analysis 
Appendix M: Transportation Demand Management Plan 
 
 
 
 
195 of 1252

--- page 196 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
1 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 1.0   
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE 
 
PURPOSE OF THE ADDENDUM 
The City of San Mateo, as the Lead Agency, has prepared this Addendum for the 222 E 4th Avenue 
Mixed-Use Project in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the 
CEQA Guidelines (California Code of Regulations §15000 et. seq.) and the regulations and policies 
of the City San Mateo, California. 
 
The project proposes to demolish the existing Draeger’s Market located at 222 E 4th Avenue in the 
Downtown area of the City of San Mateo and redevelop the site with a new mixed-use building, 
consistent with the adopted Downtown Area Specific Plan and the 2030 General Plan. This 
Addendum evaluates the environmental impacts that might reasonably be anticipated to result from 
implementation of the proposed project. The project’s effects are discussed in this Addendum in 
terms of the environmental impacts that have been previously disclosed in the two prior CEQA 
documents completed by the City for the Downtown Area Specific Plan and the 2030 General Plan, 
respectively.  
 
1.1.1   
Downtown Area Specific Plan 
On May 1, 2009, the San Mateo City Council adopted the Downtown Area Specific Plan (DASP) 
and its associated Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND). The DASP establishes a 
framework for specific policies which pertain to new downtown development as well as preservation 
of existing downtown resources. The project site is located within the Downtown Retail Core sub-
area of the DASP. The DASP policies support the retail core shopping area by requiring retail uses 
along 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Avenues, San Mateo Drive, Ellsworth Avenue, and B Street. Other relevant 
priorities identified for the Downtown Retail Core identified by the DASP include providing housing 
for new households that will utilize downtown businesses and will be within proximity to the transit 
station to reduce vehicle trips, and providing pedestrian facility enhancements. The DASP IS/MND 
gave a plan-level analysis of the environmental effects of buildout of the implementing actions and 
goals of the DASP.  
 
1.1.2   
2030 General Plan 
In 2010, the City of San Mateo updated its General Plan to provide a framework for all zoning and 
land use decisions within the City through 2030. The Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) for 
the General Plan was certified by City Council on October 18, 2010. In 2005, San Mateo had a total 
of approximately 40,030 residential dwelling units and approximately 19.8 million square feet of 
non-residential (industrial, retail, and office) development throughout the City. The General Plan 
estimated that by 2030, the City will have approximately 48,360 residential dwelling units and 30.7 
million square feet of non-residential development. According to the California Department of 
Finance, the City of San Mateo had approximately 42,034 residential dwelling units as of January 1, 
2021, the most recent data available.1 Thus, the General Plan has not yet been fully built-out and the 
project, at 10 proposed residential units, would not cause an exceedance of the General Plan 
 
1 California Department of Finance. “E-5 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and the State – January 1, 2020 
and 2021.” https://dof.ca.gov/forecasting/demographics/estimates/estimates-e5-2010-2021/ Accessed April 18, 
2022. 
196 of 1252

--- page 197 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
2 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
assumptions. The General Plan EIR evaluated the environmental impacts of adoption and 
implementation of the General Plan Update.  
 
1.1.3   
Preparation of This Addendum 
The CEQA Guidelines §15162 states that when an EIR has been certified or a negative declaration 
adopted for a project, no subsequent EIR shall be prepared for that project unless the Lead Agency 
determined, on the basis of substantial evidence in light of the whole record, one or more of the 
following: 
 
1. Substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the previous 
EIR or negative declaration due to the involvement of new significant environmental effects or a 
substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects;  
 
2. Substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is 
undertaken which will require major revisions of the previous EIR or Negative Declaration due 
to the involvement of new significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in the 
severity of previously identified significant effects; or  
 
3. New information of substantial importance, which was not known and could not have been 
known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous EIR was certified as 
complete of the Negative Declaration was adopted, shows any of the following: 
 
a. The project will have one or more significant effects not discussed in the previous EIR or 
negative declaration;  
b. Significant effects previously examined will be substantially more severe than shown in 
the previous EIR; 
c. Mitigation measures or alternatives previously found not to be feasible would in fact be 
feasible and would substantially reduce one or more significant effects of the project, but 
the project proponents decline to adopt the mitigation measure or alternative; or  
d. Mitigation measures or alternatives which are considerably different from those analyzed 
in the previous EIR would substantially reduce one or more significant effects on the 
environment, but the project proponents decline to adopt the mitigation measure or 
alternative. 
 
CEQA Guidelines §15164 states that the Lead Agency or a Responsible Agency shall prepare an 
addendum to a previously certified EIR if some changes or additions are necessary, but none of the 
conditions described in §15162 (see above) calling for preparation of a subsequent EIR have 
occurred. This Addendum has demonstrated that none of the conditions requiring preparation of a 
subsequent EIR or negative declaration have occurred and that the proposed project would not result 
in any significant impacts not considered under the previously certified 2030 General Plan EIR and 
the DASP IS/MND, nor would there be a substantial increase in the severity of the significant 
impacts previously disclosed. Therefore, as provided by CEQA, this Addendum is the appropriate 
documentation to evaluate and disclose the environmental impacts that would result from the project. 
In Section 4.0 of this Addendum, each environmental resource listed under Appendix G of the CEQA 
Guidelines is evaluated in relation to the findings of the DASP IS/MND and the General Plan EIR. 
While the DASP is more specific to the project area within the City, the General Plan EIR is the 
197 of 1252

--- page 198 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
3 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
more recent of the two documents and incorporates the assumptions of the DASP. As discussed 
above, this Addendum shall address whether the proposed project would have a new or more severe 
significant environmental effect than was previously analyzed by the approved General Plan EIR 
(and by incorporation, the DASP IS/MND). In Section 4.0, the impact statements shall refer to the 
General Plan EIR as the “Approved Project”.  
 
 
NOTICE OF DETERMINATION 
If the project is approved, the City of San Mateo will file a Notice of Determination (NOD), which 
will be available for public inspection and posted within 24 hours of receipt at the County Clerk’s 
Office for 30 days. The filing of the NOD starts a 30-day statute of limitations on court challenges to 
the approval under CEQA (CEQA Guidelines Section 15075(g)). 
 
 
 
198 of 1252

--- page 199 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
4 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 2.0   
PROJECT INFORMATION  
 
PROJECT TITLE 
 
222 East 4th Avenue - Retail, Office and Residential Mixed Use 
 
 
LEAD AGENCY CONTACT 
 
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7219 
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
 
PROJECT APPLICANT 
Lane Partners, LLC 
644 Menlo Avenue, 2nd Floor 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
 
 
PROJECT LOCATION 
The approximately 1.1-acre site is located at 222 E. 4th Avenue in the City of San Mateo, California. 
The site is bounded by E. 4th Avenue to the northwest, S. B Street to the northeast, E. 5th Avenue to 
the southeast, and S. Ellsworth Avenue to the southwest. The project location is shown in Figure 
2.7-1 through Figure 2.7-3.  
 
 
ASSESSOR’S PARCEL NUMBERS 
034-176-050, 034-176-070, 034-176-080, 034-176-090 
 
 
GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION AND ZONING DISTRICT 
General Plan Land Use Designation: Downtown Retail Core 
Zoning: CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use) 
 
 
PROJECT-RELATED APPROVALS, AGREEMENTS, AND PERMITS 
Lot Tie Agreement 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for Tree Removal. Encroachment Permit 
Improvement Agreement 
Stormwater Treatment Maintenance Agreement 
Site Development Permit – Tree Removal (Ministerial) 
Demolition Permit (Ministerial) 
Building Permit (Ministerial) 
 
199 of 1252

--- page 200 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
5 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
2.7.1   
Responsible Agencies 
San Mateo County Groundwater Protection Program 
 
200 of 1252

--- page 201 ---
101
101
101
82
84
82
92
92
92
35
1
280
280
San Francisco Bay
San Bruno
Millbrae
Burlingame
Foster City
San Mateo
Belmont
San Carlos
Redwood City
Half Moon Bay
South San
Francisco
San Bruno
Millbrae
Burlingame
Foster City
San Mateo
Belmont
San Carlos
Redwood City
Half Moon Bay
South San
Francisco
Project Site
REGIONAL MAP
FIGURE 2.7-1
0
1
.5
0
1
.5
5 Miles
5 Miles
Pacific Ocean
Monterey Bay
San José
Fremont
Oakland
San Francisco
Santa Cruz
Morgan Hill
San José
Fremont
Campbell
Oakland
San Francisco
Daly City
Daly City
Santa Cruz
Mountain
View
Mountain
View
Redwood
City
Redwood
City
Morgan Hill
Project Site
Project Site
201 of 1252

--- page 202 ---
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
East 4th Avenue
East 4th Avenue
West 5th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
9th Avenue
9th Avenue
10th Avenue
3rd A
venue
Dartmouth Rd
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Delaware Street
South Eldorado Street
South Fremont Street
South Grant Street
South Claremont Street
South Railroad Avenue
South B Street
Laurel Avenue
South Ellsw
o
r
th Avenue
San Mateo Drive
2nd Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
A
r
r
o
y
o
C
o
u
rt
Crystal Springs 
Roa
d
East 4th Avenue
East 4th Avenue
West 5th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
9th Avenue
9th Avenue
10th Avenue
3rd A
venue
Dartmouth Rd
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Delaware Street
South Eldorado Street
South Fremont Street
South Grant Street
South Claremont Street
South Railroad Avenue
South B Street
Laurel Avenue
South Ellsw
o
r
th Avenue
San Mateo Drive
El Camino Real
El Camino Real
2nd Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
A
r
r
o
y
o
C
o
u
rt
Crystal Springs
Roa
d
82
82
Base Map: Google Maps
0
100
400
600
1,000 Feet
Project Site
Off-Site Improvements
VICINITY MAP
FIGURE 2.7-2
202 of 1252

--- page 203 ---
Commercial
Commercial &
Light Industrial
Commercial
Commercial
Commercial
Commercial
Parking
Lot
Parking Garage
Residential
Office
Park
East 4th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
7th Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Ellsworth Avenue
San Mateo Drive
San Mateo Drive
Laurel Avenue
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
East 4th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
7th Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Ellsworth Avenue
San Mateo Drive
San Mateo Drive
Laurel Avenue
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
Aerial Source: Google Earth Pro, Mar. 16, 2022.
Photo Date: Sep. 2021
0
50
200
300
400 Feet
Project Boundary
Off-Site Improvements
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH AND SURROUNDING LAND USES
FIGURE 2.7-3
203 of 1252

--- page 204 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
9 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 3.0   
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
PROJECT LOCATION 
The project site is located on 222 E. 4th Avenue in the City of San Mateo (Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 
034-176-050, 034-176-070, 034-176-080, 034-176-090). The site is bounded by E. 4th Avenue to the 
northwest, S. B Street to the northeast, E. 5th Avenue to the southeast, and S. Ellsworth Avenue to the 
southwest. The project site is approximately 49,478 square-feet, or approximately 1.1 acres, in size. 
The project site is currently occupied by an approximately 60,965 square-foot, 2-story, Draeger’s 
market that would be demolished as part of the project. The existing Draeger’s Market formerly 
contained a restaurant on the second floor, however, the restaurant has since been permanently 
closed.  
 
3.1.1   
Plan Designation and Zoning 
The project site is designated as Downtown Retail Core under the City’s General Plan and is zoned 
CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use). The Downtown Area 
Plan generally describes the Downtown Retail Core designation as a good mix of ground floor retail 
uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment. 
The San Mateo Municipal Code states that the purpose of the CBD District is to encourage the 
development and re-use of existing downtown structures as a center for retail, cultural, entertainment, 
and community services uses. Pedestrian activity should be strongly encouraged at the ground floor 
level, while upper floor office and residential uses should be encouraged to promote active daytime 
and nighttime use of the downtown area. The Residential Overlay District requires that residential 
development on properties zoned CBD/R be subject to /R density standards.  
 
The project site and surrounding parcels to the north and west of the project site were designated as 
Downtown Retail core by the 2030 General Plan. Surrounding parcels to the south and east of the 
project site were designated High-Density Multi-Family and Neighborhood Commercial/High-
Density Multi-Family. The project site and surrounding parcels to the north and west of the project 
site were designated as Downtown Retail Core and Central Parking and Improvement District 
(CPID) Parking Facility by the DASP. Surrounding parcels to the south and east of the project site 
were designated High Density Multi-Family and CPID Parking Facility by the DASP. Surrounding 
development to the northwest, northeast, and southwest of the project consists primarily of single-
story commercial buildings occupied by restaurants, retail stores, and offices. A six-story multi-
family residential building neighbors the project site to the southeast, across E. 5th Avenue. These 
existing conditions reflect what was present at the time both the DASP IS/MND and the 2030 
General Plan EIR were prepared, and so the environmental setting on and around the project site is 
consistent with what was evaluated in the DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR. There has 
been no substantial change in circumstances on and around the site since the DASP IS/MND and 
2030 General Plan EIR were prepared.  
 
 
PROPOSED PROJECT 
3.2.1   
Mixed-Use Building 
The project proposes to redevelop the site with a new five-story, 152,530 square-foot mixed-use 
building with two levels of below-grade parking. The building would consist of approximately 
204 of 1252

--- page 205 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
10 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
104,550 square-feet of office space, approximately 17,660 square-feet of retail space, and 
approximately 9,000 square-feet of residential space. The ground floor would consist of the retail 
space, the residential and office lobbies, utility rooms, a bicycle storage room, approximately 12,392 
square-feet of parking, an approximately 2,070 square-foot outdoor community open space, and an 
approximately 1,450 square-foot outdoor dining space. The community open space and outdoor 
dining space would include landscaping and outdoor seating. The second through fourth floors would 
consist of office space and outdoor terraces. The fifth floor would consist of 10 lower-income 
residential units made up of eight one-bedroom units and two studio units. The fifth floor would also 
include common usable open space for the proposed residential occupants. The project would also 
include two levels of below-grade parking.  
The project would include an approximately 500-kilowatt (kW), 755-horsepower (hp) diesel 
emergency backup generator on-site. The proposed generator would be run periodically for testing 
purposes and in the event of a power outage 
The proposed floor area ratio (FAR) for the site would be 3.1, meaning there would be three feet of 
building floor area for each foot of lot area, excluding the below grade parking. The proposed 
building would reach a maximum height of approximately 75 feet. The proposed site plan, floor 
plans, and conceptual building elevations are shown in Figure 3.2-1 through Figure 3.2-9.  
3.2.2  
Site Access and Parking 
Vehicle access to the site would primarily be provided via a parking garage entrance on E. 5th 
Avenue. From this garage entrance, vehicles would have access to covered parking on the ground 
floor and the two basement levels. The project would include approximately 221 total parking 
spaces. Out of the 221 total parking spaces, approximately 33 spaces would include electric vehicle 
(EV) charging stations. The parking spaces in the proposed garage would be reserved for the 
proposed office and retail uses on-site. Designated parking spaces would not be reserved for the 
proposed affordable housing units. The project would also include a truck loading/unloading zone 
along S. B Street. The project would result in the loss of 22 total on-street parking spaces by 
removing six spaces from E. 4th Avenue, eight spaces from E. 5th Avenue, and eight spaces from S. 
Ellsworth Avenue. The project would retain approximately five existing uncovered surface parking 
spaces along the project frontages of S. Ellsworth Avenue and seven spaces along E. 4th Avenue.  
The project would include a total of 38 bicycle spaces. Out of the 38 total bicycle spaces, 21 bicycle 
storage spaces would be long-term spaces split between two bicycle storage rooms within the 
proposed building. The remaining 17 bicycle spaces would be short-term spaces provided via 
ground-level bike racks on all four sides of the proposed building. Pedestrian access to the ground 
floor of the proposed building would be provided via several entrances along E. 4th Avenue, S. B 
Street, and S. Ellsworth Avenue.  
205 of 1252

--- page 206 ---
),)7+$9(18(
%675((7
)2857+$9(18(
(//6:257+$9(18(
/2$',1*




























&20081,7<
23(163$&(
6)
287'225',1,1*
63$&(
6)


















&20081,7<
3$5./(7
&20081,7<
3$5./(7


































































































Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
0
10’
30’
60’
N













OFFICE
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-1
206 of 1252

--- page 207 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
3$5.,1*
5$0383
327(17,$/
)8785(*5($6(
,17(5&(3725
/2&$7,21
327(17,$/
)8785(*5($6(
,17(5&(3725
/2&$7,21
3$5.,1*
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
$
$
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
9$1
(9




















(9
(9
(9
6
6
6
6
6
*(1(5$725
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
6
6
6
(9
$
6
9$1
$
$
(9
(9
6
6








7<3


7<3


$


(9
6








$


7<3


7<3




6
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
(9
 127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($
&/($5


67$//6

0
10’
20’
40’
N
*NOT INCLUDED IN
 GROSS FLOOR AREA
PARKING*
REPRESENTATIVE PARKING FLOOR PLAN (B1 & B2)
FIGURE 3.2-2
207 of 1252

--- page 208 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
5(7$,/
2)),&(
/2%%<
.,7&+(16(59,&(66+$)7
)25*52&(5<$%29(
5()5,*(5$176+$)7)25
*52&(5<
6833/<(;+$8676+$)7
)252)),&($%29(
(;+$8676+$)76)25
*$5$*(
2)),&((/(9$7256
6833/<6+$)7)25*$5$*(
5$03'1
*$5$*((175<(;,73529,'(9(57,&$/
&/($5$1&(%$529(5+($'
3$5.,1*

[
23(1,1*

[
23(1,1*
'$65,6(5
(/(&5,6(5








%,.(
6725$*(




327(17,$/5(7$,/
(175$1&(
5(7$,//2$',1*75$6+$&&(66
67$,5
67$,5
:$7(53803
(/(9&75/
),5(3803
),5(
&21752/
032(
%$&.)/2:
35(9(17(56
75$6+
&255,'25
0$,1
(/(&75,&$/
75$16)250(5
0(3
*$5$*(
/2%%<
'$6%06
2)),&(
3$5.,1*
5(6,'(17,$/
5(7$,/
6+$5('$//86(6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
&
$
&
&
&


















6+2:(56
(/(9


(/

(/

(/

(/

(/

(/(9
38%/,&3$5.,1*$&&(66
5(6,'(17,$/(/(9$725
38%/,&(/(9$725
67$,5
68%
(/(&75,&
5(6,'(17,$/
/2%%<
(/(9
(/

(;,7
3$66$*(:$<
)$&,/,7,(6
(/



9$1
9(67,%8/(


127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($







&/($5










67$//6

0
10’
20’
40’
N
LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-3
208 of 1252

--- page 209 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, March 19, 2021.
7(1$17
63$&(
(/(&75,&$/
2)),&(
127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($

[
23(1,1*6

[
23(1,1*6
N
LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-4
209 of 1252

--- page 210 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, March 19, 2021.
7(1$17
63$&(
7(55$&(
7(55$&(
(/(&75,&$/

[
23(1,1*6

[
23(1,1*6
2)),&(
7(55$&(
127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($




N
LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-5
210 of 1252

--- page 211 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, March 19, 2021.
7(1$17
63$&(
(/(&75,&$/
7(55$&(




2)),&(
7(55$&(
127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($

[
23(1,1*6

[
23(1,1*6
N
LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-6
211 of 1252

--- page 212 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
'
:
'
6)
&20021
86$%/(
23(163$&(
(;&/86,9(
72
5(6,'(17,$/
2)),&(
522)'(&.
6)
0(&+$1,&$/
3(17+286(
5(6,'(17,$/
(*5(663$7+:$<
3/$17,1*
5(6,'(17,$/
5(6,'(17,$/&20021
23(163$&(
6+$5('$//86(6
7(55$&(
6)
62/$5=21(
.90,1
2)),&(95)&2035(66256
0$.(83$,5
),567)/225
0$.(83$,5
.,7&+(1
*5($6(
(;+$867
.,7&+(1
*$5$*(
(;+$867
*$5$*(
(;+$867
0$.(83$,5
2)),&(
(/(9$725
72522)
'(&.
2)),&(95)&2035(66256
67)/595)&2035(66256
0$.(83$,5
2)),&(
%5
6)
%5
6)
%5
6)
%5
6)
6
6)
6
6)
%5
6)
%5
6)
(*5(663$7+:$<
%5
6)
%5
6)
(*5(663$7+:$<


















%,.(6725$*(
127,1&/8'(',1*5266)/225$5($
/$81'5<
75$6+






2&
*&$57
&203267
*&$57
5(&<&/(
*&$57
5(&<&/(
*&$57
5(&<&/(
*&$57
:$67(
*&$57
:$67(
*&$57
:$67(






N
MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
4,997 SF
COMMON USABLE
OPEN SPACE
(EXCLUSIVE TO
RESIDENTIAL)*
1,724 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
FIGURE 3.2-7
212 of 1252

--- page 213 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/














522)

3523(57</,1(
3523(57</,1(
/(9(/
522)'(&.
726&5((1





3/$7(+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


727$/+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(




/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

522)'(&.













522)

3523(57</,1(
3523(57</,1(
/(9(/

726&5((1





3/$7(+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


727$/+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(



SOUTH ELEVATION (5TH STREET)
NORTH ELEVATION (4TH STREET)
CONCEPTUAL BUILDING ELEVATIONS - SOUTH AND NORTH
FIGURE 3.2-8
213 of 1252

--- page 214 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
WEST ELEVATION (ELLSWORTH AVENUE)
EAST ELEVATION (B STREET)
/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

522)'(&.













522)

3523(57</,1(
3523(57</,1(
/(9(/

726&5((1






3/$7(+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


727$/%8,/',1*+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

/(9(/

522)'(&.

522)

3523(57</,1(
3523(57</,1(












/(9(/

726&5((1






3/$7(+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


727$/+(,*+70($685(')520(*5$'(


CONCEPTUAL BUILDING ELEVATIONS – WEST AND EAST
FIGURE 3.2-9
214 of 1252

--- page 215 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
20 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
3.2.3   
Landscaping and Trees 
There is one existing tree on-site and 38 street trees located around the perimeter of the project site. 
The project would remove all 39 existing trees, none of which are considered Heritage Trees under 
the City’s Protected Trees Ordinance (Municipal Code Chapter 13.40). The project would plant 37 
new trees (33 street trees andfour4 trees on-site), resulting in a net decrease of two trees in total. 
Landscaping would be provided around the perimeter of the proposed building, in the community 
open space, along the third-floor terrace, and along portions of the perimeter of the rooftop.  
 
3.2.4   
Off-Site Improvements 
• 
Remove and replace curb, gutter, sidewalk, curb extensions, and ADA curb ramps along all 
project intersections. 
• 
Curb to curb pavement restoration (grind & overlay) and striping along all frontages 
including intersections. 
• 
Street lighting along all frontages. 
• 
Landscaping including, tree wells, street trees and Green Infrastructure along frontages. 
• 
New 18” Storm Drain line installation along the length of the project boundary on S. B Street 
and S. Ellsworth Avenue and portions of 5th and 4th Avenue. (see Figure 2.7-3) 
• 
Extend existing 105-foot commercial loading zone along S. B Street to 120 feet 
• 
New Class II bicycle facility on 5th Avenue 
 
3.2.5   
Green Building Measures 
The project would be designed for energy efficiency and water conservation in accordance with the 
latest California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen). This includes mandatory installation 
of low-flow plumbing fixtures and low-water use landscaping. In addition, photovoltaic panels would 
be installed on the rooftop, Energy Star appliances would be provided in the units, and windows 
would utilize low-emissivity glass. The project would conform to the City’s Reach Code (currently 
Municipal Code Chapter 23.24), which requires new mixed-use buildings to be all-electric with a 
higher energy efficiency than what is required by CALGreen standards. 
 
3.2.6   
Construction 
It is anticipated that the project would be constructed over an approximate 20-month period. It is 
estimated that construction of the project would require the export of approximately 25,828 cubic 
yards of soil due to excavation on-site to a maximum depth of approximately 25 feet below ground 
surface (bgs). Construction equipment would be staged on the project site, however, the construction 
fenceline and construction material delivery trucks would encroach on the public right-of-way of the 
streets bounding the project site while parked. Bike lane access on S. B Street would be maintained 
throughout construction. Construction hours in the City of San Mateo are between 7:00 AM to 7:00 
PM Monday through Friday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM on Saturdays, and 12:00 PM to 4:00 PM on 
Sundays and holidays.  
 
 
 
215 of 1252

--- page 216 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
21 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 4.0   
ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING, CHECKLIST, AND 
IMPACT DISCUSSION 
This section presents the discussion of impacts related to the following environmental subjects in 
their respective subsections: 
 
4.1 
Aesthetics 
4.2 
Agriculture and Forestry Resources 
4.3 
Air Quality 
4.4 
Biological Resources 
4.5 
Cultural Resources 
4.6        Energy 
4.7 
Geology and Soils 
4.8 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
4.9 
Hazards and Hazardous Materials 
4.10 
Hydrology and Water Quality 
4.11 
Land Use and Planning 
 
4.12 
Mineral Resources 
4.13  
Noise 
4.14 
Population and Housing 
4.15 
Public Services 
4.16 
Recreation 
4.17 
Transportation 
4.18      Tribal Cultural Resources 
4.19 
Utilities and Service Systems 
4.20      Wildfire 
4.21 
Mandatory Findings of Significance 
The discussion for each environmental subject includes the following subsections: 
 
• 
Environmental Setting – This subsection 1) provides a brief overview of relevant plans, 
policies, and regulations that compose the regulatory framework for the project and 2) 
describes the existing, physical environmental conditions at the project site and in the 
surrounding area, as relevant. 
• 
Impact Discussion – This subsection 1) includes the recommended checklist questions from 
Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines to assess impacts and 2) discusses the project’s impact 
on the environmental subject as related to the checklist questions. For significant impacts, 
feasible mitigation measures are identified. “Mitigation measures” are measures that will 
minimize, avoid, or eliminate a significant impact (CEQA Guidelines Section 15370). Each 
impact is numbered to correspond to the checklist question being answered. For example, 
Impact AIR-1 answers the first checklist question in the Air Quality section. Mitigation 
measures are also numbered to correspond to the impact they address. For example, MM 
AIR-3.1 refers to the first mitigation measure for the third impact in the Air Quality section.  
 
 
216 of 1252

--- page 217 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
22 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
AESTHETICS 
4.1.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State  
Senate Bill 743 
Senate Bill (SB) 743 was adopted in 2013 and requires lead agencies to use alternatives to level of 
service (LOS) for evaluating transportation impacts, specifically vehicle miles traveled (VMT). SB 
743 also included changes to CEQA (CEQA Guidelines Section 21099) that apply to transit-oriented 
developments, as related to aesthetics and parking impacts. Under SB 743, a project’s aesthetic 
impacts will no longer be considered significant impacts on the environment if: 
 
• 
The project is a residential or mixed-use residential project, and 
• 
The project is located on an infill site within a transit priority area.2  
 
SB 743 also clarifies that local governments retain their ability to regulate a project’s aesthetics 
impacts outside of the CEQA process. The proposed mixed-use building is located on an infill site 
and the project site is within a half-mile of the San Mateo Caltrain station as well as multiple bus 
routes with frequent headways and thus, is considered within a transit priority area. Therefore, SB 
743 would apply to the proposed project. The discussion of aesthetic impacts in the following section 
is for informational purposes only and does not make a determination of significance under CEQA, 
as the project’s aesthetic impacts are deemed less than significant by statute.  
 
Streets and Highway Code Sections 260 through 263 
The California Scenic Highway Program (Streets and Highway Code, Sections 260 through 263) is 
managed by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). The program is intended to 
protect and enhance the natural scenic beauty of California highways and adjacent corridors through 
special conservation treatment. In San Mateo County, there are three state-designated scenic 
highways, including the segment of California State Route 1 (SR-1) between south of Half Moon 
Bay to the Santa Cruz County line (approximately nine miles west from the project site), the 
Interstate 280 (I-280) segment near the City of San Bruno to Santa Clara County line (approximately 
2.9 miles west from the project site), and the California State Route 35 (SR-35) segment between 
 
2 An “infill site” is defined as “a lot located within an urban area that has been previously developed, or on a vacant 
site where at least 75 percent of the perimeter of the site adjoins, or is separated only by an improved public right-of-
way from, parcels that are developed with qualified urban uses.” A “transit priority area” is defined as “an area 
within 0.5 mile of a major transit stop that is existing or planned, if the planned stop is scheduled to be completed 
within the planning horizon included in a Transportation Improvement Program or applicable regional transportation 
plan.” A “major transit stop” means “a site containing an existing rail transit station, a ferry terminal served by either 
a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service interval 
of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.” Source: Office of Planning and 
Research. “CEQA Review of Housing Projects Technical Advisory.” Accessed April 13, 2022. 
https://opr.ca.gov/docs/20190208-TechAdvisory-Review_of_Housing_Exemptions.pdf.  
217 of 1252

--- page 218 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
23 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
State Route 92 (SR-92) intersection to Santa Cruz County Line (approximately four miles west from 
the project site). There are no state-designated scenic highways in the City of San Mateo.3 
 
Local 
County of San Mateo General Plan 
The County of San Mateo General Plan states that Alameda de las Pulgas (approximately one mile 
southwest), Crystal Springs Road (approximately 0.3 miles west), Polhemus Road (approximately 
2.6 miles southwest), and State Route 92 (approximately 5.4 miles southwest) are County-designated 
scenic roads.4  
 
City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan 
The City of San Mateo General Plan does not designate any scenic roadways in the City as locally 
scenic. The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan contains goals and policies related to Urban Design 
and City Image that are applicable to the proposed project. It describes corridors as the way residents 
and visitors most commonly see the City and suggests that a well-designed corridor should lead to a 
destination, provide a sense of orientation, be attractive and project a positive image of the City. The 
relevant policies are listed below. 
 
Policies  
Description 
UD 2.2 
Building Scale. Ensure that new multi-family developments respect the existing scale of the 
neighboring buildings by providing a change in the building face at spacings common to existing 
buildings and by stepping down building height towards the street to more closely match the height of 
existing buildings.  
UD 2.3 
Style and Materials. Encourage the design of new multi-family developments in areas with a dominant 
building style or dominant type of exterior building materials to complement the style and incorporate 
the common materials of the area.  
UD 2.7 
Respect Existing Scale. Encourage new commercial development to respect the scale of surrounding 
buildings by providing breaks in the building face at spacings common to buildings in the area and by 
stepping back upper floors. 
UD 2.9 
Pedestrian Oriented Design. On retail commercial projects, designate pedestrian activity as a priority 
through the design and provision of adequate sidewalk widths, locating windows along ground floor 
street facades, trees and awnings, and human scale construction materials and features.  
UD 2.16 
Design and Placement of Solar Access and Panels. Encourage applicants to incorporate solar energy 
systems into their projects. Building owners can minimize non-renewable heating and cooling 
methods and maximize solar heat gain by using solar panels and innovative building design features 
such as the use of overhangs, having south-facing windows and planting trees that provide shade. 
Important considerations in the design and placement of solar panels include:  
a. 
Building placement and adjacencies should be considered such that they do not unreasonably 
affect the solar access of neighboring residential properties. 
b. Solar panels and other roof-mounted equipment should be integrated into building design so 
as to not detract from the appearance of a home and reduce obtrusiveness. 
c. 
Roof-mounted solar energy equipment and panels should be located below ridgelines and on 
sides of roof and away from street view wherever possible. Non-glare and non-reflective type 
panels should be utilized. 
 
3 California Department of Transportation. Scenic Highways. Available at: https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-
landscape-architecture-and-community-livability/lap-liv-i-scenic-highways.  Accessed October 18, 2022. 
4 San Mateo County. General Plan. November 1986. 
218 of 1252

--- page 219 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
24 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
d. The design and placement of roof-mounted solar panels should account for the heights of 
existing trees and future growth. This applies to both trees on-site and neighboring properties, 
including Heritage trees and street trees.  
C/OS 6.4 
Retain the maximum feasible number of trees and preserve the character of stands or groves of trees in 
the design of new or modified projects. 
C/OS 14.10 
When master planning or significantly redeveloping existing facilities, develop an image plan that 
includes the effective use of signage, color schemes, lighting and plant material which meets both 
aesthetic and maintenance needs. 
 
City of San Mateo Zoning Ordinance  
The City’s Zoning Ordinance, Title 27 in the Municipal Code, provides standards for the physical 
development of the City. The City’s Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) process applies to 
new building construction, projects involving historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan 
area, and duplexes. SPAR establishes the following specific findings that must be made to allow 
approval of new building construction: 
 
• 
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character 
of the neighborhood; 
• 
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City; 
• 
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
• 
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the Zoning Ordinance, Building Code, or other Municipal Codes that exist on the site; and 
• 
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The project site is currently developed with a Draeger’s Market and a parking garage on the ground 
floor and below-grade level. The project site also contains landscaping along the perimeter of the 
existing building and parking lot. Street trees also line the boundaries of the project site. The 
Draeger’s Market building is two stories tall and is characterized by a largely flat roof, awnings, 
glass doors, a covered balcony on the northwest side of the second floor, and limited windows.  
 
The project site is located in a highly urbanized area. Surrounding development to the northwest, 
northeast, and southwest of the project consists primarily of single-story commercial buildings 
occupied by restaurants, retail stores, and offices. A six-story multi-family residential building 
neighbors the project site to the southeast, across E. 5th Avenue. Street. Existing views from the 
project site are limited to the surrounding development, trees, and landscaping due to the urban 
nature of the area and the relatively flat topography. Views of the existing Draeger’s Market building 
and the surrounding vicinity are provided in Photos 1 through 6.  
 
 
219 of 1252

--- page 220 ---
Source: Google Earth.
Photo 1: View of existing Draeger’s Market from E. 4th Avenue.
Photo 2: View of existing Draeger’s Market from parking lot along S. Ellsworth Avenue.
PHOTOS 1 & 2 
220 of 1252

--- page 221 ---
Source: Google Earth.
Photo 3: View of commercial buildings across E. 4th Avenue.
Photo 4: View of commercial building across S. Ellsworth Avenue.
PHOTOS 3 & 4
221 of 1252

--- page 222 ---
Source: Google Earth.
Photo 5: View of multi-family residential building across E. 5th Avenue.
Photo 6: View of commercial buildings across S. B Street.
PHOTOS 5 & 6
222 of 1252

--- page 223 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
28 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
The project site is not located in a designated scenic view corridor and is not near any scenic vistas.5 
The San Francisco Bay is not visible from the site. As discussed above, the City does not contain any 
officially state-designated scenic highways, or City-designated scenic roadways. The site is not 
located near a state scenic highway or County-designated scenic highway.6 The nearest officially 
designated state scenic highway is I-280, located approximately three miles west of the project site. 
The project site is not visible from I-280 at this distance.  
 
4.1.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Have a substantial adverse effect on a 
scenic vista? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Substantially damage scenic resources, 
including, but not limited to, trees, rock 
outcroppings, and historic buildings within 
a state scenic highway? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) In non-urbanized areas, substantially 
degrade the existing visual character or 
quality of public views of the site and its 
surroundings?7 If the project is in an 
urbanized area, would the project conflict 
with applicable zoning and other 
regulations governing scenic quality? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Create a new source of substantial light or 
glare which would adversely affect day or 
nighttime views in the area?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The project site and surrounding parcels to the north and west of 
the project site were designated as Downtown Retail Core and Central Parking and Improvement 
District (CPID) Parking Facility by the DASP. Surrounding parcels to the south and east of the 
project site had various designations including High Density Multi-Family, Parks/Downtown Plaza, 
and CPID Parking Facility. Thus, the project vicinity was assumed by the DASP to have a visual 
character typical of a developed urban setting. As previously described, the existing visual character 
of the project vicinity is characterized by urban development. The circumstances evaluated by the 
DASP IS/MND have not changed with regards to aesthetics.  
 
The DASP IS/MND determined that the policies and guidelines of the DASP and individual project-
level review of development throughout the Downtown Area would ensure that buildout of the 
 
5 City of San Mateo. 2030 General Plan. 2011. 
6 California Department of Transportation. State Scenic Highway System Map. Available at:  
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-landscape-architecture-and-community-livability/lap-liv-i-scenic-highways.  
Accessed April 13, 2022. 
7 Public views are those that are experienced from publicly accessible vantage points. 
223 of 1252

--- page 224 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
29 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
DASP would have a less than significant aesthetics impact. As described above, pursuant to SB 743, 
which was enacted after the adoption of the DASP, the project’s aesthetic impacts are considered to 
be less than significant by statute since the project is a mixed-use residential project and is located on 
an infill site within a transit priority area. Therefore, the project would have the same level of impact 
as disclosed in the DASP IS/MND.  
 
Impact AES-1: 
The project would not have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project site is not located within or near any scenic view corridors or scenic vistas and therefore, 
the project would not have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact AES-2: 
The project would not substantially damage scenic resources, including, but 
not limited to, trees, rock outcroppings, and historic buildings within a state 
scenic highway. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
As previously discussed, the project site is not within visible distance from a state scenic highway. 
The nearest state scenic highway, I-280, is located approximately three miles west of the project site. 
The nearest County-designated scenic is Crystal Springs Road, located approximately 0.3 miles west 
of the project site. The project site is not visible from Crystal Springs Road due to the surrounding 
development. Therefore, the project would not substantially damage scenic resources within a state 
scenic highway. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact AES-3: 
The project would not substantially degrade the existing visual character or 
quality of public views of the site and its surroundings. The project would not 
conflict with applicable zoning and other regulations governing scenic quality. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
While the mass, scale, and building height of the proposed building would be greater than the 
existing development on site, the project would not be out of scale with existing development in the 
Downtown area, nor conflict with an established architectural pattern or unified neighborhood 
character, as the area is a mix of design styles and uses. The proposed mixed-use building would be 
similar in terms of mass and scale to the adjacent multi-family residential building across E. 5th 
Avenue. The proposed building would reach a maximum height of 75 feet, as allowed by AB 1763 
and if approved by the City Council.  
 
As proposed, the mixed-use building would be characterized by flat roofs, outdoor upper story 
terraces, large windows, living walls, and a community open space on the ground level. The exterior 
of the proposed building would consist of a variety of building materials including red brick, glass, 
wood, painted aluminum, and concrete. A conceptual rendering of the proposed building is shown in 
Figure 4.1-1. Landscaping would also be provided around the perimeter of the proposed building, in 
the community open space, along the third-floor terrace, and along portions of the perimeter of the 
rooftop.  
 
224 of 1252

--- page 225 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
30 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Additionally, the final building designs would be subject to the City’s Site Plan and Architectural 
Review (SPAR) process. While the proposed project would change the visual character of the site 
and the surrounding area, the building design and exterior materials would be selected in a manner 
that ensures congruency with adjacent buildings and neighborhoods. Therefore, implementation of 
the proposed project would not result in significant impacts to visual character and quality, nor 
conflict with zoning and other regulations governing scenic quality. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact AES-4: 
The project would not create a new source of substantial light or glare which 
would adversely affect day or nighttime views in the area. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project will be subject to the SPAR process prior to submittal of construction drawings for a 
building permit. This review would ensure that the proposed design and construction materials are 
consistent with community standards for multi-family development, and would not adversely affect 
the visual quality of the area, or create a substantial new source of light and glare. 
 
The project would include lighting along the perimeter of the proposed mixed-use building. 
According to the project lighting plan, lighting fixtures would include LED pole lights, LED 
downlights, and LED strips. New lighting sources would be installed on the site in conformance with 
City’s design guidelines. At the time of final design review, a lighting plan will be reviewed by the 
City, to ensure that lighting is directed downward and will not spill over onto adjacent properties or 
otherwise be highly visible. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
225 of 1252

--- page 226 ---
Source: Korth Sunseri Hagey Architects, February 4, 2022.
CONCEPTUAL RENDERING
FIGURE 4.1-1
226 of 1252

--- page 227 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
32 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY RESOURCES 
4.2.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework 
State  
Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program 
The California Department of Conservation’s Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program (FMMP) 
assesses the location, quality, and quantity of agricultural land and conversion of these lands over 
time. Agricultural land is rated according to soil quality and irrigation status. The best quality land is 
identified as Prime Farmland. In CEQA analyses, the FMMP classifications and published county 
maps are used, in part, to identify whether agricultural resources that could be affected are present 
on-site or in the project area.8  
 
California Land Conservation Act  
The California Land Conservation Act (Williamson Act) enables local governments to enter into 
contracts with private landowners to restrict parcels of land to agricultural or related open space uses. 
In return, landowners receive lower property tax assessments. In CEQA analyses, identification of 
properties that are under a Williamson Act contract is used to also identify sites that may contain 
agricultural resources or are zoned for agricultural uses.9 
 
Fire and Resource Assessment Program 
The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) identifies forest land, 
timberland, and lands zoned for timberland production that can (or do) support forestry resources.10 
Programs such as CAL FIRE’s Fire and Resource Assessment Program and are used to identify 
whether forest land, timberland, or timberland production areas that could be affected are located on 
or adjacent to a project site.11 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The project site is currently developed with a Draeger’s market and is surrounded by urban uses. The 
project site is designated as Downtown Retail Core under the City’s General Plan and is zoned 
CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use). The San Mateo County 
Important Farmlands 2018 Map designates the project site as “Urban and Built-Up Land”, defined as 
 
8 California Department of Conservation. “Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program.” Accessed April 7, 2022. 
http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/fmmp/Pages/Index.aspx.  
9 California Department of Conservation. “Williamson Act.” http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/lca.  
10 Forest Land is land that can support 10 percent native tree cover and allows for management of forest resources 
(California Public Resources Code Section 12220(g)); Timberland is land not owned by the federal government or 
designated as experimental forest land that is available for, and capable of, growing trees to produce lumber and 
other products, including Christmas trees (California Public Resources Code Section 4526); and Timberland 
Production is land used for growing and harvesting timber and compatible uses (Government Code Section 
51104(g)). 
11 California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. “Fire and Resource Assessment Program.” Accessed April 
7, 2022. http://frap.fire.ca.gov/. 
227 of 1252

--- page 228 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
33 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
land with at least six structures per 10 acres. Common examples of “Urban and Built-Up Land” are 
residential, institutional, industrial, commercial, landfill, golf course, airports, and other utility uses.12 
The site is not under a Williamson Act contract and there are no existing agricultural or forestry 
resources on or in the vicinity of the site. 13 
 
4.2.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, 
or Farmland of Statewide Importance 
(Farmland), as shown on the maps prepared 
pursuant to the Farmland Mapping and 
Monitoring Program of the California 
Resources Agency, to non-agricultural use? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Conflict with existing zoning for 
agricultural use, or a Williamson Act 
contract? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause 
rezoning of, forest land (as defined in 
Public Resources Code Section 12220(g)), 
timberland (as defined by Public Resources 
Code Section 4526), or timberland zoned 
Timberland Production (as defined by 
Government Code Section 51104(g))? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Result in a loss of forest land or conversion 
of forest land to non-forest use? 
 
 
 
 
 
5) Involve other changes in the existing 
environment which, due to their location or 
nature, could result in conversion of 
Farmland to non-agricultural use or 
conversion of forest land to non-forest use? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that no farmlands or lands under 
a Williamson Act contract exist within the San Mateo Downtown Area and thus, determined that 
buildout of the DASP would have no impact on agricultural resources. Impacts to forestry resources 
were not discussed in the DASP IS/MND, as consideration of forestry resources was not part of the 
CEQA Guidelines Appendix G Checklist at the time.  
 
 
 
 
12 California Natural Resources Agency. San Mateo County Important Farmland 2018. September 2019. Accessed 
April 7, 2022. https://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/fmmp/Pages/SanMateo.aspx 
13 California Department of Conservation, Division of Land Resource Protection. San Mateo County Williamson Act 
FY 2006/2007. 2012. 
228 of 1252

--- page 229 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
34 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact AG-1: 
The project would not convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or 
Farmland of Statewide Importance, as shown on the maps prepared pursuant 
to the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program of the California 
Resources Agency, to non-agricultural use. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (No Impact)] 
 
The proposed project would redevelop a parcel that is designated as “Urban and Built-Up Land” on 
maps prepared by the California Resources Agency for San Mateo County. Therefore, no farmland 
would be converted to non-agricultural use as a result of project implementation. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact AG-2: 
The project would not conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a 
Williamson Act contract. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is zoned CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed 
Use). The project site is not under a Williamson Act contract. Therefore, the project will not conflict 
with existing zoning for an agricultural use or a Williamson Act contract. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact AG-3: 
The project would not conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning of, 
forest land, timberland, or timberland zoned Timberland Production. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is not zoned, or adjacent to land zoned, for forest land, timberland, or Timberland 
Production. Therefore, the project would not conflict with existing zoning or require rezoning of 
forest land or timberland uses. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact AG-4: 
The project would not result in a loss of forest land or conversion of forest 
land to non-forest use. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is located in an urbanized area of the City and does not contain any forest lands. 
Therefore, no forest land would be lost as a result of the project. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact AG-5: 
The project would not involve other changes in the existing environment 
which, due to their location or nature, could result in conversion of Farmland, 
to non-agricultural use or conversion of forest land to non-forest use. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is located in an urbanized area of the City. The project would not result in impacts to 
agricultural lands or forest lands in the surrounding region. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No 
Impact)] 
 
229 of 1252

--- page 230 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
35 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
AIR QUALITY 
The following discussion is based, in part, on an Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment prepared 
for the project by Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. (Ramboll), dated July 2022. A copy of this report is 
included in Appendix B of this Addendum.  
 
4.3.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Background Information 
Criteria Pollutants 
Air quality in the Bay Area is assessed related to six common air pollutants (referred to as criteria 
pollutants), including ground-level ozone (O3), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM), 
carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur oxides (SOx), and lead.14 Criteria pollutants are regulated because they 
result in health effects. An overview of the sources of criteria pollutants and their associated health 
are summarized in Table 4.3-1. The most commonly regulated criteria pollutants in the Bay Area are 
discussed further below.  
 
Table 4.3-1: Health Effects of Air Pollutants 
Pollutants 
Sources 
Primary Effects 
Ozone (O3) 
Atmospheric reaction of organic gases 
with nitrogen oxides in sunlight 
• 
Aggravation of respiratory and 
cardiovascular diseases 
• 
Irritation of eyes 
• 
Cardiopulmonary function impairment 
Nitrogen 
Dioxide (NO2) 
Motor vehicle exhaust, high 
temperature stationary combustion, 
atmospheric reactions 
• 
Aggravation of respiratory illness 
• 
Reduced visibility 
Fine 
Particulate 
Matter (PM2.5) 
and Coarse 
Particulate 
Matter (PM10) 
Stationary combustion of solid fuels, 
construction activities, industrial 
processes, atmospheric chemical 
reactions 
• 
Reduced lung function, especially in 
children 
• 
Aggravation of respiratory and 
cardiorespiratory diseases 
• 
Increased cough and chest discomfort 
• 
Reduced visibility 
Toxic Air 
Contaminants 
(TACs) 
Cars and trucks, especially diesel-
fueled; industrial sources, such as 
chrome platers; dry cleaners and service 
stations; building materials and 
products 
• 
Cancer 
• 
Chronic eye, lung, or skin irritation 
• 
Neurological and reproductive 
disorders 
 
High O3 levels are caused by the cumulative emissions of reactive organic gases (ROG) and NOX. 
These precursor pollutants react under certain meteorological conditions to form high O3 levels. 
Controlling the emissions of these precursor pollutants is the focus of the Bay Area’s attempts to 
 
14 The area has attained both state and federal ambient air quality standards for CO. The project does not include 
substantial new emissions of sulfur dioxide or lead. These criteria pollutants are not discussed further. 
230 of 1252

--- page 231 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
36 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
reduce O3 levels. The highest O3 levels in the Bay Area occur in the eastern and southern inland 
valleys that are downwind of air pollutant sources.  
 
PM is a problematic air pollutant of the Bay Area. PM is assessed and measured in terms of 
respirable particulate matter or particles that have a diameter of 10 micrometers or less (PM10) and 
fine particulate matter where particles have a diameter of 2.5 micrometers or less (PM2.5). Elevated 
concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 are the result of both region-wide emissions and localized 
emissions.  
 
Toxic Air Contaminants 
TACs are a broad class of compounds known to have health effects. They include but are not limited 
to criteria pollutants. TACs are found in ambient air, especially in urban areas, and are caused by 
industry, agriculture, diesel fuel combustion, and commercial operations (e.g., dry cleaners). TACs 
are typically found in low concentrations, even near their source (e.g., diesel particulate matter 
[DPM] near a freeway). 
 
Diesel exhaust is the predominant TAC in urban air and is estimated to represent about three-quarters 
of the cancer risk from TACs. Diesel exhaust is a complex mixture of gases, vapors, and fine 
particles. Medium- and heavy-duty diesel trucks represent the bulk of DPM emissions from 
California highways. The majority of DPM is small enough to be inhaled into the lungs. Most 
inhaled particles are subsequently exhaled, but some deposit on the lung surface or are deposited in 
the deepest regions of the lungs (most susceptible to injury).15 Chemicals in diesel exhaust, such as 
benzene and formaldehyde, have been previously identified as TACs by the California Air Resources 
Board (CARB). 
 
Sensitive Receptors 
Some groups of people are more affected by air pollution than others. CARB has identified the 
following persons who are most likely to be affected by air pollution: children under 16, the elderly 
over 65, athletes, and people with cardiovascular and chronic respiratory diseases. These groups are 
classified as sensitive receptors. Locations that may contain a high concentration of these sensitive 
population groups include residential areas, hospitals, daycare facilities, elder care facilities, and 
elementary schools. 
 
 
Regulatory Framework  
Federal and State 
Clean Air Act 
At the federal level, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is responsible for 
overseeing implementation of the Clean Air Act and its subsequent amendments. The federal Clean 
Air Act requires the EPA to set national ambient air quality standards for the six common criteria 
pollutants (discussed previously), including PM, O3, CO, SOx, NOx, and lead. 
 
 
15 California Air Resources Board. “Overview: Diesel Exhaust and Health.” Accessed July 18, 2022. 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/resources/overview-diesel-exhaust-and-health. 
231 of 1252

--- page 232 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
37 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
CARB is the state agency that regulates mobile sources throughout the state and oversees 
implementation of the state air quality laws and regulations, including the California Clean Air Act. 
The EPA and the CARB have adopted ambient air quality standards establishing permissible levels 
of these pollutants to protect public health and the climate. Violations of ambient air quality 
standards are based on air pollutant monitoring data and are determined for each air pollutant. 
Attainment status for a pollutant means that a given air district meets the standard set by the EPA 
and/or CARB. 
 
Risk Reduction Plan  
To address the issue of diesel emissions in the state, CARB developed the Risk Reduction Plan to 
Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from Diesel-Fueled Engines and Vehicles. In addition to 
requiring more stringent emission standards for new on-road and off-road mobile sources and 
stationary diesel-fueled engines to reduce particulate matter emissions by 90 percent, the plan 
involves application of emission control strategies to existing diesel vehicles and equipment to 
reduce DPM (in additional to other pollutants). Implementation of this plan, in conjunction with 
stringent federal and CARB-adopted emission limits for diesel fueled vehicles and equipment 
(including off-road equipment), will significantly reduce emissions of DPM and NOX. 
 
Regional 
2017 Clean Air Plan 
The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) is the agency primarily responsible for 
assuring that the federal and state ambient air quality standards are maintained in the San Francisco 
Bay Area. Regional air quality management districts, such as BAAQMD, must prepare air quality 
plans specifying how state and federal air quality standards will be met. BAAQMD’s most recently 
adopted plan is the Bay Area 2017 Clean Air Plan (2017 CAP). The 2017 CAP focuses on two 
related BAAQMD goals: protecting public health and protecting the climate. To protect public 
health, the 2017 CAP describes how BAAQMD will continue its progress toward attaining state and 
federal air quality standards and eliminating health risk disparities from exposure to air pollution 
among Bay Area communities. To protect the climate, the 2017 CAP includes control measures 
designed to reduce emissions of methane and other super-greenhouse gases (GHGs) that are potent 
climate pollutants in the near-term, and to decrease emissions of carbon dioxide by reducing fossil 
fuel combustion.16 
 
CEQA Air Quality Guidelines 
The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines are intended to serve as a guide for those who prepare 
or evaluate air quality impact analyses for projects and plans in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
Jurisdictions in the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin utilize the thresholds and methodology for 
assessing air quality impacts developed by BAAQMD within their CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. 
The guidelines include information on legal requirements, BAAQMD rules, methods of analyzing 
impacts, and recommended mitigation measures.  
 
 
16 BAAQMD. Final 2017 Clean Air Plan. April 19, 2017. http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans-and-climate/air-quality-
plans/current-plans. 
232 of 1252

--- page 233 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
38 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating air quality impacts resulting from planned development within the 
City, including the following, which are applicable to the subject project:  
 
Policies  
Description 
LU 8.9 
The City shall mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities by the 
following measures: 
• 
Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest BAAQMD 
guidance, shall be applied to all construction activities within San Mateo. 
• 
Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with applicable 
BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos containing materials 
(ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and asbestos.  
• 
Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by BAAQMD 
as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time construction and 
distance from sensitive receptors). This may include the utilization of low emission 
construction equipment, restrictions on the length of time of use of certain heavy-
duty construction equipment, and utilization of methods to reduce emissions from 
construction equipment (alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel 
particulate filters). 
LU 8.11 
The City shall require that when new development that would be a source of TAC’s is 
proposed near residences or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be 
provided (based on recommendations and requirements of CARB and BAAQMD), or filters 
or other equipment/solutions shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable 
levels. 
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing sources of 
TAC’s, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on recommendations and 
requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or 
other equipment/solutions shall be provided to the source to reduce the potential exposure to 
acceptable levels. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The Bay Area is considered a non-attainment area for ground-level O3 and PM2.5 under both the 
federal Clean Air Act and state Clean Air Act. The area is also considered nonattainment for PM10 
under the state act, but not the federal act. The area has attained both state and federal ambient air 
quality standards for CO. As part of an effort to attain and maintain ambient air quality standards for 
O3 and PM10, BAAQMD has established thresholds of significance for these air pollutants and their 
precursors. These thresholds are for O3 precursor pollutants (ROG and NOX), PM10, and PM2.5, and 
apply to both construction period and operational period impacts. 
 
Sensitive receptors within the project area include residences immediately south of the project site, 
across E. 5th Avenue. There are additional residences at farther distances from the project site as well 
such as the Safari Kid preschool located at 521 E. 5th Avenue, approximately 810 feet northeast of 
the project site. These receptors, and others located farther from the project site, are shown in Figure 
4.3-1.  
 
 
233 of 1252

--- page 234 ---
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc., August 1, 2022.
6HUYLFH/D\HU&UHGLWV86*67RSR86*67KH1DWLRQDO0DS1DWLRQDO%RXQGDULHV'DWDVHW'(3(OHYDWLRQ3URJUDP*HRJUDSKLF1DPHV,QIRUPDWLRQ6\VWHP1DWLRQDO+\GURJUDSK\'DWDVHW
1DWLRQDO/DQG&RYHU'DWDEDVH1DWLRQDO6WUXFWXUHV'DWDVHWDQG1DWLRQDO7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ'DWDVHW86*6*OREDO(FRV\VWHPV86&HQVXV%XUHDX7,*(5/LQHGDWD86)65RDG'DWD1DWXUDO
(DUWK'DWD86'HSDUWPHQWRI6WDWH+XPDQLWDULDQ,QIRUPDWLRQ8QLWDQG12$$1DWLRQDO&HQWHUVIRU(QYLURQPHQWDO,QIRUPDWLRQ86&RDVWDO5HOLHI0RGHO'DWDUHIUHVKHG-XQH
/(*(1'
3URMHFW6LWH
(PHUJHQF\*HQHUDWRU
+DXO5RXWH
&KLOGFDUH
'D\FDUH
(OHPHQWDU\6FKRRO
2IIVLWH5HVLGHQWV
2QVLWH5HVLGHQWV
%XLOGLQJVLQFOXGHGIRUEXLOGLQJGRZQZDVK
	
1
0
1,000
1,500
250
2,000 Feet
LOCATIONS OF SENSITIVE RECEPTORS
FIGURE 4.3-1
234 of 1252

--- page 235 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
40 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.3.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Conflict with or obstruct 
implementation of the applicable air 
quality plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Result in a cumulatively considerable 
net increase of any criteria pollutant 
for which the project region is non-
attainment under an applicable federal 
or state ambient air quality standard? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Expose sensitive receptors to 
substantial pollutant concentrations?  
 
 
 
 
 
4) Result in other emissions (such as 
those leading to odors) adversely 
affecting a substantial number of 
people? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions The DASP IS/MND did not evaluate criteria air pollutants 
or TAC emissions associated with buildout of the DASP. However, these impacts were addressed in 
the 2030 General Plan EIR. The 2030 General Plan EIR determined that construction activities 
associated with buildout of the General Plan would result in a potentially significant impact that 
would be mitigated to a less than significant level through mitigation measures MM 1a through MM 
1c, which require implementation of BAAQD dust control measures for all construction projects 
within San Mateo and implementation of BAAQMD emission control measures as appropriate for 
the specifics of each individual project. Examples of BAAQMD emission control measures identified 
in MM 1c include utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the length of 
time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and utilization of methods to reduce 
emissions from construction equipment (alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel 
particulate filters). 
 
The 2030 General Plan EIR also determined that development under the General Plan would result in 
new sources of TACs, which would be a potentially significant impact. The 2030 General Plan EIR 
determined that with implementation of mitigation measure MM 4.5.3, which requires new 
developments near sensitive receptors to provide adequate buffer distances or provide equipment 
filters or other solutions to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels based on BAAQMD 
and CARB recommendations. Mitigation Measure MM 2 from the 2030 General Plan EIR would 
similarly require buffers or controls for new sources of odors near sensitive receptors.  
 
The 2030 General Plan EIR determined that CO emissions from increased traffic associated with 
General Plan buildout would be a less than significant impact.  
 
235 of 1252

--- page 236 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
41 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Thresholds of Significance 
As discussed in CEQA Guidelines Section 15064(b), the determination of whether a project may 
have a significant effect on the environment calls for judgment on the part of the lead agency and 
must be based to the extent possible on scientific and factual data. The City of San Mateo has 
considered the air quality thresholds updated by BAAQMD in May 2017 and regards these 
thresholds to be based on the best information available for the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin 
and conservative in terms of the assessment of health effects associated with TACs and PM2.5. The 
BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality thresholds used in this analysis are identified in Table 4.3-2 below. 
  
Table 4.3-2: BAAQMD Air Quality Significance Thresholds 
Pollutant 
Construction 
Thresholds 
Operation Thresholds 
Average Daily 
Emissions 
(pounds/day) 
Average Daily 
Emissions 
(pounds/day) 
Annual Average 
Emissions (tons/year) 
Criteria Air Pollutants 
ROG, NOx 
54 
54 
10 
PM10 
82 (exhaust) 
82 
15 
PM2.5 
54 (exhaust) 
54 
10 
CO 
Not Applicable 
9.0 ppm (eight-hour) or 20.0 ppm (one-hour) 
Fugitive Dust 
Dust Control 
Measures/Best 
Management Practices 
Not Applicable 
Health Risks and Hazards for New Sources (within a 1,000-foot Zone of Influence) 
Health Hazard 
Single Source 
Combined Cumulative Sources 
Excess Cancer Risk 
10 per one million 
100 per one million 
Hazard Index 
1.0 
10.0 
Incremental Annual PM2.5 
0.3 µg/m3 
0.8 μg/m3 (average) 
 
Impact AIR-1: 
The project would not conflict with or obstruct implementation of the 
applicable air quality plan. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Clean Air Plan 
The proposed project would not conflict with the 2017 Clean Air Plan (CAP) because construction 
and operational emissions (described further below) would be less than the BAAQMD CEQA Air 
Quality Guidelines impact thresholds shown in Table 4.3-2 above. Because the project would not 
exceed the BAAQMD impact thresholds, it would not result in significant impacts due to the 
generation of operational-related criteria air pollutants and/or precursors. Thus, the project is not 
236 of 1252

--- page 237 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
42 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
required to incorporate project-specific control measures listed in the 2017 CAP. Further, the project 
is considered urban infill and would be located near transit with regional connections. 
Implementation of the project would not prevent BAAQMD or partner agencies from continuing 
progress toward attaining State and federal air quality standards and eliminating health-risk 
disparities from exposure to air pollution among Bay Area communities, as described within the 
2017 CAP. For these reasons, the project would not result in a significant impact related to 
inconsistency with the 2017 CAP. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
Regional Criteria Pollutant Emissions  
The California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) Version 2020.4.0 was used to estimate 
emissions from construction and operation of the project. The project land use types and size, and 
anticipated construction schedule were input to CalEEMod. The model output from CalEEMod along 
with construction and operational inputs can be found in Appendix B.  
 
Construction Period Emissions 
CalEEMod provided annual emissions for construction including both on-site and off-site 
construction activities. On-site activities are primarily made up of construction equipment emissions, 
while off-site activity includes worker, hauling, and vendor traffic. The project construction schedule 
and equipment usage assume the project would take approximately 20 months, or 464 construction 
workdays, to construct. Average daily emissions were computed by dividing the total construction 
emissions by the number of construction days. Table 4.3-3 shows average daily construction 
emissions of ROG, NOX, PM10 exhaust, and PM2.5 exhaust during construction of the project. 
 
Table 4.3-3: Average Construction Emissions Per Day 
Year 
ROG 
NOX 
PM10 
(Exhaust) 
PM2.5 
(Exhaust) 
Lbs./day 
2023 
0.81 
8.9 
0.40 
0.31 
2024 
2.8 
6.7 
0.31 
0.23 
BAAQMD Thresholds* 
54 
54 
82 
54 
Exceeds Thresholds? 
No 
No 
No 
No 
*Thresholds are from BAAQMD Guidance for Assessing and Mitigating Air Quality Impacts. For PM, this 
excludes construction fugitive emissions. 
 
As shown in Table 4.3-3, above, project construction would not exceed BAAQMD’s thresholds of 
significance for construction criteria pollutant emissions. Therefore, project construction criteria 
pollutants emissions would be a less than significant impact. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
 
 
237 of 1252

--- page 238 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
43 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Operation Period Emissions 
The BAAQMD operational emissions screening size for mid-rise apartments is 494 dwelling units, 
for general office building is 346,000 square feet, and for retail (supermarket) is 42,000 square feet. 
The project consists of 10 dwelling units, 104,554 square feet of offices, and 17,658 square feet of 
retail use; therefore, the project is well below both operational criteria pollutant screening levels and 
the operational criteria pollutant emissions level is assumed to be less than significant. Additionally, 
the baseline emissions from the site’s current 60,965 square-foot commercial use would serve to 
reduce the net emissions of the project. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
Carbon Monoxide 
According to the 2017 BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, the Project would result in less-than-significant 
localized CO concentrations if it meets the following criteria: 
 
1. Is consistent with county and local congestion management plans, and 
2. Does not increase traffic volumes at affected intersections to more than 24,000 vehicles per 
hour. 
 
Based on the traffic volume data provided by the traffic analysis prepared for the project, (see 
Section 4.17 Transportation and Appendix L), the project would generate fewer vehicle trips per hour 
during morning and evening peak hours compared to the existing land uses on the project site. Thus, 
operational impacts from Project CO emissions would be less than significant. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact AIR-2: 
The project would not result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of 
any criteria pollutant for which the project region is non-attainment under an 
applicable federal or state ambient air quality standard. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Per the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines, air pollution by its nature is largely a cumulative 
impact. No single project is sufficient in size, by itself, to result in nonattainment of ambient air 
quality standards. If a project exceeds the identified significance thresholds, its emissions would be 
cumulatively considerable, resulting in significant adverse air quality impacts to the region’s existing 
air quality conditions. As discussed above, the proposed project is below the applicable screening 
levels, and would not result in any air pollutant emissions exceeding BAAQMD’s significance 
thresholds. As a result, the proposed project would not result in a cumulatively considerable net 
increase of any criteria pollutant for which the region is in non-attainment. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
 
238 of 1252

--- page 239 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
44 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact AIR-3: 
The project would not expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant 
concentrations. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Construction Dust 
Construction activities, particularly during demolition, site preparation, basement garage excavation 
and grading would temporarily generate fugitive dust in the form of PM10 and PM2.5. Sources of 
fugitive dust would include disturbed soils at the construction site and trucks carrying uncovered 
loads of soils. Unless properly controlled, vehicles leaving the site would deposit mud on local 
streets, which could be an additional source of airborne dust after it dries. As required by mitigation 
measure MM 1a of the General Plan EIR, all construction projects are required to implement 
BAAQMD’s dust control measures. The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines consider these 
impacts to be less than significant if best management practices are implemented to reduce these 
emissions. 
 
Standard Measures: The following standard measures reflect BAAQMD best management 
practices and would be implemented by the project to reduce potential impacts from fugitive dust. 
 
• 
All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and unpaved 
access roads) shall be watered two times per day.  
• 
Construction grading activities shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of 
the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. 
• 
All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material to and from the project site 
shall be covered in accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code. 
• 
All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using wet power 
vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is prohibited. 
• 
All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph). 
• 
All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as possible. 
Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil binders are 
used. 
• 
Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use or reducing 
the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California airborne toxics control 
measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage 
shall be provided for construction workers at all access points. 
• 
All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance with 
manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified mechanic and 
determined to be running in proper condition prior to operation. 
• 
Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the Lead 
Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take corrective action 
within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be visible to ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. 
 
239 of 1252

--- page 240 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
45 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Implementation of the standard conditions above would reduce fugitive dust particulates, reducing 
the project impacts to a less than significant level, consistent with the determination of the 2030 
General Plan EIR. [Same Impact as Approved Project(Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
Community Health Risk Impacts 
The project would introduce new sources of TACs during construction that would affect nearby 
sensitive receptors. Construction equipment and associated heavy-duty truck traffic generates diesel 
exhaust, which is a known TAC.  
 
Operational sources of TACs would include the proposed 500 kW, 755 hp emergency generator and 
project-generated vehicle traffic. The proposed emergency generator would operate on a diesel 
engine and would be periodically run for testing purposes and in the event of a power outage. 
BAAQMD allows emergency generators to run for up to a maximum of 50 hours of non-emergency 
operation during testing and maintenance. BAAQMD recommends analyzing TAC emissions from 
roadways with over 10,000 vehicles per day. As documented in the traffic analysis, Appendix L, the 
project is expected to result in a net reduction of approximately 3,600 daily vehicle trips compared to 
the existing lands uses on-site. Therefore, operational vehicle emissions were not included in this 
health risk assessment.  
 
Community risk impacts were addressed by predicting increased cancer risk, the increase in annual 
PM2.5 concentrations and computing the Hazard Index (HI) for non-cancer health risks. Sensitive 
receptors in the project vicinity include residences south of the project site, across E. 5th Avenue. 
There are additional residences at farther distances from the project sit as well as the Safari Kid 
preschool located at 521 E. 5th Avenue, approximately 810 feet northeast of the project site (see 
Figure 4.3-1). Table 4.3-4 shows the project’s community health risk impacts calculated at the 
locations of the maximally exposed individual student (daycare child, [MEIS]) and the maximally 
exposed individual resident (MEIR). The locations of the MEIS and MEIR are shown in Figure 
4.3-2.  
 
Table 4.3-4: Project Construction and Operational Community Health Risk 
Impacts 
Source Category 
MEIR* 
MEIS 
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer 
Risk (per 
million) 
Chronic 
HI 
Annual 
Average 
PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer 
Risk 
Chronic 
HI 
Annual 
Average 
PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
Off-road 
construction 
equipment and on-
road construction 
vehicles 
(unmitigated) 
43.15 
0.03 
0.05 
0.44 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Off-road 
construction 
6.71 
<0.01 
0.01 
0.07 
<0.01 
<0.01 
240 of 1252

--- page 241 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
46 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.3-4: Project Construction and Operational Community Health Risk 
Impacts 
Source Category 
MEIR* 
MEIS 
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer 
Risk (per 
million) 
Chronic 
HI 
Annual 
Average 
PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer 
Risk 
Chronic 
HI 
Annual 
Average 
PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
equipment and on-
road construction 
vehicles (mitigated) 
Emergency 
generator 
2.37 
<0.1 
<0.01 
0.01 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Significance 
Threshold 
10 
1 
0.3 
10 
1 
0.3 
Unmitigated Total 
46 
0.03 
0.05 
0.45 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Mitigated Total 
9.1 
<0.01 
0.01 
0.08 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Exceeds 
Thresholds? 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
*To give a conservative analysis, the MEIR was assumed to be a child (assumes a higher breathing rate and age-
sensitivity factor).  
 
As shown in Table 4.3-4, the cancer risk from project construction and operation at the MEIR 
receptor is calculated to be 46 cases in 1 million, which would exceed the BAAQMD’s threshold of 
10 in 1 million. The other community health risk impacts would be below BAAQMD’s thresholds. 
Mitigation Measure MM 4.5.3 from the 2030 General Plan EIR requires that new developments that 
propose a new source of TACs near sensitive receptors implement BAAQMD and CARB-
recommended buffer distances or equipment filters/solutions to reduce the potential exposure to 
acceptable levels. Mitigation Measure MM 1c under the 2030 General Plan EIR also requires the 
utilization of BAAQMD construction emission control measures that are appropriate for the specifics 
of the project.  
 
Mitigation Measure: The project will be required to implement the following mitigation measure to 
reduce cancer risk impacts at the off-site MEIR.  
 
MM AIR-3.1: 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a construction 
management plan to the Building Division that demonstrates that all cranes, 
forklifts, generator sets, and welders used in project construction shall be 
equipped with Tier 4 diesel engines or better (e.g., natural gas generators or 
electric welders).  
 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall also submit an 
emissions reduction plan to the Planning Division that details the equipment to be 
used during construction and be signed by a qualified air quality specialist, 
241 of 1252

--- page 242 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
47 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
verifying that the equipment included in the plan meets the standards set forth in 
this measure (i.e., Tier 4 or better).  
 
 
Alternatively, if use of Tier 4 equipment is not available, the applicant may 
propose use of equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission standards for Tier 3 
engines and include particulate matter emissions control equivalent to CARB 
Level 3 verifiable diesel emission control devices. Alternatively, the project may 
also use electrical or non-diesel fueled equipment. All construction vehicles shall 
be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust mufflers that meet State 
standards. 
 
The construction management plan and emissions reduction plan are subject to 
review and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. 
 
With implementation of MM AIR-3.1, the cancer risk per million associated with construction 
equipment and vehicle emissions would be reduced to 6.71 resulting in a total cancer risk of 9.1 
when combined with the emissions of the proposed emergency generator. Consistent with MM 1c 
and MM 4.5.3 of the General Plan EIR, MM AIR-3.1 would involve the use of engine filters on 
construction equipment to meet the appropriate CARB standards and reduce TAC emissions to a less 
than significant level. Therefore, with implementation of MM AIR-3.1, the project would have a less 
than significant community health risk impact. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Cumulative Community Health Risk Impacts 
Cumulative TAC impacts are analyzed by combining the community risk impacts of the project and 
nearby sources of TACs within 1,000 feet of the project site. TAC sources include rail lines, 
highways, busy surface streets (>10,000 average daily trips or ADT), and stationary sources 
identified by BAAQMD. There are no roadways with daily traffic between 10,000 and 30,000 
vehicles per day within 1,000 feet of the MEIRs so the impacts from non-major street, non-highway 
roadways were not calculated. The primary contributor to the cumulative PM2.5 concentration at the 
off-site MEIR is a lumber company with woodwork operation, located about 850 feet from the off-
site MEIR. The results of the cumulative community health risk assessment are summarized below in 
Table 4.3-5.  
 
 
 
 
242 of 1252

--- page 243 ---
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc., August 1, 2022.
6HUYLFH/D\HU&UHGLWV86*67RSR86*67KH1DWLRQDO0DS1DWLRQDO%RXQGDULHV'DWDVHW'(3(OHYDWLRQ3URJUDP*HRJUDSKLF1DPHV,QIRUPDWLRQ6\VWHP1DWLRQDO+\GURJUDSK\'DWDVHW
1DWLRQDO/DQG&RYHU'DWDEDVH1DWLRQDO6WUXFWXUHV'DWDVHWDQG1DWLRQDO7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ'DWDVHW86*6*OREDO(FRV\VWHPV86&HQVXV%XUHDX7,*(5/LQHGDWD86)65RDG'DWD1DWXUDO
(DUWK'DWD86'HSDUWPHQWRI6WDWH+XPDQLWDULDQ,QIRUPDWLRQ8QLWDQG12$$1DWLRQDO&HQWHUVIRU(QYLURQPHQWDO,QIRUPDWLRQ86&RDVWDO5HOLHI0RGHO'DWDUHIUHVKHG-XQH
	
1
/(*(1'
3URMHFW6LWH
2II6LWH'D\FDUH&KLOG
2Q6LWH5HVLGHQW
2II6LWH5HVLGHQW
0
500
750
125
1,000 Feet
LOCATIONS OF MEIS AND MEIR
FIGURE 4.3-2
243 of 1252

--- page 244 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
49 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
Table 4.3-5: Impacts from Combined Sources at Off-Site MEIR 
Source 
Cancer Risk (per 
million) 
Chronic HI 
Annual PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
Project Impacts 
Project 
Construction and 
Operation 
Unmitigated 
46 
0.03 
0.05 
Mitigated 
9.1 
0.03 
0.01 
Cumulative Sources 
Stationary Sources 
1.1 
<0.01 
1.1 
Highway 
6.7 
-- 
0.15 
Major Streets 
0.14 
-- 
<0.01 
Railways 
8.2 
-- 
0.02 
BAAQMD Cumulative Thresholds 
>100
>10.0
>0.8
Cumulative Total – Project 
Unmitigated 
62 
0.03 
1.4 
Exceeds Threshold? 
No 
No 
Yes 
Cumulative Total – Project Mitigated* 
25 
0.01 
1.3 
Exceeds Threshold? 
No 
No 
Yes 
*Project construction mitigation measures are described in MM AIR-3.1.
As previously stated, the primary contributor to the cumulative PM2.5 concentration is an off-site 
lumber company. This stationary source contributes approximately 1.1 μg/m3 (80 percent) of the 
cumulative PM2.5 concentration and exceeds the BAAQMD cumulative threshold of 0.8 μg/m3 as an 
individual contributor. If this stationary source were not operational, there would be no cumulative 
impact associated with the project and the rest of the cumulative sources. Further, the project’s 
contribution from construction activities would be temporary and are below the single source (project 
level) thresholds, as shown in Table 4.3-4. Therefore, the project would not result in a considerable 
contribution to a cumulatively significant health risk impact. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
Impact AIR-4: 
The project would not result in other emissions (such as those leading to 
odors) adversely affecting a substantial number of people. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
The project would generate localized emissions of diesel exhaust during construction equipment 
operation and truck activity. These emissions may be noticeable by adjacent receptors; however, the 
odors would be localized and temporary and would not substantially affect people off-site. The 
project does not propose any use that would be a significant source of odors. For these reasons, 
implementation of the proposed project would not result in significant long-term or short-term odor 
244 of 1252

--- page 245 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
50 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
impacts, affecting a substantial number of people. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
4.3.3   
Non-CEQA Effects 
Per California Building Industry Association v. Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 62 Cal. 
4th 369 (BIA v. BAAQMD), effects of the environment on the project are not considered CEQA 
impacts. Although it is not mandated by CEQA, additional analyses may be undertaken to disclose 
the impacts the existing environment may pose to future receptors at the site of a project, and 
jurisdictions may require this as a policy. The City of San Mateo’s General Plan Policy LU 8.11 
requires such additional analysis to determine if a project will expose future residents to harmful 
levels of TACs. The City of San Mateo relies on the BAAQMD threshold established for cumulative 
sources when determining a site’s acceptable exposure to TACs.  
 
The residential component of the project itself would be considered a sensitive receptor. There is a 
potential that future residents could be exposed to TAC emissions. Per BAAQMD guidance, all TAC 
sources within 1,000 feet of a proposed sensitive receptor need to be identified and analyzed. If 
emissions of TAC concentrations at a new sensitive receptor generated from all TAC sources in a 
1,000-foot radius result in the exceedance of an excess cancer risk level of more than 100 in one 
million, or a non-cancer HI greater than 10, the project would result in a significant impact. The 
BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines also consider exposure from all TAC sources in a 1,000-foot radius to 
annual PM2.5 concentrations that exceed 0.8 µg/m3 to be significant. 
 
A health risk assessment was completed to assess the impact that existing TAC sources would have 
on the new proposed sensitive receptors that the project would introduce. As described under Impact 
AIR-3, the primary contributor to the cumulative PM2.5 concentration in the project vicinity is a 
lumber company with woodwork operation. The health risk impacts to the proposed on-site residents 
are summarized in Table 4.3-6. The maximum cancer risks, PM2.5 concentration, and non-cancer 
health impacts (hazard index) do not exceed their respective BAAQMD significance thresholds. 
Therefore, the proposed project would be in compliance with General Plan Policy LU 8.11 by not 
exposing future receptors at the project site to harmful levels of TACs.  
 
Table 4.3-6: Health Risk Impacts to On-Site Receptors 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Chronic HI 
Annual PM2.5 
(μg/m3) 
Stationary Sources 
0.89 
<0.01 
0.02* 
Highway 
6.8 
-- 
0.15 
Major Streets 
0.14 
-- 
<0.01 
Railways 
9.3 
-- 
0.02 
Project Operation 
2.8 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Total 
20 
<0.01 
0.19 
BAAQMD Cumulative Thresholds 
>100 
>10.0 
>0.8 
Exceeds Thresholds? 
No 
No 
No 
245 of 1252

--- page 246 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
51 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
*Annual PM2.5 exposure would be lesser for on-site receptors than the off-site MEI (see Table 4.3-5) because the 
project site is farther away from the lumber mill that represents that largest stationary source of PM2.5 in the 
project vicinity.  
 
 
 
 
246 of 1252

--- page 247 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
52 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Tree Inventory, Assessment, and Protection Report 
prepared for the project by Monarch Consulting Arborists, dated July 2020. A copy of this report is 
included in Appendix C of this Addendum.  
4.4.1  
Environmental Setting 
Regulatory Framework 
Federal and State 
Endangered Species Act 
Individual plant and animal species listed as rare, threatened, or endangered under state and federal 
Endangered Species Acts are considered special-status species. Federal and state endangered species 
legislation has provided the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the California 
Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) with a mechanism for conserving and protecting plant and 
animal species of limited distribution and/or low or declining populations. Permits may be required 
from both the USFWS and CDFW if activities associated with a proposed project would result in the 
take of a species listed as threatened or endangered. To “take” a listed species, as defined by the State 
of California, is “to hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or kill, or attempt to hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or 
kill” these species. Take is more broadly defined by the federal Endangered Species Act to include 
harm of a listed species.  
In addition to species listed under state and federal Endangered Species Acts, Sections 15380(b) and 
(c) of the CEQA Guidelines provide that all potential rare or sensitive species, or habitats capable of
supporting rare species, must be considered as part of the environmental review process. These may
include plant species listed by the California Native Plant Society and CDFW-listed Species of
Special Concern.
Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
The federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) prohibits killing, capture, possession, or trade of 
migratory birds except in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior. 
Hunting and poaching are also prohibited. The taking and killing of birds resulting from an activity is 
not prohibited by the MBTA when the underlying purpose of that activity is not to take birds.17 
Nesting birds are considered special-status species and are protected by the USFWS. The CDFW also 
protects migratory and nesting birds under California Fish and Game Code Sections 3503, 3503.5, 
and 3800. The CDFW defines taking as causing abandonment and/or loss of reproductive efforts 
through disturbance.  
Sensitive Habitat Regulations 
Wetland and riparian habitats are considered sensitive habitats under CEQA. They are also afforded 
protection under applicable federal, state, and local regulations, and are generally subject to 
17 United States Department of the Interior. “Memorandum M-37050. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act Does Not 
Prohibit Incidental Take.” Accessed April 7, 2022. https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/uploads/m-37050.pdf. 
247 of 1252

--- page 248 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
53 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
regulation by the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), Regional Water Quality Control 
Board (RWQCB), CDFW, and/or the USFWS under provisions of the federal Clean Water Act (e.g., 
Sections 303, 304, 404) and State of California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act.  
 
Fish and Game Code Section 1602 
Streambeds and banks, as well as associated riparian habitat, are regulated by the CDFW per Section 
1602 of the Fish and Game Code. Work within the bed or banks of a stream or the adjacent riparian 
habitat requires a Streambed Alteration Agreement from the CDFW.  
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating biological resource impacts resulting from planned development 
within the City, including the following, which are applicable to the subject project:  
 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 6.1 
Preserve heritage trees in accordance with the City’s Heritage Tree Ordinance. 
C/OS 6.4 
Retain the maximum feasible number of trees and preserve the character of stands or groves of trees in 
the design of new or modified projects. 
C/OS 6.6 
Require street tree planting as a condition of all new developments in accordance with the adopted 
Street Tree Master Plan, El Camino Real Master Plan, or Hillsdale Station Area Plan, as applicable.  
C/OS 6.7 
Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the City and especially in gateway areas such as 
Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue, El Camino Real (SR 82), Hillsdale Boulevard, and 42nd Avenue; 
encourage neighborhood participation in tree planting programs; explore non-City funded tree planting 
programs.  
 
City of San Mateo Protected Tree Ordinance 
The Protected Tree Ordinance (Chapter 13.40 of the Municipal Code) was adopted in May 2021 and 
replaces the prior Street Trees and Heritage Trees Ordinances. The Protected Tree Ordinance 
establishes regulations for the protection of trees within the City, particularly for Street Trees and 
Heritage Trees. Street Trees are defined as any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or 
stem capable of achieving ten feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or 
planted within public right of way or a designated planting easement. Heritage Trees are defined as 
any one of the following:  
 
• 
Any oak (Quercus spp.) tree with a trunk that has a diameter of ten inches or more (31.4 inches 
in circumference) measured at 54 inches above natural grade;  
• 
Any other tree with a trunk diameter of fifteen inches (47.1 inches in circumference) or more, 
measured at 54 inches above natural grade. 
• 
Trees with more than one stem (arising at or below 54 inches) shall be measured at the smallest 
diameter point below the main union of all stems unless the union occurs below grade, in which 
case each stem shall be measured as a stand-alone tree. For oak trees, if one stem is ten inches 
or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree. For all other species, if one 
stem is fifteen inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree. 
248 of 1252

--- page 249 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
54 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
• 
Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special 
historical value or of significant community benefit; or 
• 
A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival. 
 
The removal of either a Street Tree or Heritage Tree requires a permit from the Director of Parks and 
Recreation or his or her designee. Exceptions apply for Planning Applications subject to Chapter 27.71. 
Per SMMC 13.40.020#(b), “a person or entity who has received approval of a planning application [..], 
need only to obtain a site development permit pursuant to Chapter 23.40 from the Planning Division 
for the Removal and/or Major Pruning of Protected Trees.” 
 
City of San Mateo Site Development Code 
The City’s Site Development Code (Chapter 23.40 of the Municipal Code) establishes administrative 
procedures, regulations, required approvals, and performance standards for site grading, construction 
on slopes, and removal of major vegetation. The regulations apply to site development occurring 
within any of the following provisions:  
 
• 
Grading will exceed an area of 5,000 square feet and 5,000 cubic feet (185 cubic yards); 
• 
Grading will exceed a volume of 550 cubic yards; 
• 
Grading, regardless of quantity, where, in the opinion of the Building Official and/or City 
Engineer, includes special physical conditions which necessitate the application of this 
chapter to protect public health and safety;  
• 
Construction is proposed on a slope of 15 percent or greater; and/or within slope setbacks as 
defined in Municipal Code 23.40.030; and/or 
• 
Removal of major vegetation (trees over six inches in diameter) is proposed. 
 
Chapter 27.71 Landscape for Planning Applications 
Chapter 27.71 of the Municipal Code establishes requirements and guidelines for the appropriate 
design of landscaping and the preservation of existing trees in proposed developments. The intent of 
this chapter is to provision the use of landscaping to develop and maintain neighborhood character, 
soften architecture by use of plant materials where appropriate, buffer conflicting uses, screen 
parking areas, create comfortable outdoor living and walking spaces, mitigate air pollution and 
ensure that future developments are made water efficient. The landscaping plan for the proposed 
project would be required to meet the minimum standards set forth by Chapter 27.71.  
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Habitat 
The project site is located in a developed urban habitat. Urban habitats include street trees, 
landscaping, and lawns, and provide food and shelter for wildlife able to adapt to the modified 
environment. Since the original native vegetation of the area is generally not present, native species 
of wildlife have been supplanted by species that are more adapted to an urbanized area.  
 
Most of the vegetation in the vicinity of the site consists of landscape trees, shrubs, manicured lawns 
and non-native herbaceous species. Birds and mammals that could occur in the project area typically 
include introduced species adapted to human habitation, including the starling (Sturnus vulgaris), 
rock dove (Columba livia), house sparrow (Passer domesticus), house mouse (Mus musculus), and 
249 of 1252

--- page 250 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
55 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus). Native species (not endangered or listed on the special-status species 
list) that could occur in the area include the western toad (Bufo boreas), western fence lizard 
(Sceloporus occidentalis), Brewer’s blackbird (Euphagus cyanocephalus), house finch (Carpodacus 
mexicanus), western scrub jay (Aphelocoma californica), yellow-billed magpie (Pica nuttalli), and 
American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos).18  
 
The project site is almost entirely paved with asphalt/concrete and is occupied by a Draeger’s market. 
Vegetation on the site consists of shrubs and trees planted along the perimeter and in parking lot 
planters. There are no undisturbed areas or sensitive habitats on the site, and the site does not contain 
any streams, waterways, or wetlands.  
 
Special Status Species 
Special status plant and animal species are afforded special recognition and/or protection by federal, 
state, or local resource agencies or organizations. There are 21 special status plant and 21 special 
status animal species that have been identified in the California Natural Diversity Database 
(CNDDB) as occurring in or within one mile of the City.19 The project site does not contain 
designated critical habitat for any listed plant or animal species in the area because of the degraded 
nature of habitat on the site, the lack of associated native species or potential habitat, and the absence 
of specific microhabitat variables such as soil type, elevation, or hydrology. Therefore, special status 
species are unlikely to occur on the site. 
 
Trees 
The tree survey of the project site identified a total of 39 trees within the boundaries of the project 
site. Out of the 39 trees identified, 38 are considered Street Trees and none are considered Heritage 
Trees under the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance. The one tree that is not considered a street tree is an 
olive tree located within a planter bed next to the western corner of the existing parking lot. The 
species and quantities of the trees on-site, and their suitability for retention, are summarized below in 
Table 4.4-1. 
 
Table 4.4-1: Summary of Existing Trees 
Species 
Number of Trees 
Number of 
Heritage Trees 
Suitability for 
Retention 
Olive (Olea europaea) 
11 
0 
Fair to Good 
Hackberry (Celtis occidentalis) 
17 
0 
Very Poor to Fair 
Tulip poplar (Liriodendron 
tulipifera) 
5 
0 
Very Poor to Good 
Brisbane box (Lophostemon 
confertus) 
6 
0 
Fair to Good 
Total 
39 
0 
-- 
 
 
18 City of San Mateo. General Plan EIR. Page 4.9-9. July 2009.  
19 City of San Mateo General Plan EIR. Page 4.9-13. July 2009.  
250 of 1252

--- page 251 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
56 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
4.4.2  
Impact Discussion 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
1)
Have a substantial adverse effect,
either directly or through habitat
modifications, on any species
identified as a candidate, sensitive, or
special status species in local or
regional plans, policies, or regulations,
or by the California Department of
Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) or United
States Fish and Wildlife Service
(USFWS)?
2)
Have a substantial adverse effect on
any riparian habitat or other sensitive
natural community identified in local
or regional plans, policies, regulations,
or by the CDFW or USFWS?
3)
Have a substantial adverse effect on
state or federally protected wetlands
(including, but not limited to, marsh,
vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through
direct removal, filling, hydrological
interruption, or other means?
4)
Interfere substantially with the
movement of any native resident or
migratory fish or wildlife species or
with established native resident or
migratory wildlife corridors, impede
the use of native wildlife nursery
sites?
5)
Conflict with any local policies or
ordinances protecting biological
resources, such as a tree preservation
policy or ordinance?
6)
Conflict with the provisions of an
adopted Habitat Conservation Plan,
Natural Community Conservation
Plan, or other approved local,
regional, or state habitat conservation
plan?
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND identified two principal biological resources 
within the downtown area: Central Park and San Mateo Creek. The DASP IS/MND determined that 
preservation policies included in the DASP would mitigate any potential impacts to Central Park and 
251 of 1252

--- page 252 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
57 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
San Mateo Creek. The DASP IS/MND also stated that the City’s Heritage Tree Ordinance would 
mitigate impacts on downtown vegetation as redevelopment takes place. The 2030 General Plan EIR 
states that migratory birds may use natural habitats within the City and that buildout of the General 
Plan would have a potentially significant impact on migratory bird corridors. The 2030 General Plan 
EIR determined that implementation of the General Plan policies and mitigation measures included 
within the 2030 General Plan EIR would mitigate impacts to migratory birds to a less than significant 
level.  
 
Impact BIO-1: 
The project would not have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or 
through habitat modifications, on any species identified as a candidate, 
sensitive, or special status species in local or regional plans, policies, or 
regulations, or by the CDFW or USFWS. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
As previously discussed, the project site is unlikely to host any special status species due to a lack of 
suitable habitat and its location within the City’s urban Downtown Area. However, the existing trees 
could provide nesting habitat for special status bird species, including migratory birds and raptors. 
The project would remove the 39 existing trees on-site, therefore, construction of the project during 
the breeding season could result in the incidental loss of fertile eggs or nestlings, or otherwise lead to 
nest abandonment. Disturbance that causes abandonment and/or loss of reproductive effort is 
considered a taking by the CDFW. Any loss of fertile eggs, nesting raptors, or any activities resulting 
in nest abandonment would constitute an impact. Construction activities such as tree removal and site 
grading that disturb a nesting bird or raptor on-site or immediately adjacent to the construction zone 
would also constitute an impact. 
 
Mitigation Measures:  
 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development permit for 
tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall submit a phasing plan to 
the City’s Planning Division with a schedule of both on-site and off-site 
demolition and construction activities to review the activities that may occur 
during the nesting season subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. The nesting season for most birds, 
including most raptors in the San Francisco Bay area, extends from February 1 
through August 31 (inclusive). 
 
MM BIO-1.2: 
If any demolition and construction are scheduled during the nesting season, 
between February 1 and August 31 (inclusive), the applicant shall engage a 
qualified ornithologist to complete a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to 
ensure that no nests are disturbed during demolition or construction. During this 
survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats 
immediately adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This survey shall be 
completed no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of any construction or 
demolition activities during the early part of the breeding season (February 1 
through April 30 inclusive) and no more than 30 days prior to the initiation of 
these activities during the late part of the breeding season (May 1 through August 
31 inclusive).  
252 of 1252

--- page 253 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
58 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by 
construction (typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet for other species), the 
ornithologist, in consultation with the California Department of Fish and 
Wildlife, shall determine the extent of a construction free buffer zone to be 
established around the nest to ensure that bird nests shall not be disturbed during 
project construction. 
 
 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development permit for 
tree removal (whichever occurs first), the ornithologist shall submit a report 
indicating the results of the survey and any designated buffer zones to the City’s 
Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the Director of Community 
Development, or his/her designee should demolition and construction activities 
occur during the nesting season. 
 
The proposed project, with implementation of the above mitigation measures, would reduce impacts 
to nesting birds (if present) to a less than significant level. Although MM BIO 1.1 and MM BIO-1.2 
are not measures directly required by the General Plan EIR or DASP IS/MND, they are standard 
measures required for all construction projects to comply with federal and state law (MBTA and the 
CDFW Code). Therefore, implementation of MM BIO-1.1 and MM BIO-1.2 does not represent a 
substantial change in circumstances or increase in the severity of environmental effects compared to 
what was disclosed in the General Plan EIR or DASP IS/MND. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)]  
 
Impact BIO-2: 
The project would not have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat 
or other sensitive natural community identified in local or regional plans, 
policies, regulations or by the CDFW or USFWS. [Less Impact than 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
There is no riparian habitat on or in the vicinity of the project site. The project site is located in an 
urbanized area within downtown San Mateo. Therefore, the project would not significantly impact 
riparian habitat or any other sensitive natural community. The DASP IS/MND identified that 
buildout of the DASP would have a less than significant impact on riparian habitat and sensitive 
natural communities. Such habitats existing along San Mateo Creek but not within or adjacent to the 
project site. Therefore, the project would have less of an impact than the DASP. [Less Impact than 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact BIO-3: 
The project would not have a substantial adverse effect on state or federally 
protected wetlands through direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, 
or other means. [Less Impact than Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
There are no state or federally protected wetlands on or adjacent to the project site.20 Therefore, the 
project would not have a substantial adverse effect on wetlands. The DASP IS/MND determined that 
buildout of the DASP would have a less than significant impact on wetlands, such as San Mateo 
 
20 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. National Wetlands Inventory Surface Waters and Wetlands. Accessed April 8, 
2022. https://www.fws.gov/wetlands/data/mapper.html.  
253 of 1252

--- page 254 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
59 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Creek. The project would not impact any wetlands, resulting in a lesser impact than the DASP. [Less 
Impact than Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact BIO-4: 
The project would not interfere substantially with the movement of any native 
resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with established native 
resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native wildlife 
nursery sites. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
The project site is located within an urban area of San Mateo. The project site is not located within a 
known regional wildlife movement corridor or any other sensitive biological area. As previously 
stated, tree removal during development could disturb nesting habitat for migratory birds. With the 
implementation of the measures contained within MM-BIO-1.1 and MM BIO-1.2, impacts to 
migratory birds would be less than significant. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Impact BIO-5: 
The project would not conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting 
biological resources, such as a tree preservation policy or ordinance. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project proposes to remove 39 existing trees, including 38 Street Trees. None of the existing 
trees proposed for removal are considered Heritage Trees. Given that all the existing trees within the 
project boundaries are proposed for removal, no tree protection measures are required during project 
construction.  
 
Condition of Approval: The following condition of approval would be applied to the proposed 
project due to the removal of 38 existing Street Trees. 
 
Prior to issuance to of building permits for demolition, shoring, foundation, or site development 
(whichever occurs first), the applicant shall obtain a Site Development Permit for tree removal from 
the Planning Division for removal of existing trees with a diameter of six inches or larger at 54” 
above grade. The Site Development Permit for tree removal shall authorize the applicant to replace 
on-site and street trees equivalent or greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be 
removed by planting on-site and street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established 
in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of both. 
Adherence to the Condition of Approval described above would ensure that the project is in 
compliance with the City’s Protected Trees Ordinance and Site Development Code as it pertains to 
tree removal. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact BIO-6: 
The project would not conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat 
Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan, or other approved 
local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan. [Less Impact than 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The City of San Mateo has not established a habitat conservation plan or a natural community 
conservation plan, nor is it located within the boundaries of an approved local, regional, or state 
habitat conservation plan. The proposed project would, therefore, not be in conflict with the 
254 of 1252

--- page 255 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
60 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
implementation of any such plans. The DASP IS/MND determined that buildout of the DASP would 
result in less than significant impacts associated with habitat conservation plans. The project site is 
not within the boundaries of any such plan and thus, would result in a lesser impact than the DASP. 
[Less Impact than Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
 
 
255 of 1252

--- page 256 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
61 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Cultural Resources Review prepared for the project 
by Basin Research Associates, dated May 2022. A copy of this report is on file with the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
4.5.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
Federal and State 
National Historic Preservation Act 
Federal protection is legislated by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (NHPA) and the 
Archaeological Resource Protection Act of 1979. These laws maintain processes for determination of 
the effects on historical properties eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places 
(NRHP). Section 106 of the NHPA and related regulations (36 Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] 
Part 800) constitute the primary federal regulatory framework guiding cultural resources 
investigations and require consideration of effects on properties that are listed or eligible for listing in 
the NRHP. Impacts to properties listed in the NRHP must be evaluated under CEQA. 
 
California Register of Historical Resources 
The California Register of Historical Resources (CRHR) is administered by the State Office of 
Historic Preservation and encourages protection of resources of architectural, historical, 
archeological, and cultural significance. The CRHR identifies historic resources for state and local 
planning purposes and affords protections under CEQA. Under Public Resources Code Section 
5024.1€, a resource may be eligible for listing in the CRHR if it meets any of the NRHP criteria.21 
 
Historical resources eligible for listing in the CRHR must meet the significance criteria described 
previously and retain enough of their historic character or appearance to be recognizable as historical 
resources and to convey the reasons for their significance. A resource that has lost its historic 
character or appearance may still have sufficient integrity for the CRHR if it maintains the potential 
to yield significant scientific or historical information or specific data.  
 
The concept of integrity is essential to identifying the important physical characteristics of historical 
resources and, therefore, in evaluating adverse changes to them. Integrity is defined as “the 
authenticity of a historical resource’s physical identity evidenced by the survival of characteristics 
that existed during the resou’ce's period of significance.” The processes of determining integrity are 
similar for both the CRHR and NRHP and use the same seven variables or aspects to define integrity 
that are used to evaluate a resource's eligibility for listing. These seven characteristics include 1) 
location, 2) design, 3) setting, 4) materials, 5) workmanship, 6) feeling, and 7) association.  
 
 
21 California Office of Historic Preservation. “CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5(a)(3) and California Office of 
Historic Preservation Technical Assistance Series #6.” Accessed August 31, 2020. 
http://www.ohp.parks.ca.gov/pages/1069/files/technical%20assistance%20bulletin%206%202011%20update.pdf.  
256 of 1252

--- page 257 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
62 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
California Native American Historical, Cultural, and Sacred Sites Act  
The California Native American Historical, Cultural, and Sacred Sites Act applies to both state and 
private lands. The act requires that upon discovery of human remains, construction or excavation 
activity must cease and the county coroner be notified.  
 
Public Resources Code Sections 5097 and 5097.98 
Section 15064.5 of the CEQA Guidelines specifies procedures to be used in the event of an 
unexpected discovery of Native American human remains on non-federal land. These procedures are 
outlined in Public Resources Code Sections 5097 and 5097.98. These codes protect such remains 
from disturbance, vandalism, and inadvertent destruction, establish procedures to be implemented if 
Native American skeletal remains are discovered during construction of a project, and establish the 
Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) as the authority to resolve disputes regarding 
disposition of such remains. 
 
Pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 5097.98, in the event of human remains discovery, no 
further disturbance is allowed until the county coroner has made the necessary findings regarding the 
origin and disposition of the remains. If the remains are of a Native American, the county coroner 
must notify the NAHC. The NAHC then notifies those persons most likely to be related to the Native 
American remains. The code section also stipulates the procedures that the descendants may follow 
for treating or disposing of the remains and associated grave goods. 
 
Local 
City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan  
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating cultural resource impacts resulting from planned development 
within the City, including the following, which are applicable to the subject project:  
 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 7.1 
Preserve, to the maximum extent feasible, archaeological sites with significant cultural, historical, or 
sociological merit. 
C/OS 8.5 
Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City’s historic, architectural, and archaeological 
resources. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Archaeological Context 
A prehistoric and historic site records and literature search for the project site and a 1,000-foot radius 
was completed by staff of the California Historical Resources Information System (CHRIS), 
Northwest Information Center (NWIC), located at Sonoma State University. Three cultural resource 
reports were identified that included the project site and/or were adjacent to the project site. None of 
the three reports identified any archaeological resources on or adjacent to the project site. Twenty-
eight (28) additional studies on file with the CHRIS/NWIC have been completed within the project 
search radius of 1,000 feet. Eighty-eight (88) cultural resources have been recorded within the project 
257 of 1252

--- page 258 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
63 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
search radius. These resources primarily consist of historic district buildings but also include 
prehistoric resources.  
 
The project site is considered to be within a zone of medium sensitivity to archaeological resources 
due to its proximity to San Mateo Creek, which is located approximately 0.3-mile north of the project 
site at its nearest point. Several archaeological sites have been recorded along San Mateo Creek. 
Resources found at these sites have included various Native American artifacts. No known Native 
American villages or use areas have been identified in or adjacent to the project block.  
 
As discussed further in Section 4.9 Hazards and Hazardous Materials, the site has undergone 
substantial disturbance from installation of fuel tanks, removal of the tanks, remediation soils on-site, 
and construction of the basement level parking garage currently in use on approximately two-thirds 
of the site, which extends to 12 feet below grade. For these reasons, the site has been substantially 
disturbed and any resources in the shallow surface soils may have been disturbed by prior site 
activities. Nonetheless, the potential for cultural resources to be present on-site remains. 
 
Historical Context 
In 1776, Colonel Juan Bautista de Anza and Father Pedro Font led an expedition of colonists from 
Monterey to present-day San Francisco and camped at the banks of San Mateo Creek in the present-
day City of San Mateo. The Juan Batista de Anza National Historic Trail places their northward route 
along present-day El Camino Real. As mapped by the National Park Service (USNPS), the project is 
located along the trail corridor.  
 
No notable or significant historic resources or potential resources have been identified on the project 
site. The project site is not within the City’s Downtown Historic District. The Downtown Historic 
District boundary begins in the block directly north of the project site, approximately 250 feet away. 
The Downtown Historic District is an area with a high concentration of historic structures. These 
structures contribute to the identity and character of the Downtown Area and the City as a whole. 
The Zoning Code includes regulations pertaining to the preservation of these historic structures.  
 
The nearest historic building was identified at 505 S. B street, approximately 150 feet east of the 
project site, across the S. B Street/E. 5th Avenue intersection. The existing Draeger’s market on-site 
was constructed after 1996.22 Thus, the existing building is less than 50 years old and is not eligible 
for consideration as a historic resource.  
 
 
22 Geosync Consultants. Phase I Environmental Site Assessment: 200-222 East 4th Avenue. May 2, 2019.  
258 of 1252

--- page 259 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
64 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.5.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of a historical resource 
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 
15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of an archaeological resource 
as pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 
15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Disturb any human remains, including 
those interred outside of dedicated 
cemeteries? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND stated that the downtown area is of particular 
importance and interest with respect to historic structures. The DASP IS/MND determined that with 
implementation of preservation policies in the DASP and General Plan, and with project-level CEQA 
analysis, impacts to historic resources would be less than significant. The DASP IS/MND identified 
the northern third of the downtown area as an area of high sensitivity to archaeological resources, 
especially along San Mateo Creek. The DASP determined that compliance with General Plan 
policies, CEQA, and the State Public Resources Code would mitigate potential impacts to 
archaeological resources to a less than significant level. The General Plan EIR prescribes standard 
conditions of approval developed by the City regarding the discovery of archaeological resources 
during construction activities (i.e., halting construction activities, notifying the Chief of Planning, 
retaining a qualified archaeologist to evaluate the find, and contacting local Native American 
organizations) 
 
Impact CUL-1: 
The project would not cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of a historical resource pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5. [Less 
Impact than Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The existing building is not eligible for consideration as a historic resource, given that it is less than 
50 years old. There are no known historic resources on the project site. The USNPS maps the project 
block within the Juan Batista de Anza National Historic Trail, as described previously under Existing 
Conditions. However, the project site does not contain any Hispanic-era features or other 
distinguishing resources that enhance the historic value of the Historic Trail. Thus, the project would 
not adversely change the significance of the Historic Trail. As previously described, the nearest 
historic building is located approximately 150 feet east of the project site and the City’s Downtown 
Historic District is located approximately 250 feet north of the project site. The project would not 
result in a physical adverse change in any nearby historic buildings. As described further in Section 
4.13 Noise, construction vibration would not cause any damage to buildings within the project 
259 of 1252

--- page 260 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
65 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
vicinity. Therefore, the project would not cause an adverse change in the significance of a historical 
resource. The DASP IS/MND determined that buildout of the DASP would result in a less than 
significant impact on historical resources with mitigation. No mitigation is required for the proposed 
project, therefore, the project would have a lesser impact than the DASP. (Less than Significant 
Impact) 
Impact CUL-2: 
The project would not cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of an archaeological resource pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact with 
Mitigation Incorporated)] 
As previously described, there are no known archeological resources within or adjacent to the project 
site. The project site is considered to be within an area with medium sensitivity to archaeological 
resources. Archaeological resources have been discovered along San Mateo Creek and in other 
various locations in the project area. Thus, it is possible that buried archaeological resources could be 
encountered during earth-moving activities of project construction, particularly due to the excavation 
and grading activities associated with the construction of the underground garage. No subsurface 
testing is recommended given that the soils on-site have been previously disturbed by the existing 
development, including the existing below-grade garage that covers approximately two-thirds of the 
site. Development of the project could result in impacts to buried prehistoric or historical 
archaeological deposits. This would be a potentially significant impact.  
Mitigation Measures 
MM CUL-2.1: 
MM CUL-2.2: 
MM CUL-2.3: 
Prior to the issuance of any building permit involving excavation, shoring, 
foundation, or the superstructure, the project applicant shall hire a qualified 
Professional Archaeologist to develop a Worker’s Environmental Awareness 
Program (WEAP) to train the construction crew on the legal requirements for 
the treatment of cultural resources as well as procedures to follow in the event 
of a cultural resources discovery. This training program shall be given to the 
crew before ground disturbing work commences and shall include handouts 
to be given to new workers. 
The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require ground 
disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing buried cultural 
resources including prehistoric Native American burials. 
If any prehistoric or significant historic period cultural materials are exposed 
during construction grading and/or excavation whether on-site or off-site, the 
applicant shall halt all construction activities within 33 feet of the find or 
larger as determined by the cultural resources monitor, and the Professional 
Archaeologist shall provide identification, evaluation, and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo 
requirements. 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural resources 
exposed during construction constitute a historical resource and/or unique 
archaeological resource under CEQA, the applicant shall notify the 
260 of 1252

--- page 261 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
66 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, and provide 
avoidance, preservation in-place, recordation, additional archaeological 
testing and data recovery measures to reduce impacts to a less than significant 
level. The applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological Monitoring 
Plan (AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan (ATP) that includes data 
recovery if significant archaeological deposits are exposed during ground 
disturbing construction. The applicant shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to 
the City’s Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. Development and implementation 
of the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant cultural resources will be 
determined by the applicant in consultation with the California Office of 
Historic Preservation and the City of San Mateo. 
Implementation of the mitigation measures described above would ensure that the proposed project 
does not result in significant impacts to archaeological resources that may be encountered during 
construction. Mitigation Measures MM CUL-2.1 through 2.3 are consistent with standard measures 
required by the General Plan EIR. [Same Impact as Approved Project(Less Than Significant 
With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
Impact CUL-3: 
The project would not disturb any human remains, including those interred 
outside of dedicated cemeteries. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less 
than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
As described above, the site has no known archaeological resources, including human remains. In the 
unlikely event human remains are unearthed during project construction, damage to or destruction of 
significant archaeological remains would be a potentially significant impact. 
Mitigation Measures: The project will be required to implement the following mitigation measure 
to reduce potential impacts to buried human remains to a less than significant level: 
MM CUL-3.1: 
In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation and/or 
grading whether on-site or within the public right-of-way, the applicant shall 
halt all activity within a 50 feet of the discovery and 33 feet for every 
subsequent discovery, or an appropriate distance as determined by the 
cultural resource monitor, and notify the Community Development Director, 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also immediately notify San Mateo 
County Coroner to have a determination made as to whether the remains are 
of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the cause of death 
is required. Treatment of human remains and any associated or unassociated 
funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within the 
project site shall comply with applicable State laws (i.e., Native American 
burials, Chapter 1492, Section 7050.5 to the Health and Safety Code, 
Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the Public Resources Code). If the 
remains are determined to be Native American, the Coroner will notify the 
Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the 
NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the descendants will make 
recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in 
accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines.  
261 of 1252

--- page 262 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
67 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
With implementation of MM CUL-3.1, any potential impacts from incidental discoveries of human 
remains would be reduced to a less than significant level. MM CUL-3.1 is required for all 
construction projects pursuant to Section 7050.5(b) of the California Health and Safety Code and 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
262 of 1252

--- page 263 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
68 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
ENERGY 
4.6.1  
Environmental Setting 
Regulatory Framework 
Federal and State 
Energy Star and Fuel Efficiency 
At the federal level, energy standards set by the EPA apply to numerous consumer products and 
appliances (e.g., the EnergyStar™ program). The EPA also sets fuel efficiency standards for 
automobiles and other modes of transportation.  
Renewables Portfolio Standard Program 
In 2002, California established its Renewables Portfolio Standard Program, with the goal of 
increasing the percentage of renewable energy in the state’s electricity mix to 20 percent of retail 
sales by 2010. Governor Schwarzenegger issued Executive Order (EO) S-3-05, requiring statewide 
emissions reductions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. In 2008, EO S-14-08 was signed into 
law, requiring retail sellers of electricity serve 33 percent of their load with renewable energy by 
2020. In October 2015, Governor Brown signed SB 350 to codify California’s climate and clean 
energy goals. A key provision of SB 350 requires retail sellers and publicly owned utilities to procure 
50 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2030. SB 100, passed in 2018, requires 100 
percent of electricity in California to be provided by 100 percent renewable and carbon-free sources 
by 2045. 
Executive Order B-55-18 To Achieve Carbon Neutrality 
In September 2018, Governor Brown issued an executive order, EO-B-55-18 To Achieve Carbon 
Neutrality, setting a statewide goal “to achieve carbon neutrality as soon as possible, and no later 
than 2045, and achieve and maintain net negative emissions thereafter.” The executive order requires 
CARB to “ensure future Scoping Plans identify and recommend measures to achieve the carbon 
neutrality goal.” EO-B-55-18 supplements EO S-3-05 by requiring not only emissions reductions, but 
also that, by no later than 2045, the remaining emissions be offset by equivalent net removals of CO2 
from the atmosphere through sequestration.  
California Building Standards Code 
The Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential Buildings, as specified in Title 
24, Part 6 of the California Code of Regulations (Title 24), was established in 1978 in response to a 
legislative mandate to reduce California’s energy consumption. Title 24 is updated approximately 
every three years.23 Compliance with Title 24 is mandatory at the time new building permits are 
issued by city and county governments.24 
23 California Building Standards Commission. “California Building Standards Code.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.dgs.ca.gov/BSC/Codes#@ViewBag.JumpTo.  
24 California Energy Commission (CEC). “2019 Building Energy Efficiency Standards.” Accessed September 9, 
2022. https://www.energy.ca.gov/programs-and-topics/programs/building-energy-efficiency-standards/2019-
building-energy-efficiency. 
263 of 1252

--- page 264 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
69 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
California Green Building Standards Code 
CALGreen establishes mandatory green building standards for buildings in California. CALGreen 
was developed to reduce GHG emissions from buildings, promote environmentally responsible and 
healthier places to live and work, reduce energy and water consumption, and respond to state 
environmental directives. CALGreen covers five categories: planning and design, energy efficiency, 
water efficiency and conservation, material and resource efficiency, and indoor environmental 
quality. 
 
Advanced Clean Cars Program 
CARB adopted the Advanced Clean Cars program in 2012 in coordination with the EPA and 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The program combines the control of smog-
causing pollutants and GHG emissions into a single coordinated set of requirements for vehicle 
model years 2015 through 2025. The program promotes development of environmentally superior 
passenger cars and other vehicles, as well as saving the consumer money through fuel savings.25  
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
 
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoid or mitigating energy impacts resulting from planned development within the City, 
including the following: 
 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 13.6 
Establish management and operating practices that are environmentally, socially and economically 
sustainable.  
UD 2.14 
Require new development and building alterations to conform with the City’s Sustainable Initiative 
Plan and subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to sustainable 
building construction.  
 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan  
 
The City of San Mateo adopted a community-wide climate action plan (CAP) on April 6, 2015, 
which updates and consolidates the City’s existing Sustainable Initiatives Plan, GHG Emissions 
Reduction Plan, and Climate Action Plan for Municipal Operations and Facilities, based on the vision 
of San Mateo residents, businesses, and local government. The goal was to prepare a CAP that 
serves as an updated and Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy consistent with BAAQMD GHG Plan 
Level Guidance and CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5. The CAP was developed through a robust 
public process that engaged the San Mateo Sustainability Commission, staff, and the community. 
While the primary focus of the CAP is to achieve GHG reductions in alignment with regional, state 
and national targets, several reduction measures in the CAP have the added benefit of increasing 
 
25 California Air Resources Board. “The Advanced Clean Cars Program.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.arb.ca.gov/msprog/acc/acc.htm.  
264 of 1252

--- page 265 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
70 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
energy efficiency and establishing renewable energy sources in new development. Reduction 
measures that are applicable to the energy demand of the proposed project are listed below:  
 
• 
Reduction Measure RE 5: Renewable energy systems for new nonresidential buildings. 
• 
Reduction Measure AF 2: Provide EV charging stations with designated parking spaces 
capable of meeting the California Green Building Code Voluntary Standards. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Total energy usage in California was approximately 6,956.6 trillion British thermal units (Btu) in the 
year 2020, the most recent year for which this data was available.26 Out of the 50 states, California is 
ranked second in total energy consumption and 49th in energy consumption per capita. The 
breakdown by sector was approximately 21.8 percent (1,507.7 trillion Btu) for residential uses, 19.6 
percent (1,358.3 trillion Btu) for commercial uses, 24.6 percent (1,701.2 trillion Btu) for industrial 
uses, and 34 percent (2,355.5 trillion Btu) for transportation.27 This energy is primarily supplied in 
the form of natural gas, petroleum, nuclear electric power, and hydroelectric power. 
 
Electricity 
Electricity in San Mateo County in 2020 was consumed primarily by the non-residential sector (60 
percent), with the residential sector consuming 40 percent. In 2020, a total of approximately 4,167 
GWh of electricity was consumed in San Mateo County.28 
 
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is a public and locally controlled electricity provider for the County 
of San Mateo. Electricity provided by PCE is delivered through PG&E transmission lines. 
Commercial and residential customers in San Mateo County are included in the PCE service area and 
can choose to have 50 to 100 percent of their electricity supplied from carbon-free and renewable 
sources. Customers are automatically enrolled in the ECOplus plan, which generates its electricity 
from 100 percent carbon-free sources, with at least 50 percent from renewable sources. Customers 
have the option to enroll in the ECO100 plan, which generates its electricity from 100 percent 
carbon-free, renewable sources. 29 
 
The existing Draeger’s Market uses electricity on-site for lighting, air conditioning, appliances, and 
water usage. The existing Draeger’s Market uses approximately 2.4 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) of 
electricity per year, according to CalEEMod.30  
 
 
26 United States Energy Information Administration. “State Profile and Energy Estimates, 2020.” Accessed 
September 5, 2022. https://www.eia.gov/state/?sid=CA#tabs-2. 
27 Ibid.  
28 California Energy Commission. Energy Consumption Data Management System. “Electricity Consumption by 
County.” Accessed September 9, 2022. http://ecdms.energy.ca.gov/elecbycounty.aspx.  
29Peninsula Clean Energy. “Frequently Asked Questions.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/faq/.  
30 ECORP Consulting, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment – 222 East 4th Avenue Project. Attachment A: 
CalEEMod Output Files – Greenhouse Gas Emissions. September 2022. 
265 of 1252

--- page 266 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
71 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Natural Gas 
PG&E provides natural gas services within the City of San Mateo. In 2022, approximately 2.5 
percent of California’s natural gas supply came from in-state production, while the remaining supply 
was imported from other western states and Canada.31 In 2020 California used 2,144 trillion Btu of 
natural gas.32 In 2020, San Mateo County used less than one percent of the state’s total consumption 
of natural gas.33  
 
The existing Draeger’s Market uses approximately 2.4 million kilo-Btu of natural gas per year.34  
 
Fuel for Motor Vehicles 
In 2019, 15.4 billion gallons of gasoline were sold in California.35 The average fuel economy for 
light-duty vehicles (autos, pickups, vans, and sport utility vehicles) in the United States has steadily 
increased from about 13.1 miles per gallon (mpg) in the mid-1970s to 25.4 mpg in 2020.36 Federal 
fuel economy standards have changed substantially since the Energy Independence and Security Act 
was passed in 2007. That standard, which originally mandated a national fuel economy standard of 
35 miles per gallon by the year 2020, was updated in April 2022 to require all cars and light duty 
trucks achieve an overall industry average fuel economy of 49 mpg by model year 2026. 37,38 
 
Vehicles traveling to and from the existing Draeger’s Market generate approximately 7,448,877 
VMT per year.39 Assuming the EPA average fuel economy estimate of 22.0 miles per gallon this 
would equate to approximately 338,585 gallons of vehicle fuel consumed annually by vehicles 
traveling to and from the Draeger’s Market.  
 
 
31 California Gas and Electric Utilities. 2022 California Gas Report. Accessed September 9, 2022.  
https://www.socalgas.com/sites/default/files/Joint_Utility_Biennial_Comprehensive_California_Gas_Report_2022.p
df  
32 United States Energy Information Administration. “State Profile and Energy Estimates, 2020.” Accessed 
September 5, 2022. https://www.eia.gov/state/?sid=CA#tabs-2. 
33 California Energy Commission. “Natural Gas Consumption by County.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
http://ecdms.energy.ca.gov/gasbycounty.aspx.  
34 ECORP Consulting, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment – 222 East 4th Avenue Project. Attachment A: 
CalEEMod Output Files – Greenhouse Gas Emissions. September 2022. 
35 California Department of Tax and Fee Administration. “Net Taxable Gasoline Gallons.” Accessed September 9, 
2022. https://www.cdtfa.ca.gov/dataportal/dataset.htm?url=VehicleTaxableFuelDist.  
36 United States Environmental Protection Agency. “The 2021 EPA Automotive Trends Report: Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions, Fuel Economy, and Technology since 1975.” November 2021. 
https://nepis.epa.gov/Exe/ZyPDF.cgi?Dockey=P1010U68.pdf  
37 United States Department of Energy. Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007. Accessed September 9, 2022. 
http://www.afdc.energy.gov/laws/eisa.  
38 United States Department of Transportation. USDOT Announces New Vehicle Fuel Economy Standards for 
Model Year 2024-2026.” Accessed September 9, 2022. https://www.nhtsa.gov/press-releases/usdot-announces-new-
vehicle-fuel-economy-standards-model-year-2024-2026  
39 ECORP Consulting, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment – 222 East 4th Avenue Project. Attachment A: 
CalEEMod Output Files – Greenhouse Gas Emissions. September 2022. 
266 of 1252

--- page 267 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
72 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.6.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Result in a potentially significant 
environmental impact due to 
wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary 
consumption of energy, or wasteful 
use of energy resources, during 
project construction or operation? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Conflict with or obstruct a state or 
local plan for renewable energy or 
energy efficiency? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. Energy was not evaluated as an environmental resource in 
the DASP IS/MND, as the CEQA Appendix G checklist did not include an energy section at the time 
of preparation. The 2030 General Plan EIR included a discussion of energy consumption as part of 
chapter 4.13 Energy and Climate Change, evaluating the General Plan’s contribution to global 
climate change, and concluding that policies included in the General Plan would reduce the City’s 
contribution to global climate change and demand on available energy supplies to a less than 
cumulatively considerable contribution. The discussion below provides an analysis for the proposed 
mixed-use building. 
 
Impact EN-1: 
The project would not result in a potentially significant environmental impact 
due to wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary consumption of energy resources, 
during project construction or operation. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Construction  
The anticipated construction schedule assumes the project would be built over a period of 
approximately 20 months. The project would require demolition, excavation, site preparation, 
grading, trenching, building construction, paving, and the building interior. The overall construction 
schedule and process is designed to be efficient in order to avoid excess monetary costs. That is, 
equipment and fuel would not be used wastefully on the site because of the added expense associated 
with renting, maintaining, and fueling equipment. Energy is consumed during construction because 
the use of fuels and building materials are fundamental to construction of new buildings; however, 
energy would not be wasted or used inefficiently by project construction equipment. Therefore, 
construction of the proposed project would not consume energy in a manner that is wasteful, 
inefficient, or unnecessary.  
 
 
 
267 of 1252

--- page 268 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
73 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Operation 
Electricity and Natural Gas 
The proposed mixed-use building would use approximately 143 billion net new kilowatt-hours of 
electricity per year compared to existing conditions according to CalEEMod.40 The project would be 
100 percent electric and would not use any natural gas energy. 
 
The energy use increase is likely overstated, however, because the estimates for energy use do not 
take into account the efficiency measures which would be incorporated into the project. The project 
would be subject to energy conservation requirements in the CBC (Title 24, Part 6, of the California 
Code of Regulations, California’s Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential 
Buildings) and CALGreen (Title 24, Part 11 of the California Code of Regulations). Adherence to 
Title 24 and CBC requirements would ensure that the project would not result in wasteful and 
inefficient use of non-renewable resources due to building operation. 
 
Vehicle Fuel 
Vehicle fuel would be consumed via vehicles traveling to and from the proposed mixed-use building. 
With incorporation of the proposed TDM Plan (described further in Section 4.17 Transportation) 
which would achieve a 25 percent trip reduction as required by the Downtown Specific Plan, the 
project would generate approximately 3,082,883 VMT annually, a net decrease of approximately 
4,365,994 annual VMT compared to existing conditions.41 Assuming the EPA average fuel economy 
estimate of 22.0 miles per gallon this would equate to a net decrease of approximately 198,454 
gallons of vehicle fuel consumed annually by vehicles traveling to and from the project site. The 
TDM Plan prepared for the project would encourage the use of transit, bicycle, and pedestrian 
facilities over vehicles. As a result, energy in the form of gasoline consumption would not be used 
wastefully, inefficiently, or unnecessarily. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
Impact EN-2: 
The project would not conflict with or obstruct a state or local plan for 
renewable energy or energy efficiency. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The City of San Mateo CAP contains GHG reduction measures which focus on increasing renewable 
energy production and improving energy efficiency. As discussed further in Section 4.8 Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions, the project would be consistent with the City’s CAP. In accordance with Section 
23.24.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, the project would be required to provide solar panels as 
part of the project. Compliance with these measures, in addition to the City’s green building 
measures and Title 24 of the California Code, would ensure that the project provides opportunities 
for on-site renewable energy generation and has a high overall operational energy efficiency. 
Therefore, the project would not conflict with or obstruct a state or local plan for renewable energy 
or energy efficiency. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
40 ECORP Consulting, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment – 222 East 4th Avenue Project. Attachment A: 
CalEEMod Output Files – Greenhouse Gas Emissions. September 2022.  
41 Ibid.  
268 of 1252

--- page 269 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
74 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Geotechnical Investigation prepared for the project 
by Cornerstone Earth Group, dated December 2019. A copy of this report is included in Appendix D 
of this Addendum.  
 
4.7.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Act 
The Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Act was passed following the 1971 San Fernando 
earthquake. The act regulates development in California near known active faults due to hazards 
associated with surface fault ruptures. Alquist-Priolo maps are distributed to affected cities, counties, 
and state agencies for their use in planning and controlling new construction. Areas within an 
Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone require special studies to evaluate the potential for surface 
rupture to ensure that no structures intended for human occupancy are constructed across an active 
fault.  
 
Seismic Hazards Mapping Act  
The Seismic Hazards Mapping Act (SHMA) was passed in 1990 following the 1989 Loma Prieta 
earthquake. The SHMA directs the California Geological Survey (CGS) to identify and map areas 
prone to liquefaction, earthquake-induced landslides, and amplified ground shaking. CGS has 
completed seismic hazard mapping for the portions of California most susceptible to liquefaction, 
landslides, and ground shaking, including the central San Francisco Bay Area. The SHMA requires 
that agencies only approve projects in seismic hazard zones following site-specific geotechnical 
investigations to determine if the seismic hazard is present and identify measures to reduce 
earthquake-related hazards.  
 
California Building Standards Code 
The CBC prescribes standards for constructing safe buildings. The CBC contains provisions for 
earthquake safety based on factors including occupancy type, soil and rock profile, ground strength, 
and distance to seismic sources. The CBC requires that a site-specific geotechnical investigation 
report be prepared for most development projects to evaluate seismic and geologic conditions such as 
surface fault ruptures, ground shaking, liquefaction, differential settlement, lateral spreading, 
expansive soils, and slope stability. The CBC is updated every three years. 
 
California Division of Occupational Safety and Health Regulations 
Excavation, shoring, and trenching activities during construction are subject to occupational safety 
standards for stabilization by the California Department of Industrial Relations, Division of 
Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) under Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations and 
Excavation Rules. These regulations minimize the potential for instability and collapse that could 
injure construction workers on the site. 
269 of 1252

--- page 270 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
75 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Public Resources Code Section 5097.5 
Paleontological resources are the fossilized remains of organisms from prehistoric environments 
found in geologic strata. They range from mammoth and dinosaur bones to impressions of ancient 
animals and plants, trace remains, and microfossils. These materials are valued for the information 
they yield about the history of the earth and its past ecological settings. California Public Resources 
Code Section 5097.5 specifies that unauthorized removal of a paleontological resource is a 
misdemeanor. Under the CEQA Guidelines, a project would have a significant impact on 
paleontological resources if it would disturb or destroy a unique paleontological resource or site or 
unique geologic feature. 
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating geology and soils impacts resulting from planned development 
within the City, including the following: 
 
Policies  
Description 
S 1.1 
Require a site specific geotechnical engineering studies, subject to the review and approval of the City 
Engineer and Building Official, for development proposed on sites identified in Figure S-2 of the 
City’s General Plan as having a moderate or high potential for ground failure. Permit development in 
areas of potential geologic hazards only where it can be demonstrated that the project will not be 
endangered by, or contribute to, the hazardous condition on the site or on adjacent properties. 
S 1.3 
Require erosion control measures for all development sites where grading activities are occurring, 
including those having landslide deposits, past erosion problems, the potential for storm water quality 
impacts, or slopes of 15 percent or greater which are to be altered. Control measures shall retain 
natural topographic and physical features of the site if feasible. 
C/OS 3.2 
Regulate the location, density, and design of development throughout the City in order to preserve 
topographic forms and to minimize adverse impacts on vegetation, water, and wildlife resources. 
 
 
City of San Mateo Site Development Code 
The City’s Site Development Code (Chapter 23.40 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code) 
establishes administrative procedures, regulations, required approvals, and performance standards for 
site grading, construction on slopes, and removal of major vegetation. In general, a planning 
application and a subsequent site development permit are required for development where grading 
exceeds 5,000 square feet in area; grading exceeds a volume of 550 cubic yards; removal of major 
vegetation (trees over 6 inches in diameter) is proposed; and construction is proposed on a slope of 
15 percent or greater or within slope setbacks as defined in Municipal Code 23.40.030. The intent of 
the ordinance is to protect public and private lands from erosion and earth movement, minimize the 
risk of injury to persons and damage to property, and ensure that each development relates to 
adjacent lands to minimize physical problems. 
 
270 of 1252

--- page 271 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
76 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Existing Conditions 
Regional Geology 
The San Francisco Peninsula is a relatively narrow geologic formation at the north end of the Santa 
Cruz Mountains separating the Pacific Ocean from San Francisco Bay. This represents one mountain 
range in a series of northwesterly-aligned mountains forming the Coast Ranges geomorphic province 
of California that stretches from the Oregon border nearly to Point Conception. The San Andreas 
Fault is the dominant structure in the system, nearly spanning the length of California, and capable of 
producing the highest magnitude earthquakes. Many other subparallel or branch faults within the San 
Andreas system are equally active and nearly as capable of generating large earthquakes. The project 
site is located on the flatlands surrounding San Francisco Bay west of the present tidal flats. The site 
is mapped as coarse-grained alluvium and alluvial fan and fluvial deposits, underlain by sandstone 
with interbedded siltstone and shale.  
 
Subsurface Conditions 
Cornerstone Earth Group took soil samples on-site to observe the subsurface conditions. Soils 
encountered on-site generally consisted of undocumented fill over alluvial soil. The undocumented 
fill was encountered to a depth of five feet below ground surface (bgs) and consisted of sandy lean 
clay and clayey sand. The underlying alluvial soil was encountered to a depth of 60 feet bgs, the 
maximum depth explored, and consisted of very stiff to hard sandy lean clay with gravel, sandy lean 
clay, and lean clay with sand. Several prominent layers of medium dense to dense clayey sand with 
gravel and dense to very dense, poorly graded sand with gravel were encountered at depths of five to 
22 feet.  
 
One plasticity index test was performed on a representative sample of the foundation bearing soil. 
Test results were used to evaluate the expansion potential of the soils. The test results indicated that 
the soils have a low expansion potential to wetting and drying cycles. The medium dense sandy soil 
encountered above the design groundwater depth of 18 feet (see discussion below) was also 
evaluated for potential for seismic compaction. The results indicated that seismic compaction of the 
sandy soil could result in approximately one inch of settlement at the ground surface after strong 
seismic shaking.  
 
Groundwater 
Groundwater was encountered on-site at depths of 31 to 32 feet bgs. All measurements were taken at 
the time of drilling and may not represent the stabilized levels that can be higher than the initial 
levels encountered. Historic high groundwater at the site is mapped at a depth of 18 feet. 
Additionally, groundwater monitoring wells in the vicinity of the site (e.g., within approximately 600 
feet), indicate depths to groundwater to be about 17 to 21.5 feet bgs. Therefore, a design groundwater 
depth of 18 feet can be assumed. Fluctuations in groundwater levels occur due to many factors 
including seasonal fluctuation, underground drainage patterns, regional fluctuations, and other 
factors. 
 
 
271 of 1252

--- page 272 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
77 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Seismicity and Seismic Hazards 
Earthquakes and Fault Rupture 
The project site is located within the seismically active San Francisco Bay region. The faults in this 
region are capable of generating earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or higher.42 Major faults in the area 
include the San Andreas Fault, approximately 3.2 miles west of the site, the Monte Vista-Shannon 
Fault, approximately 9.1 miles southeast of the site, and the San Gregorio Fault, approximately 10.2 
miles west of the site. During an earthquake, very strong ground shaking could occur at the project 
site.  
 
The project site is not located within an Alquist-Priolo Special Studies Zone.43 Since no active faults 
are known to cross the project site, fault rupture is not anticipated to occur at the site.  
 
Liquefaction Potential 
The project site is not mapped within a liquefaction hazard zone44 and is within a zone mapped as 
having a very low to low susceptibility to liquefaction by the Association of Bay Area 
Governments.45 Cornerstone Earth Group screened the site for liquefaction by testing soils samples 
and found that the dense to very dense sandy layers encountered below the design groundwater depth 
of 18 feet are not susceptible to liquefaction.  
 
Lateral Spreading 
Lateral spreading is horizontal/lateral ground movement of relatively flat-lying soil deposits towards 
a free face such as an excavation, channel, or open body of water; typically, lateral spreading is 
associated with liquefaction of one or more subsurface layers near the bottom of the exposed slope. 
San Mateo Creek, the nearest creek to the project site, is approximately 0.3 miles north of the project 
site. Additionally, the potential for liquefaction at the site is negligible, as described above. 
Therefore, the potential for lateral spreading to occur and/or impact the proposed improvements at 
the site is also considered to be negligible. 
 
 
 
 
 
42 United State Geological Survey. “The San Andreas and Other Bay Area Faults”. Accessed October 18, 2022. 
https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/events/1906calif/virtualtour/bayarea.php#:~:text=The%20San%20Andreas
%20Fault%20and,Creek%2C%20and%20San%20Gregorio%20Faults.  
43 California Geological Survey. “Earthquake Zones of Required Investigation”. Accessed May 19, 2022. 
https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/EQZApp/app/. 
44 Ibid. 
45 ABAG. “Hazard Viewer”. Accessed May 19, 2022. 
https://mtc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=4a6f3f1259df42eab29b35dfcd086fc8  
272 of 1252

--- page 273 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
78 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.7.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Directly or indirectly cause potential 
substantial adverse effects, including the 
risk of loss, injury, or death involving: 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Rupture of a known earthquake 
fault, as delineated on the most 
recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake 
Fault Zoning Map issued by the 
State Geologist for the area or based 
on other substantial evidence of a 
known fault (refer to Division of 
Mines and Geology Special 
Publication 42)? 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Strong seismic ground shaking? 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Seismic-related ground failure, 
including liquefaction? 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Landslides? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Result in substantial soil erosion or the 
loss of topsoil? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that 
is unstable, or that will become unstable 
as a result of the project, and potentially 
result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral 
spreading, subsidence, liquefaction or 
collapse? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Be located on expansive soil, as defined 
in the current California Building Code, 
creating substantial direct or indirect 
risks to life or property?  
 
 
 
 
 
5) Have soils incapable of adequately 
supporting the use of septic tanks or 
alternative wastewater disposal systems 
where sewers are not available for the 
disposal of wastewater? 
 
 
 
 
 
6) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique 
paleontological resource or site or 
unique geological feature? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that geologic hazards associated 
with new development would be mitigated to a less than significant level by compliance with 
General Plan Policy S 1.1, which requires sites in areas of geologic hazards to acquire site specific 
273 of 1252

--- page 274 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
79 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
geotechnical and engineering studies subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer and 
Building Official.  
 
Impact GEO-1: 
The project would not directly or indirectly cause potential substantial adverse 
effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or death involving rupture of a 
known earthquake fault, as delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo 
Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the State Geologist for the area or 
based on other substantial evidence of a known fault; strong seismic ground 
shaking; seismic-related ground failure, including liquefaction; or landslides. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Fault Rupture 
The project site is not located within an Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone, making fault rupture 
at the site unlikely. While existing faults are located within 10 miles of the site, the proposed project 
is outside of the fault rupture zone, and significant impacts from fault ruptures are not anticipated to 
occur. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Seismic Ground Shaking 
The project site is located within the seismically active San Francisco Bay region. Faults in this 
region are capable of generating earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or higher. Major faults in the area 
include the San Andreas Fault, Monte Vista-Shannon Fault, and the San Gregorio Fault. During an 
earthquake, very strong ground shaking could occur at the project site which could damage buildings 
and other proposed structures and threaten residents and occupants of the proposed development. The 
proposed building would be designed and constructed in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s 
requirements and seismic design guidelines in the current California Building Code. Additionally, a 
site-specific geotechnical investigation has been prepared for the project; the report includes project 
design and construction recommendations to address seismic ground-shaking. With adherence to the 
California Building Code and the recommendations of the geotechnical report, the proposed project 
would not result in significant impacts related to seismic ground shaking. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Liquefaction 
The proposed project site is not located within a liquefaction hazard zone, according to maps 
prepared for the San Mateo Quadrangle by the CGS. The geotechnical investigation prepared for the 
project concluded that the soils on-site are not susceptible to liquefaction. Thus, the proposed project 
would not result in significant impacts related to liquefaction. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Lateral Spreading 
Lateral spreading is often associated with liquefaction. The project site is not susceptible to 
liquefaction. Additionally, there are no adjacent bodies of water, channels, or excavations in the 
vicinity of the site that would increase the potential of lateral spread occurrence. It is not anticipated 
that lateral spread or other seismic-induced hazards would substantially impact the proposed project 
or nearby uses. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
274 of 1252

--- page 275 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
80 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Landslides 
The topography of the project site is relatively flat, and there are no hillsides nearby. The project 
would not exacerbate any existing landslide risks and there are no risks of landslides impacting the 
project. Therefore, the project is not susceptible to future landslides, on or off the site. [Same Impact 
as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact GEO-2: 
The project would not result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Ground disturbance related to demolition, excavation, grading, and construction activities from the 
proposed project is expected, potentially resulting in an increased exposure of soil to wind and water 
erosion. Development on the project site could result in significant amounts of soil erosion if 
managed improperly. The City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code and Site Development Code outline 
procedures to be followed to prevent significant soil erosion during construction activities.  
 
Conditions of Approval: In accordance with the General Plan and the City’s Municipal Code, Site 
Development Code 23.40.040, the following conditions of approval would reduce potential impacts 
from erosion to a less than significant level.  
 
• 
For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the project applicant shall 
obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm Permit (General Construction 
Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) for stormwater 
discharges associated with construction activity. To obtain coverage, the project applicant 
shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources Control Board to obtain 
coverage under the State General Construction Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must 
be provided to the Public Works Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention 
Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP 
Construction permit. 
 
The applicant must obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying 
the required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater 
pollution prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit 
application is made. 
 
The project would reduce post-construction soil erosion by managing stormwater runoff in 
compliance with the MRP. With adherence to the conditions of approval mentioned above, and the 
policies and regulations outlined in Section 4.10, Hydrology and Water Quality, the project would 
not substantially increase soil erosion on-site or contribute to the loss of topsoil. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less Than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
275 of 1252

--- page 276 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
81 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact GEO-3: 
The project would not be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable, or 
that would become unstable as a result of the project, and potentially result in 
on- or off-site landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence, liquefaction, or 
collapse. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
As discussed under Impact GEO-1, the project would not be susceptible to landslides, lateral 
spreading, or liquefaction, and would not risk exacerbating any geologic or seismic hazards. The 
soils on-site do have the potential for up to approximately one inch of settlement at the ground 
surface after strong seismic shaking; however, based on the upper 25 feet of soil being removed for 
excavation of the basement levels, the remaining seismic sand settlement that could occur would be 
negligible. Additionally, the project would adhere to the recommendations of the geotechnical 
investigation regarding building and foundation design to reduce the potential for adverse effects 
related to soil instability to occur. Therefore, the project would not result in a significant impact 
related to unstable soils or geologic units. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)]  
 
Impact GEO-4: 
The project would not be located on expansive soil, as defined in the current 
California Building Code, creating substantial direct or indirect risks to life or 
property. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
A plasticity index test was performed on a soil sample collected on-site and it was determined that 
the soils on-site have a low expansion potential. Therefore, the project would not be located on 
expansive soil that would create substantial risks to life or property. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact GEO-5: 
The project would not have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use of 
septic tanks or alternative wastewater disposal systems where sewers are not 
available for the disposal of wastewater. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(No Impact)] 
 
The project site is located within an urbanized area of San Mateo where sewers are available to 
dispose of wastewater from the project site. The project would not involve the use of septic tanks or 
alternative wastewater disposal systems; therefore, no impacts related to septic systems would occur. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)]  
 
Impact GEO-6: 
The project would not directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological 
resource or site or unique geological feature. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
No unique geologic features or paleontological resources have been identified at the project site. The 
City of San Mateo General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) did not identify any known 
paleontological resources in the City of San Mateo. Given that the project would involve excavation 
for the proposed below-grade parking garage, it is possible, though unlikely, that the project would 
encounter previously undiscovered paleontological resources or unique geological features. The City 
276 of 1252

--- page 277 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
82 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
of San Mateo has developed conditions of project approval that address the potential for discovery of 
paleontological resources as a result of development in the City.  
 
Conditions of Approval: The following conditions of approval shall be adhered to by the project to 
reduce impacts to any paleontological resources inadvertently discovered at the project site:  
 
• 
In the event of the discovery of paleontological resources (fossils) on the project site or in the 
public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction activities within 50 feet of the 
discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified 
paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall 
evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written report documenting the find and 
recommending further courses of action, and submit a summary of findings to the Project 
Planner. Following City acceptance of the report and proposed recommendations, the 
applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing 
construction. 
 
Application of the above-listed conditions of approval would ensure that significant impacts to 
paleontological resources are reduced to a less than significant level. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less Than Significant Impact)] 
 
277 of 1252

--- page 278 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
83 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment prepared for 
the project by ECORP Consulting, Inc., dated September 2022 and a copy of the City’s Climate 
Action Plan Consistency Checklist completed by the project applicant. Copies of these reports are 
included in Appendix E and Appendix F of this Addendum, respectively.  
 
4.8.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Background Information 
Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere, GHGs, regulate the earth’s temperature. This phenomenon, 
known as the greenhouse effect, is responsible for maintaining a habitable climate. In GHG emission 
inventories, the weight of each gas is multiplied by its global warming potential (GWP) and is 
measured in units of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The most common GHGs are carbon dioxide (CO2) 
and water vapor but there are also several others, most importantly methane (CH4), nitrous oxide 
(N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). These 
are released into the earth’s atmosphere through a variety of natural processes and human activities. 
Sources of GHGs are generally as follows: 
 
• 
CO2 and N2O are byproducts of fossil fuel combustion. 
• 
N2O is associated with agricultural operations such as fertilization of crops. 
• 
CH4 is commonly created by off-gassing from agricultural practices (e.g., keeping livestock) 
and landfill operations. 
• 
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) were widely used as refrigerants, propellants, and cleaning 
solvents, but their production has been stopped by international treaty. 
• 
HFCs are now used as a substitute for CFCs in refrigeration and cooling. 
• 
PFCs and SF6 emissions are commonly created by industries such as aluminum production 
and semiconductor manufacturing. 
 
An expanding body of scientific research supports the theory that global climate change is currently 
causing changes in weather patterns, average sea level, ocean acidification, chemical reaction rates, 
and precipitation rates, and that it will increasingly do so in the future. The climate and several 
naturally occurring resources within California are adversely affected by the global warming trend. 
Increased precipitation and sea level rise will increase coastal flooding, saltwater intrusion, and 
degradation of wetlands. Mass migration and/or loss of plant and animal species could also occur. 
Potential effects of global climate change that could adversely affect human health include more 
extreme heat waves and heat-related stress; an increase in climate-sensitive diseases; more frequent 
and intense natural disasters such as flooding, hurricanes and drought; and increased levels of air 
pollution. 
 
 
 
278 of 1252

--- page 279 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
84 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Assembly Bill 32 
Under the California Global Warming Solutions Act, also known as AB 32, CARB established a 
statewide GHG emissions cap for 2020, adopted mandatory reporting rules for significant sources of 
GHGs, and adopted a comprehensive plan, known as the Climate Change Scoping Plan, identifying 
how emission reductions would be achieved from significant GHG sources.  
 
In 2016, SB 32 was signed into law, amending the California Global Warming Solution Act. SB 32, 
and accompanying Executive Order B-30-15, require CARB to ensure that statewide GHG emissions 
are reduced to 40 percent below the 1990 level by 2030. CARB updated its Climate Change Scoping 
Plan in December of 2017 to express the 2030 statewide target in terms of million metric tons of 
CO2e (MMTCO2e). Based on the emissions reductions directed by SB 32, the annual 2030 statewide 
target emissions level for California is 260 MMTCO2e.  
 
Senate Bill 375  
SB 375, known as the Sustainable Communities Strategy and Climate Protection Act, was signed 
into law in September 2008. SB 375 builds upon AB 32 by requiring CARB to develop regional 
GHG reduction targets for automobile and light truck sectors for 2020 and 2035. The per capita GHG 
emissions reduction targets for passenger vehicles in the San Francisco Bay Area include a seven 
percent reduction by 2020 and a 15 percent reduction by 2035.  
 
Consistent with the requirements of SB 375, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) 
partnered with the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG), BAAQMD, and the Bay 
Conservation and Development Commission to prepare the region’s Sustainable Communities 
Strategy (SCS) as part of the Regional Transportation Plan process. The SCS is referred to as Plan 
Bay Area 2050. Plan Bay Area 2050 establishes a course for reducing per capita GHG emissions 
through the promotion of compact, high-density, mixed-use neighborhoods near transit, particularly 
within identified Priority Development Areas (PDAs).  
 
Assembly Bill 1279 
AB 1279, also known as the California Climate Crisis Act, declares the policy of the state both to 
achieve net zero GHG emissions as soon as possible, but no later than 2045, and achieve and 
maintain net negative GHG emissions thereafter, and to ensure that by 2045, statewide anthropogenic 
GHG emissions are reduced to at least 85 percent below the 1990 levels. AB 1270 requires the State 
Air Resources Board to work with relevant state agencies to ensure that updates to the Climate 
Change Scoping Plan identify and recommend measures to achieve these policy goals and to identify 
and implement a variety of policies and strategies that enable carbon dioxide removal solutions and 
carbon capture, utilization, and storage technologies in California, as specified. AB 1279 requires the 
State Air Resources Board to submit an annual report, as specified. 
 
279 of 1252

--- page 280 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
85 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Regional and Local 
2017 Clean Air Plan 
To protect the climate, the 2017 CAP (prepared by BAAQMD) includes control measures designed 
to reduce emissions of methane and other super-GHGs that are potent climate pollutants in the near-
term, and to decrease emissions of carbon dioxide by reducing fossil fuel combustion.  
 
CEQA Air Quality Guidelines 
The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines are intended to serve as a guide for those who prepare 
or evaluate air quality impact analyses for projects and plans in the San Francisco Bay Area. The 
jurisdictions in the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin utilize the thresholds and methodology for 
assessing GHG impacts developed by BAAQMD within the CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. The 
guidelines include information on legal requirements, BAAQMD rules, methods of analyzing 
impacts, and recommended mitigation measures.  
 
City of San Mateo Sustainable Initiatives Plan 
The Sustainable Initiatives Plan (2007) addresses several areas of environmental responsibility for 
the City, including citywide sources of GHG emissions, impacts from new developments and 
construction, city planning, waste and resource management, and all modes of transportation. The 
plan also addresses ways to engage the public and businesses in creating solutions to the 
environmental challenges. The Sustainable Initiatives Plan contains two sets of actions in regard to 
climate change: a proactive approach, which reduces GHG emissions and therefore lessens the 
impacts on global warming, and the adaptive approach, which serves to ensure that the City is 
prepared for the inevitable change.  
 
City of San Mateo Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program 
The City prepared a Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program (2010) to summarize the City of 
San Mateo’s GHG emissions and the actions being taken to mitigate those emissions. The emissions 
reduction program seeks to meet the requirements of the BAAQMD’s Draft CEQA Guidelines and 
the corresponding criteria for a Qualified GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy as defined by the 
BAAQMD. The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Program calculates the GHG emissions reduction target 
and the impact of programs to achieve the target, consistent with state guidance.  
  
The program demonstrates the City’s ability to reduce its GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 or 
approximately 28 percent below “business-as-usual” (BAU) forecasts in 2020. Based on a 2005 
inventory prepared by the City, in order to achieve these emissions reduction targets, San Mateo 
would have to reduce its GHG emissions by 201,983 metric tons of CO2e by 2020. To remain on 
track to reach its 2050 target, the City would have to reduce its emissions by 458,560 metric tons of 
CO2e by 2030. This information was updated in the Climate Action Plan (CAP), as described below. 
 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan 
The City adopted an updated CAP in April 2020, which updates and consolidated the various City’s 
GHG reduction efforts based on the vision of San Mateo residents, businesses, and local government. 
280 of 1252

--- page 281 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
86 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
The CAP provides the framework for San Mateo to reduce its community-wide GHG emissions in a 
manner consistent with state reduction targets and goals for 2030 and 2050. 
 
A CAP is a comprehensive strategy for a community to reduce emissions of GHGs, which, according 
to scientific consensus, are primarily responsible for causing climate change. The CAP identifies a 
strategy, reduction measures, and implementation actions the City will use to achieve targets 
consistent with state recommendations of 4.3 metric tons of CO2e (MTCO2e) per person by 2030 and 
1.2 MTCO2e per person by 2050. The City CAP includes five key pieces: 
 
1. An inventory of the annual GHG emissions attributable to San Mateo based on the types of 
activities occurring within the community and guidance from various protocols and 
agencies.  
 
2. A forecast of what GHG emissions are likely to look like in 2030 and 2050 based on 
expected population and economic growth as predicted in the City’s General Plan; with the 
consideration of major CO2e emission reduction policies. 
 
3. A reduction target, which identifies a goal for reducing GHG emissions by 2030 and 2050. 
 
4. Reduction strategies, which describe the actions the community intends to take to achieve 
the reduction target. Each strategy identifies the amount of GHGs that will be reduced 
once the strategy is implemented. The CAP also estimates benefits of existing programs. 
 
5. An implementation and monitoring program to track progress toward the reduction target and 
the status of the reduction strategies. A CAP consistency checklist for future development 
projects is included in the implementation program. 
 
As part of the CAP, the City developed a CAP consistency checklist for land use projects. The 
checklist is a streamlined tool that identifies the CAP’s mandatory requirements and provides an 
opportunity for project applicants to demonstrate project consistency with GHG reduction measures 
and actions in the CAP. The checklist is also an opportunity to identify additional project 
characteristics that support the GHG reduction targets and programs in the CAP. The project applicant 
completed the CAP consistency checklist for the proposed project. A copy of this checklist is included 
in Appendix F. 
 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
Applicable General Plan policies related to greenhouse gasses include, but are not limited to, the 
following listed below. 
 
Policies  
Description 
UD 2.14 
Require new development and building alterations to conform with the City’s Sustainable Initiative 
Plan and subsequent Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to sustainable building 
construction. 
 
281 of 1252

--- page 282 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
87 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Existing Conditions 
Unlike emissions of criteria and toxic air pollutants, which have regional and local impacts, 
emissions of GHGs have a broader, global impact. Global warming is a process whereby GHGs 
accumulating in the upper atmosphere contribute to an increase in the temperature of the earth and 
changes in weather patterns.  
 
The existing Draeger’s Market on-site generate GHGs via energy used for building lighting, air 
conditioning, appliances, and water use. GHGs are also generated by existing vehicle traffic traveling 
to and from the project site.  
 
4.8.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Generate greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, either directly or indirectly, 
that may have a significant impact on the 
environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Conflict with an applicable plan, policy 
or regulation adopted for the purpose of 
reducing the emissions of GHGs? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. At the time the DASP IS/MND was prepared, no statewide 
thresholds for GHG emissions existed, each jurisdiction established its own thresholds of 
significance. GHG emissions were discussed in the air quality section of the DASP IS/MND. 
Estimated GHG emissions from DASP buildout were quantified and compared against CARB’s 2020 
GHG emissions limit for the whole of California. The DASP IS/MND also discussed City policies 
and plans that would reduce GHG emissions from new development and vehicle traffic. The DASP 
IS/MND determined that buildout of the DASP would have a less than significant impact.  
 
General Plan EIR Conclusions. The General Plan EIR included a discussion of GHG emissions in its 
energy and climate change section. Estimated GHG emissions from 2006 existing conditions and 
buildout of the General Plan were quantified and compared against the City’s reduction goals for 
2020 and 2050 (which were based on statewide emission reduction goals). The General Plan EIR 
also discussed the General Plan’s consistency with recommended GHG reduction measures 
published by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research (OPR). The General Plan EIR 
determined that with implementation of the General Plan policies, buildout of the General Plan 
would result in a less than cumulatively considerable contribution to the worldwide climate change 
impact due to GHG emissions.  
 
The GHG emissions section has since been added to the CEQA checklist, providing statewide 
guidance on the significance thresholds to be used in evaluating GHG emissions impacts. The 
282 of 1252

--- page 283 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
88 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
discussion below provides an analysis of the project’s GHG emissions using the most current 
thresholds of significance.  
 
 
Thresholds of Significance  
The BAAQMD’s CEQA Air Quality Guidelines do not use quantified thresholds for projects that are 
in a jurisdiction with a qualified GHG reductions plan (i.e., a Climate Action Plan). The City CAP is 
a qualified GHG Reduction Strategy. The 2020 City CAP is the most recent update after the 2015 CAP 
and is written to align with the goals of SB 32. The CAP addresses estimate emissions beyond 2020, 
as informed by the post-2020 GHG reduction targets of SB 32 and EO S-3-05. Therefore, project 
compliance with the CAP adequately establishes project compliance with statewide GHG reduction 
goals for the year 2030 associated with SB 32, and with statewide GHG reduction goals for the years 
beyond 2030. 
 
Impact GHG-1: 
The project would not generate GHG emissions, either directly or indirectly, 
that may have a significant impact on the environment. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
GHG emissions associated with development of the proposed project would occur over the short-
term from construction activities, consisting primarily of emissions from equipment exhaust and 
worker and vendor trips. There would also be long-term operational emissions associated with 
vehicular traffic within the project vicinity, energy and water usage, and solid waste disposal. 
Emissions for the proposed project are discussed below and were analyzed using the methodology 
recommended in the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. 
 
Construction Emissions 
Construction-related activities that would generate GHG emissions include worker commute trips, 
haul trucks carrying supplies and materials to and from the project site, and off-road construction 
equipment (e.g., dozers, loaders, excavators). Table 4.8-1 summarizes the project’s construction 
GHG emissions.  
 
Table 4.8-1: Construction-Related GHG Emissions 
Emissions Source 
CO2e (Metric Tons/Year) 
Construction Year 1 
348 
Construction Year 2 
623 
Construction Year 3 
71 
Total Construction Emissions 
1,042 
Source: CalEEMod version 2020.4.0. 
 
Neither the City nor BAAQMD have an adopted threshold of significance for construction-related 
GHG emissions, though BAAQMD recommends quantifying emissions and disclosing that GHG 
emissions would occur during construction. As previously discussed in the Energy section, the 
overall construction schedule and process is designed to be efficient in order to avoid excess 
283 of 1252

--- page 284 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
89 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
monetary costs. That is, equipment and fuel would not be used wastefully on the site because of the 
added expense associated with renting, maintaining, and fueling equipment. Additionally, equipment 
idling would be limited per the required BAAQMD construction BMPs as described in Section 4.3 
Air Quality.  
 
Operational Emissions  
The project would emit long-term operational GHGs through the use of energy on-site for building 
lighting, air conditioning, water use, and appliances. GHGs would also be emitted from vehicle 
traffic traveling to and from the project site. The project’s operational GHG emissions are 
summarized in Table 4.8-2, below.  
 
Table 4.8-2: Operational-Related GHG Emissions 
Emission Source 
CO2e (Metric Tons/Year) 
Proposed Project 
Area Source 
0 
Energy*  
0 
Mobile 
1,008 
Waste 
101 
Water 
24 
Total 
1,133 
Existing On-Site Land Uses 
Area Source 
0 
Energy*  
134 
Mobile 
2,385 
Waste 
173 
Water 
10 
Total 
2,702 
Net Total 
Area Source 
0 
Energy  
-134 
Mobile 
-1,377 
Waste 
-72 
Water 
+14 
Total 
-1,569 
Source: CalEEMod version 2020.4.0.  
284 of 1252

--- page 285 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
90 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.8-2: Operational-Related GHG Emissions 
Emission Source 
CO2e (Metric Tons/Year) 
Notes: Emission projections predominately based on CalEEMod model defaults for San Mateo County. 
Emissions projections account for baseline and project trip generation rates identified by Kittelson & Associates 
(2022). 
*Project energy use accounts for compliance with the City’s Reach Code, which prohibits the use of natural gas. 
Project electricity would be supplied by PCE from 100 percent carbon-free sources. Existing energy use accounts 
for the current use of natural gas appliances.  
 
 
As shown in Table 4.8-2, the project would result in a net decrease of approximately 1,569 MTCO2e 
per year as compared to existing conditions. Therefore, the project would not generate a substantial 
amount of GHG emissions. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact GHG-2: 
The project would not conflict with an applicable plan, policy, or regulation 
adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of GHGs. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
San Mateo Climate Action Plan 
A specific project proposal is considered consistent with the City CAP if it complies with the 
“required” GHG reduction measures in the adopted CAP. The required GHG reduction measures 
applicable to the proposed project, which the project would comply with, include the following: 
 
• 
Reduction Measure BE 1: All new development: The project does not have natural gas 
connections, and does not have any natural gas appliance or other equipment installed. The 
project does not have any natural gas connections and no natural gas appliances installed. 
The project would conform to the City’s Reach Code (Municipal Code Chapter 23.24), which 
also requires new mixed-use buildings to be all-electric (no natural gas infrastructure). 
• 
Reduction Measure RE 2: All new developments with residential units: The project includes 
an on-site renewable energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum requirements of the 
California State Building Code: The project is required, per California state law, to meet the 
minimum requirements of the 2019 California State Building Code for project approval. In 
addition, Section 23.24.030 of the City Municipal Code states “New residential buildings 
four stories or more shall provide a minimum of a three-kilowatt photovoltaic system”. The 
proposed building included in the project would be required to comply with this provision of 
the Municipal Code. As described in the Planning Application for the proposed project, the 
roof will contain 1,000 square feet of five-kilowatt solar panels. 
• 
Reduction Measure EE 3: All new developments with residential units: The project includes 
trees that provide shade to residences: Landscaping would be provided around the perimeter 
of the proposed building, in the community open space, along the third-floor terrace, and 
along portions of the perimeter of the rooftop. 
• 
Reduction Measure CF 1(a): All new development with dedicated off-street parking: The 
project includes parking spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired for EV chargers, 
consistent with state and any local regulations: Out of the 239 total proposed parking spaces, 
285 of 1252

--- page 286 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
91 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
approximately 36 spaces would include electric vehicle (EV) charging stations as currently 
shown by the project plans. The project will be required to provide proof of consistency with 
Reduction Measure CF 1(a) at the time of issuance of a building permit. 
• 
Reduction Measure ST 6: New developments of at least six multifamily units and/or 10,000 
square feet of nonresidential space- Implement TDM strategies to comply with the 
appropriate trip reduction target identified in applicable area plans and San Mateo Citywide 
TDM Plan: As part of the TDM Plan, the project is proposing bicycle storage rooms with 
capacity for 21 bikes and additional bike racks for 17 bikes. Additionally, the project site is 
located approximately 65 feet from a SamTrans bus stop located at the corner of South 
Ellsworth and East 4th Avenue. This accessibility to mass transit would result in fewer 
vehicle trips and VMT compared to the statewide average and encourage walking and non-
automotive forms of transportation, thus resulting in the reduction of transportation-related 
emissions. Further, the project is also located within easy access to numerous restaurants, 
markets, and other services in the vicinity of the project site. These services are conveniently 
located for future residents of the proposed project, which will further reduce the number of 
vehicle trips. Additionally, the project site would be located within an area surrounded by 
other off-site nonresidential and residential uses. The project includes bike storage, which 
would encourage residents to bike rather than drive, when feasible. Lastly it is noted, as 
shown in Table 4.8-2, there would be a net decrease in operational vehicle-related GHG 
emissions of 1,377 MTCO2e per year compared with the existing baseline. 
• 
Reduction Measure ST 7: All new development: Be located along El Camino Real, within 
one-half mile of any Caltrain station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development 
or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas: The project site would be located less than one-half 
mile (0.3 mile) from the nearest Caltrain station (the San Mateo Station), located at 385 First 
Avenue. 
• 
Reduction Measure SW 1: All developments with multifamily units or nonresidential space: 
provide an area of sufficient space to store and allow access to a compost bin; the project 
plans show access to composting. 
 
The project would comply with all applicable and feasible reduction measures included in the CAP. 
A copy of the City’s CAP Consistency Checklist completed by the project applicant is included in 
Appendix F of this Addendum.  
 
BAAQMD 2017 Clean Air Plan 
Transportation and Mobile Source Control Measures 
The BAAQMD identifies transportation and mobile source control measures as part of the Clean Air 
Plan to reduce emissions from these sources. The transportation control measures are designed to 
reduce emissions from motor vehicles by reducing vehicle trips and VMT in addition to vehicle 
idling and traffic congestion. The project is consistent with the Clean Air Plan’s transportation and 
mobile source control measures in that it would redevelop an urban infill site, is located in close 
proximity to high-quality transit (Caltrain and SamTrans), provide bike storage facilities, and is 
located near existing retail, shops, markets, offices, and other urban lands uses with convenient 
pedestrian access facilities.  
 
286 of 1252

--- page 287 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
92 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Land Use and Local Impact Measures 
The BAAQMD Clean Air Plan includes Land Use and Local Impact Measures to ensure that planned 
growth is focused in a way that protects the people and environment from exposure of emissions 
associated with stationary and mobile sources and to promote mixed-use, compact development to 
reduce motor vehicle travel. The Land Use and Local Impact Measures identified by the BAAQMD 
are not specifically applicable to the proposed project as they relate to actions the BAAQMD will 
take to reduce impacts from goods movement and health risks in affected communities at the plan 
level. However, the project would be in support of these measures given that it is a mixed-use 
development within an urban infill area surrounded by residential and commercial uses. The project 
would locate additional residential land uses in close proximity to existing offsite office, commercial, 
and residential uses. Therefore, the project would provide future project residents with the potential 
work opportunities and commercial service options within the site and in close proximity to the site. 
Additionally, the project would locate potential employment opportunities for residents already 
living in the vicinity. The location efficiency of the project site would result in synergistic benefits 
that would reduce vehicle trips and VMT compared to the statewide average and would result in 
corresponding reduction of transportation related GHG emissions. 
 
The project would increase housing density in the vicinity over current conditions. Increased density 
reduces emissions associated with transportation as it reduces the distance people travel for work or 
services and provides a foundation for the implementation of other strategies to reduce GHG 
emissions. 
 
Energy and Climate Control Measures 
The Clean Air Plan also includes Energy and Climate Control Measures, which are designed to 
reduce ambient concentrations of emissions of CO2. Implementation of these measures is intended to 
promote energy conservation and efficiency in buildings throughout the community, promote 
renewable forms of energy production, reduce the “urban heat island” effect by increasing 
reflectivity of roofs and parking lots, promote the planting of (low volatile organic compound-
emitting) trees to reduce biogenic emissions, lower air temperatures, provide shade, and absorb air 
pollutants. The proposed project would increase landscaping throughout the project site which would 
help reduce the urban heat-island effect. 
 
The project is consistent with the 2017 Clean Air Plan. The proposed project would conform to the 
project-applicable control measures in the Clean Air Plan and would not disrupt or hinder the 
implementation of any other control measures. 
 
ABAG Final Plan Bay Area 2050 
Plan Bay Area establishes GHG emissions goals for automobiles and light-duty trucks, a potent 
source of GHG emissions attributable to land use development. The project site is located in an area 
identified as the “San Mateo Downtown Priority Development Area” in Plan Bay Area 2050. 
Therefore, Plan Bay Area 2050 considers the project location to be included in an area near high-
quality transit and within a communities poised to accommodate additional growth, and therefore 
encourages urban growth in the project area. Furthermore, the project is proposed within a built 
environment (infill development). The project will increase density and land use diversity in the 
vicinity over current conditions. Increased density potentially reduces emissions associated with 
287 of 1252

--- page 288 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
93 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
transportation as it reduces the distance people travel for work or services and provides a foundation 
for the implementation of other strategies such as enhanced transit services. 
 
For these reasons, the project is consistent with Plan Bay Area. Based on the project’s proximity to 
public transportation, availability of bike storage space and proximity to retail stores, it can be 
assumed that regional mobile emissions will decrease in line with the goals of Plan Bay Area with 
implementation of the proposed project. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
288 of 1252

--- page 289 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
94 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment prepared for 
the project by Geosyntec Consultants, Inc.(May 2019),a Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report 
prepared by RMD Environmental Solutions(July 2021), a Response to City Questions letter also 
prepared by RMD Environmental Solutions (October 2022), and an Environmental Document 
Review letter prepared by Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. Copies of these reports are included in 
Appendix G through Appendix J of this Addendum, respectively.  
 
4.9.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
Overview 
The storage, use, generation, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials and waste are highly 
regulated under federal and state laws. In California, the EPA has granted most enforcement 
authority over federal hazardous materials regulations to the California Environmental Protection 
Agency (CalEPA). In turn, local agencies have been granted responsibility for implementation and 
enforcement of many hazardous materials regulations under the Certified Unified Program Agency 
(CUPA) program.  
 
Worker health and safety and public safety are key issues when dealing with hazardous materials. 
Proper handling and disposal of hazardous material is vital if it is disturbed during project 
construction. Cal/OSHA enforces state worker health and safety regulations related to construction 
activities. Regulations include exposure limits, requirements for protective clothing, and training 
requirements to prevent exposure to hazardous materials. Cal/OSHA also enforces occupational 
health and safety regulations specific to lead and asbestos investigations and abatement. 
 
Federal and State  
Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77 
Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 77 Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace (FAR Part 77) sets forth 
standards and review requirements for protecting the airspace for safe aircraft operation, particularly 
by restricting the height of potential structures and minimizing other potential hazards (such as 
reflective surfaces, flashing lights, and electronic interference) to aircraft in flight. These regulations 
require that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) be notified of certain proposed construction 
projects located within an extended zone defined by an imaginary slope radiating outward for several 
miles from an airport’s runways, or which would otherwise stand at least 200 feet in height above the 
ground.  
 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
 
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), 
commonly known as Superfund, was enacted by Congress on December 11, 1980. This law created a 
tax on the chemical and petroleum industries and provided broad federal authority to respond directly 
to releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that may endanger public health or the 
289 of 1252

--- page 290 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
95 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
environment. Over five years, $1.6 billion was collected and the tax went to a trust fund for cleaning 
up abandoned or uncontrolled hazardous waste sites. CERCLA accomplished the following 
objectives: 
 
• 
Established prohibitions and requirements concerning closed and abandoned hazardous waste 
sites; 
• 
Provided for liability of persons responsible for releases of hazardous waste at these sites; 
and 
• 
Established a trust fund to provide for cleanup when no responsible party could be identified. 
 
The law authorizes two kinds of response actions: 
 
• 
Short-term removals, where actions may be taken to address releases or threatened releases 
requiring prompt response; and 
• 
Long-term remedial response actions that permanently and significantly reduce the dangers 
associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances that are serious, but 
not immediately life-threatening. These actions can be completed only at sites listed on the 
EPA’s National Priorities List. 
 
CERCLA also enabled the revision of the National Contingency Plan (NCP). The NCP provided the 
guidelines and procedures needed to respond to releases and threatened releases of hazardous 
substances, pollutants, or contaminants. The NCP also established the National Priorities List. 
CERCLA was amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act on October 17, 
1986.46 
 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), enacted in 1976, is the principal federal law 
in the United States governing the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste. RCRA gives the EPA 
the authority to control hazardous waste from the "cradle to the grave." This includes the generation, 
transportation, treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous waste. RCRA also sets forth a 
framework for the management of non-hazardous solid wastes. 
 
The Federal Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA) are the 1984 amendments to RCRA 
that focused on waste minimization, phasing out land disposal of hazardous waste, and corrective 
action for releases. Some of the other mandates of this law include increased enforcement authority 
for the EPA, more stringent hazardous waste management standards, and a comprehensive 
underground storage tank program.47 
 
 
 
 
46 United States Environmental Protection Agency. “Superfund: CERCLA Overview.” Accessed April 11, 2022. 
https://www.epa.gov/superfund/superfund-cercla-overview.  
47 United States Environmental Protection Agency. “Summary of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.” 
Accessed April 11, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/laws-regulations/summary-resource-conservation-and-recovery-act.  
290 of 1252

--- page 291 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
96 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Government Code Section 65962.5  
Section 65962.5 of the Government Code requires CalEPA to develop and update a list of hazardous 
waste and substances sites, known as the Cortese List. The Cortese List is used by state and local 
agencies and developers to comply with CEQA requirements. The Cortese List includes hazardous 
substance release sites identified by the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) and State 
Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB).48  
 
Toxic Substances Control Act 
The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) of 1976 provides the EPA with authority to require 
reporting, record-keeping and testing requirements, and restrictions relating to chemical substances 
and/or mixtures. Certain substances are generally excluded from TSCA, including, among others, 
food, drugs, cosmetics, and pesticides. The TSCA addresses the production, importation, use, and 
disposal of specific chemicals including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), asbestos, radon, and lead-
based paint. 
 
California Accidental Release Prevention Program  
The California Accidental Release Prevention (CalARP) Program aims to prevent accidental releases 
of regulated hazardous materials that represent a potential hazard beyond the boundaries of a 
property. Facilities that are required to participate in the CalARP Program use or store specified 
quantities of toxic and flammable substances (hazardous materials) that can have off-site 
consequences if accidentally released. The San Mateo County Department of Environmental Health 
reviews CalARP risk management plans as the CUPA.  
 
Regional and Local 
City of San Mateo Emergency Operations Plan  
The City of San Mateo has prepared an emergency operations plan to ensure the most efficient use of 
resources to protect the community and its property before, during, and after a natural, technological, 
or man-made emergency. This plan confirms the City’s emergency organization, assigns tasks, 
presents policies and general procedures, and coordinates planning within various emergency 
management functions utilizing the Standardized Emergency Management System (SEMS) in 
alignment with the National Incident Management System. The objective of this plan is to integrate 
and coordinate all San Mateo facilities and personnel into an effective team that can prevent, protect, 
respond to, and recover from emergencies. The emergency operations plan is an extension of the 
State Emergency Plan and the San Mateo County Operational Area Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 California Environmental Protection Agency. “Cortese List Data Resources.” Accessed April 11, 2022. 
https://calepa.ca.gov/sitecleanup/corteselist/.  
291 of 1252

--- page 292 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
97 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
Applicable General Plan policies related to hazardous materials include, but are not limited to, the 
following listed below.  
 
Policies  
Description 
LU 4.33 
Manage toxic and hazardous wastes by following the goals and policies contained in the Safety 
Element 
S 4.1 
Maintain the City’s emergency readiness and response capabilities. 
S 5.2 
Adopt by reference all goals, policies, implementation measures, and supporting data contained in the 
San Mateo County Hazardous Waste Management Plan 
S 5.3 
Promote on-site treatment of hazardous wastes by waste generators to minimize the use of hazardous 
materials and the transfer of waste for off-site treatment. 
S 5.4 
Restrict the transportation of hazardous materials and waste to truck routes designated to Circulation 
Policy C-1.3, and limit such transportation to non-commute hours. 
S 5.10 
Require the clean-up of contaminated sites indicated on the Hazardous Waste and Substances Sites 
List published by the Department of Toxic Substance Control and/or the Health Department in 
conjunction with substantial site development or redevelopment, where feasible. 
 
City of San Mateo Fire Code 
The City Municipal Code has a Building and Construction Fire Code for all development and 
construction activities within the City of San Mateo. The Fire Code requires compliance with the 
California Fire Code and Uniform Fire Code and was adopted for the purpose of prescribing 
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Site History  
The project site was occupied as early as 1888 by a residential land use until 1920. A gas station and 
two auto repair/gas stations were present on-site by 1950 and by 1951, the Levy Brothers leased the 
site and developed a department store that operated until 1985. By 1985 all three of the gas 
stations/auto repair shops had been replaced by parking lots. The Levy Brothers department store 
building was vacant from 1985 until at least 1988. No changes were apparent at the site between 
1985 and 1995. In 1996, the Levy Brothers department store was demolished and construction began 
on the Draeger’s Market building.  
 
Underground storage tanks (USTs) associated with the former gas stations were removed from the 
project site in 1988. Soil sampling conducted as part of the tank removals identified a low 
concentration of total recoverable petroleum hydrocarbons (TRPH) at 60 milligrams per kilogram 
(mg/kg) in the area of the excavation. In 1993, one hydraulic lift associated with one of the auto 
repair shops was also removed. TPH concentrations were detected in the soils around the excavation 
and approximately 20 cubic yards were removed.  
 
TPH was detected in the on-site soils in 1994 and 1995 as well as detection of lead in one 
groundwater sample. During construction of the Draeger’s Market building, TPH-impacted soil was 
292 of 1252

--- page 293 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
98 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
detected during excavation and was off-hauled. Confirmation sampling did not identify the presence 
of TPH in soil that would warrant further investigation or remedial actions. In addition, no TPH or 
volatile organic compounds (VOC) were identified in groundwater on-site. In 1997, the County of 
San Mateo Health Service Agency (CSMHSA) issued a closure letter stating that the site 
investigation for the impacted surface soils from past operations at the site was complete.  
 
Database Records Search 
Geosyntec conducted a records review of federal, state, and local environmental databases for any 
environmental conditions with the potential to impact or have impacted the soil, soil vapor, and/or 
groundwater at the project site. The project site is listed on the State Water Board’s Geotracker 
database, a component of the Cortese List. This listing is associated with the site’s history, as 
previously described above. The project site was also found to be listed on the following additional 
databases: 
 
• 
California Environmental Reporting System Hazardous Waste Sites (CERS HAZ); 
• 
San Mateo Certified Unified Program Agency (SANMATEO CUPA); 
• 
Facility Registry Service/Facility Index (FINDS/FRS); 
• 
Hazardous Waste Manifest Data (HAZNET); 
• 
RCRA Non-Generators (RCRA NON GEN); 
• 
Delisted County Records (DELISTED COUNTY); and 
• 
Leaking Underground Fuel Tank Reports (LUST). 
 
The project site’s listings on the databases listed above are related to releases from the USTs 
historically present on-site, the excavation and off-site disposal of contaminated soils, and 
recordkeeping violations. Several facilities within a quarter mile of the project site were also found to 
be listed on various environment databases. These off-site listings are summarized below: 
 
• 
Wardrobe Cleaners/Park’s Wardrobe Cleaners, 333/335/344 E. 4th Avenue: 
Tetrachloroethene (PCE) was detected in groundwater at concentrations above environmental 
screening levels (ESLs) at this facility, located approximately 200 feet northeast of the 
project site. This facility is an open remediation site. This facility is located downgradient to 
the project site with respect to groundwater flow direction; however, there is potential that 
vapors from the VOCs associated with this facility may migrate and could affect the project 
site.  
• 
Blue Ribbon Cleaners, 37 E. 3rd Avenue and 22 2nd Avenue: This facility is located 
approximately 1,000 feet southwest of the project site and is listed in the Environmental Risk 
Information Services (ERIS) under the DRYCLEANERS database, but no additional 
information is provided. Based on the lack of documented spills and distance from the project 
site, this facility has low potential to have impacted the subsurface at the project site.  
• 
A-1 Cleaners/New A-1 Cleaners, 17 E. 4th Avenue: This facility is located approximately 965 
feet southwest of the project site. Detections of PCE and breakdown products have occurred 
downgradient from this facility, which was known to have used PCE in its dry cleaning 
operations from 1987 to 2008. CSMHSA requested voluntary soil and groundwater sampling 
293 of 1252

--- page 294 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
99 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
in the facility vicinity to determine if it has released PCE to soil and groundwater, however, it 
does not appear that the facility has prepared a work plan to conduct such sampling. Given 
the fact that this facility is located upgradient of the project site, it may impact the subsurface 
at the project site.  
• 
R NU IT Cleaners, 200 E. 2nd Avenue: This facility is located approximately 710 feet 
northwest of the project site. This facility’s cleanup status is listed as “Refer: Other Agency 
as of 7/29/1994” on the DTSC’s Envirostor database with no other available information. 
Based on the cross-gradient of this facility with respect to the groundwater flow direction, 
this facility is not considered a concern for the project site.  
• 
Sunrise Cleaners, 233 Baldwin Avenue: This facility is located approximately 1,600 feet 
northwest of the project site. Dry-cleaning operations at this facility reportedly used PCE as 
part of daily operations beginning in the late 1960s. No major violations or reports of releases 
or spills have been reported for this facility. According to the GeoTracker database, this 
facility is currently being remediated. Based on the cross-gradient groundwater flow 
direction, this facility is not considered concern for the project site.  
 
Subsurface Conditions 
Soil borings were completed in the existing underground parking garage in March 2021 by RMD 
Environmental Solutions. The garage floor was estimated to be approximately 12 feet below bgs and 
the soil borings were taken at depths varying between 14 and 43 feet below the floor of the existing 
garage. Groundwater samples were also taken during soil boring collection. TPH and various VOCs 
were detected in the soil samples, however, none of the concentrations exceeded Tier 1 ESLs, the 
San Francisco Bay RWQCB’s most stringent screening level to be protective of human health and 
the environment. Metals detected in the soil samples included arsenic, chromium, and vanadium. 
Arsenic and Vanadium were detected above the Tier 1 ESL; however, they were found to be in 
concentrations below the background levels for the project area. Thus, these metals are not 
considered a concern because they were found to be in smaller concentrations than what is typical for 
California soils. Soils throughout the State of California have naturally-occurring metals above the 
Tier 1 ESLs and thus, these regional background levels, as opposed to the Tier 1 ESLs, are applicable 
for these metals. Soluble threshold limit concentration and toxicity characteristic leaching procedure 
extractions were performed for the chromium detected in the soil samples. The results indicated a 
non-hazardous classification for soil disposal.  
 
TPH, benzene, and chloroform were the only constituents detected in the groundwater samples. TPH 
as diesel (TPHd) exceeded the Tier 1 ESL, which is based on odor/nuisance, in one sample. 
Chloroform exceeded the Tier 1 ESL, which is based on vapor intrusion, in one sample. Despite 
exceeding the Tier 1 ESLs, the concentrations of TPHd and chloroform on-site are not expected to 
require remediation action because benzene, naphthalene, and other VOCs were determined to be 
below Tier 1 ESLs or absent or from the project site. Additionally, according to RMD Environmental 
Solutions, the presence of chloroform on-site was found at relatively low concentrations and is likely 
attributed to potable water as a result of organic matter present in raw water supplies.  
 
294 of 1252

--- page 295 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
100 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.9.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Create a significant hazard to the public 
or the environment through the routine 
transport, use, or disposal of hazardous 
materials? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Create a significant hazard to the public 
or the environment through reasonably 
foreseeable upset and accident 
conditions involving the release of 
hazardous materials into the 
environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Emit hazardous emissions or handle 
hazardous or acutely hazardous 
materials, substances, or waste within 
one-quarter mile of an existing or 
proposed school? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Be located on a site which is included on 
a list of hazardous materials sites 
compiled pursuant to Government Code 
Section 65962.5 and, as a result, will it 
create a significant hazard to the public 
or the environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
5) For a project located within an airport 
land use plan or, where such a plan has 
not been adopted, within two miles of a 
public airport or public use airport, 
result in a safety hazard or excessive 
noise for people residing or working in 
the project area? 
 
 
 
 
 
6) Impair implementation of, or physically 
interfere with, an adopted emergency 
response plan or emergency evacuation 
plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
7) Expose people or structures, either 
directly or indirectly, to a significant risk 
of loss, injury or death involving 
wildland fires? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that 
buildout of the DASP would have no impact associated with hazards and hazardous materials 
because hazardous materials would be controlled by existing regulations such as the San Mateo 
County Hazardous Waste Management Plan and existing agencies such as the San Mateo County 
295 of 1252

--- page 296 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
101 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Environmental Health Department. The DASP IS/MND stated that cleanup of contaminated sites is 
required by law, enforced by the appropriate regulatory agencies, and is facilitated by General Plan 
policies.  
 
The 2030 General Plan EIR included a list of known Cortese List sites within the City. The project 
site was included in this list and was noted as having a status of “Completed – Case Closed”. The 
2030 General Plan EIR determined that impacts from buildout of the General Plan associated with 
hazards and hazardous materials would be less than significant given the existing regulations and the 
policies of the General Plan. Notably, Policy S 5.10 of the General Plan requires the clean-up of 
contaminated sites indicated on the Hazardous Waste and Substances Sites List published by the 
DTSC and/or Health Department in conjunction with substantial site development or redevelopment.  
 
Impact HAZ-1: 
The project would not create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment through the routine transport, use, or disposal of hazardous 
materials. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
Operation of the proposed project would likely include the on-site use and storage of cleaning 
supplies and maintenance chemicals in small quantities. The small quantities of cleaning supplies and 
maintenance chemicals used on-site would not post a risk to adjacent land uses as they would be 
below thresholds that require Fire Marshall review and approval. The project would not create a 
significant hazard to the public or environment due to the use, transport or storage of these 
chemicals. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact HAZ-2: 
The project would not create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment through reasonably foreseeable upset and accident conditions 
involving the release of hazardous materials into the environment. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Project Construction 
As discussed in Section 4.9.1.2 Existing Conditions, the project site has a history of subsurface 
contamination and subsequent remediation due to the gas stations/auto repair shops that previously 
occupied the site. Additionally, contamination from nearby former and current dry-cleaning facilities 
may affect the project site. The project site itself, following remediation and construction of the 
Draeger’s market, is considered a closed case by the CSMHSA and the March 2021 soil sampling 
on-site revealed that soils on-site are generally expected to meet acceptable criteria for non-
hazardous waste characterization. The project would not be required to remediate soils on-site given 
that 25,828 cubic yards of soil would be removed from the project site and the remaining soils would 
be capped by the proposed mixed-use building. Although concentrations of chloroform and TPHd 
were found over the Tier 1 ESLs at the project site, these would not pose a threat to the public or the 
environment. The purpose of the Tier 1 ESL is to provide a threshold that is protective of indoor air 
from vapor intrusion. While there is potential for these contaminants to vaporize into outdoor air 
during construction activities, inhalation of VOCs in outdoor air is considered negligible for on-site 
and off-site receptors because they would immediately disperse in the ambient air. The Tier 1 ESLs 
also pertain to the protection of potable water. Groundwater on-site would not be used for drinking 
water purposes and thus, the contaminants within the groundwater do not pose a risk. The project is 
296 of 1252

--- page 297 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
102 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
conditioned to require the preparation and implementation of a Construction Soil Management Plan 
(SMP), that would be reviewed and enforced by the CSMHSA, as is typical for projects located on 
sites with a history of contamination. Specifically, the condition would require the following 
measures.  
Conditions of Approval 
•
Prior to conducting earthwork activities at the project site, a Site Management Plan (SMP) 
and Health and Safety Plan (HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose of these documents will be 
to establish appropriate management practices for handling impacted soil, soil vapor and 
groundwater that may be encountered during construction activities. Based on the history of 
the project site, areas of impacted soil, soil vapor, and/or groundwater may be encountered 
during construction activities. The SMP shall be submitted to the County of San Mateo 
Health Service Agency (CSMHSA) for review, and CSMHSA approval shall be obtained 
prior to commencing earthwork activities at the project site. Proof of CSMHSA approval 
shall be provided to the City Community Development Department prior to issuance of an 
excavation permit. Prior to dewatering during project construction, a Discharge Plan shall be 
prepared and submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works for approval. The 
Discharge Plan shall include the carbon treatment of groundwater on-site to remediate the 
presence of TPHd prior to discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains. 
With implementation of the conditions of approval described above, the project would not create a 
significant hazard to the public or the environment during construction. Implementation of these 
conditions of approval would be consistent with the assumptions of the DASP IS/MND and the 
General Plan EIR. The project site was a known contaminated site as noted in the General Plan EIR. 
Cleanup of contaminated sites in coordination with a regulatory agency is required by General Plan 
Policy S 5.10. Therefore, implementation of these conditions with oversight provided by the 
CSMHSA would not represent a new impact or new mitigation than was previously analyzed by the 
DASP IS/MND and the General Plan EIR. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
Project Operation 
As discussed under Impact HAZ-1, operation of the proposed project would not involve the use, 
transport, or disposal of hazardous materials. Therefore, operation of the project would not result in a 
hazardous materials impact. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
Impact HAZ-3: 
The project would not emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or 
acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste within one-quarter mile of 
an existing or proposed school. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No 
Impact)] 
The nearest school to the project site is Sunnybrae Elementary School, located approximately 0.4 
miles southeast of the project site. There are no new schools proposed for construction within the 
297 of 1252

--- page 298 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
103 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
City.49 Therefore, the project would not emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or acutely 
hazardous materials, substances, or waste within one-quarter mile of an existing or proposed school. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact HAZ-4: 
The project would be located on a site which is included on a list of hazardous 
materials sites compiled pursuant to Government Code Section 65962.5 but 
would not create a significant hazard to the public or the environment. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project site is listed on the Geotracker database, a resource included on the Cortese List (the list 
compiled by CalEPA pursuant to Government Code Section 65962.5), as well as several other 
hazardous materials databases. However, the project site has been listed as a closed case since 1997 
because the CSMHSA determined that the subsurface conditions on-site did not require further 
investigation or remediation after contaminated soils onsite were excavated and off-hauled during the 
development of the existing Draeger’s Market. This listing is considered historical because there are 
no continuing or ongoing concerns in regard to the issues that gave rise to the initial Cortese listing 
and because regulatory closure was issued. The proposed mixed-use development would include 
excavation to a depth of approximately 25 feet, which is deeper than the existing single-level of 
below grade parking under the existing Draeger’s Market. However, as previously discussed under 
Impact HAZ-2, construction activities would not pose a risk to the public or the environment because 
any contaminants that vaporize on-site would be outside and would dissipate into the ambient air, 
and thus considered negligible. Additionally, implementation of the conditions of approval described 
under Impact HAZ-2 would ensure that any contaminated soils and groundwater encountered on-site 
are properly handled and disposed of as necessary. Therefore, while the project would be located on 
a site included on the Cortese List, the project would not create a significant hazard to the public or 
the environment with the implementation of the standard conditions noted under Impact HAZ-2. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
Impact HAZ-5: 
The project would not be located within an airport land use plan or, where 
such a plan has not been adopted, within two miles of a public airport or 
public use airport. The project would not result in a safety hazard or excessive 
noise for people residing or working in the project area. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is located approximately 4.3 miles southeast of the San Francisco International 
Airport, the nearest airport to the project site. It is located beyond the outer boundary of safety 
compatibility zones, and outside of the CNEL noise contour for the airport.50 Therefore, future 
development of the site would not result in a safety hazard for people related to airport activities. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
 
 
49 City of San Mateo. “Current and Upcoming Projects”. Accessed April 12, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1970/Current-Upcoming-Projects  
50 City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County, Comprehensive Airport Land Use Compatibility 
Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport. November 2012 
298 of 1252

--- page 299 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
104 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact HAZ-6: 
The project would not impair implementation of or physically interfere with 
an adopted emergency response plan or emergency evacuation plan. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Development of the proposed project would not physically interfere with an adopted emergency 
response or evacuation plan. During construction and operation of the proposed project, roadways 
would not be permanently blocked such that emergency vehicles would be unable to access the site 
or surrounding sites. Compliance with the California Building and Fire Code requirements as 
amended by the City of San Mateo would ensure that proposed project would not impair or interfere 
with the implementation of an adopted emergency response plan or emergency evacuation plan. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact HAZ-7: 
The project would not expose people or structures, either directly or 
indirectly, to a significant risk of loss, injury, or death involving wildland 
fires. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The proposed project site is located in a heavily urbanized area of downtown San Mateo. There are 
no areas susceptible to wildfire in the project vicinity. Therefore, the project would not expose people 
or structures to substantial risk as a result of potential wildfires. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(No Impact)] 
 
 
 
299 of 1252

--- page 300 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
105 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY 
4.10.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
Federal and State 
The federal Clean Water Act and California’s Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act are the 
primary laws related to water quality in California. Regulations set forth by the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) and the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) have been 
developed to fulfill the requirements of this legislation. EPA regulations include the National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, which controls sources that 
discharge pollutants into the waters of the United States (e.g., streams, lakes, bays, etc.). These 
regulations are implemented at the regional level by the Regional Water Quality Control Boards 
(RWQCBs). The project site is within the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Bay RWQCB. 
 
National Flood Insurance Program 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) established the National Flood Insurance 
Program (NFIP) to reduce impacts of flooding on private and public properties. The program 
provides subsidized flood insurance to communities that comply with FEMA regulations protecting 
development in floodplains. As part of the program, FEMA publishes Flood Insurance Rate Maps 
(FIRMs) that identify Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs). An SFHA is an area that would be 
inundated by the one-percent annual chance flood, which is also referred to as the base flood or 100-
year flood.  
 
Statewide Construction General Permit 
The SWRCB has implemented an NPDES General Construction Permit for the State of California 
(Construction General Permit). For projects disturbing one acre or more of soil, a Notice of Intent 
(NOI) must be filed with the RWQCB by the project sponsor, and a Storm Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) must be prepared by a qualified professional prior to commencement of 
construction and filed with the RWQCB by the project sponsor. The Construction General Permit 
includes requirements for training, inspections, record keeping, and, for projects of certain risk 
levels, monitoring. The general purpose of the requirements is to minimize the discharge of 
pollutants and to protect beneficial uses and receiving waters from the adverse effects of 
construction-related storm water discharges. 
 
Regional 
San Francisco Bay Basin Plan 
The San Francisco Bay RWQCB regulates water quality in accordance with the Water Quality 
Control Plan for the San Francisco Bay Basin (Basin Plan). The Basin Plan lists the beneficial uses 
that the San Francisco Bay RWQCB has identified for local aquifers, streams, marshes, rivers, and 
the San Francisco Bay, as well as the water quality objectives and criteria that must be met to protect 
these uses. The San Francisco Bay RWQCB implements the Basin Plan by issuing and enforcing 
waste discharge requirements, including permits for nonpoint sources such as the urban runoff 
300 of 1252

--- page 301 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
106 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
discharged by a City’s stormwater drainage system. The Basin Plan also describes watershed 
management programs and water quality attainment strategies. 
 
Municipal Regional Permit Provision C.3 
The San Francisco Bay RWQCB re-issued the Municipal Regional Stormwater NPDES Permit 
(MRP) in 2022 (effective July 1, 2022) to regulate stormwater discharges from municipalities and 
local agencies (co-permittees) in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, and Santa Clara Counties, and 
the cities of Fairfield, Suisun City, and Vallejo.51 Under Provision C.3 of the MRP, new and 
redevelopment projects that create or replace 5,000 square feet or more of impervious surface area 
are required to implement site design, source control, and Low Impact Development (LID)-based 
stormwater treatment controls to treat post-construction stormwater runoff. LID-based treatment 
controls are intended to maintain or restore the site’s natural hydrologic functions, maximizing 
opportunities for infiltration and evapotranspiration, and using stormwater as a resource (e.g., 
rainwater harvesting for non-potable uses). The MRP also requires that stormwater treatment 
measures are properly installed, operated, and maintained. 
 
In addition to water quality controls, the MRP requires new development and redevelopment projects 
that create or replace one acre or more of impervious surface to manage development-related 
increases in peak runoff flow, volume, and duration, where such hydromodification is likely to cause 
increased erosion, silt pollutant generation, or other impacts to local rivers, streams, and creeks. 
Projects may be deemed exempt from these requirements if: (1) the post-project impervious surface 
area is less than, or the same as, the pre-project impervious surface area; (2) the project is located in a 
catchment that drains to a hardened (e.g., continuously lined with concrete) engineered channel or 
channels or enclosed pipes, which extend continuously to the Bay, Delta, or flow controlled 
reservoir, or, in a catchment that drains to channels that are tidally influenced; or (3) the project is 
located in a catchment or subwatershed that is highly developed (i.e., that is 70 percent or more 
impervious).52 
 
Construction Dewatering Waste Discharge Requirements 
Each of the RWQCBs regulate construction dewatering discharges to storm drains or surface waters 
within its Region under the NPDES program and Waste Discharge Requirements. 
 
Local 
San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
The San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program (SMCWPPP) was established in 
1990 to reduce the pollution carried by stormwater into local creeks, San Francisco Bay, and the 
Pacific Ocean. The program is a partnership of the City/County Association of Governments 
(C/CAG), each incorporated city and town in the county, and the County of San Mateo, which share 
a common National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. The SMCWPPP includes 
 
51 MRP Number CAS612008 
52 The Hydromodification Applicability Maps developed the permittees under Order No. R2-2009-0074 were 
prepared using this standard, adjusted to 65 percent imperviousness to account for the presence of vegetation on the 
photographic references used to determine imperviousness. Thus, the maps for Order No. R2-2009-0074 are 
accepted as meeting the 70 percent requirement. 
301 of 1252

--- page 302 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
107 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
pollution reduction activities for construction sites, illegal discharges and illicit connections, new 
development, and municipal operations. The program also includes a target pollutant reduction 
strategy and monitoring program 
 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The San Mateo General Plan contains the following policies related to stormwater drainage. 
 
Policies  
Description 
S 2.5 
Implement the improvements identified in the City of San Mateo’s seven watershed areas to improve 
and maintain drainage capacity adequate to convey water during a typical storm event. Include 
consideration of creek maintenance and an education and/or enforcement program to minimize illegal 
dumping of debris and chemicals. 
LU 4.4.5 
Continue to implement the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program to 
ensure compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination (NPDES) permit. 
1. Prevent water pollution from point and non-point sources. 
2. Minimize stormwater runoff and pollution by encouraging low-impact design features, such 
as pervious parking surfaces, bioswales and filter strips in new development. 
3. Encourage the use of drought-tolerant and native vegetation in landscaping. 
 
San Mateo Municipal Code  
Chapter 7.39 in the San Mateo Municipal Code addresses stormwater management and the control of 
non-stormwater discharges in the City of San Mateo. Included in this section is the City’s 
requirement for a SWPPP, consistent with the State Water Resources Control Board’s NPDES 
Construction General Permit requirements and in coordination with the SMCWPPP. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Hydrology and Drainage 
The City of San Mateo Public Works Department operates and maintains the storm drainage system 
in the City. The City of San Mateo is divided into four (4) major drainage basins: the North 
Shoreview Pump Stations (also referred to as the North San Mateo complex), San Mateo Creek 
complex, the Marina Lagoon complex, and the Third and Detroit watershed, which are each 
comprised of numerous stream channels, culverts, and storm drainage piping systems The project site 
is within the San Mateo Creek complex.53 
 
The project site is largely covered by the existing building and pavement, although there is some 
landscaping present along the perimeter of the existing Draeger’s Market and parking lot. 
Stormwater that does not infiltrate into site landscaping flows into the City’s existing storm drains 
which convey stormwater flows to the City’s stormwater system.  
 
Groundwater 
The project site is located within the San Mateo Groundwater Basin, San Mateo Plain Subbasin. 
Groundwater flow in the area is generally northeast toward the San Francisco Bay. Groundwater was 
 
53 City of San Mateo. General Plan EIR. Figure 4.8-1. July 2009.  
302 of 1252

--- page 303 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
108 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
encountered on-site during soil boring at depths ranging from approximately 29 to 52 bgs.54 As 
described in Section 4.7 Geology and Soils, historic high groundwater at the site has been mapped at 
a depth of 18 feet bgs and groundwater monitoring wells in the vicinity have indicated depths to 
groundwater to be about 17 to 21.5 bgs. Therefore, a design groundwater depth of 18 feet bgs can be 
assumed.  
 
Flooding 
The nearest creeks to the project site are San Mateo Creek, approximately 0.3 miles north of the 
project site, and Leslie Creek, approximately 0.8 miles southeast of the project site. Both of these 
creeks are channelized above or below ground in the area of the project site. Both of these creeks 
flow easterly towards the San Francisco Bay, which is located approximately 1.1 miles northeast of 
the project site at its nearest point. 
 
The project site is not located within a 100-year flood hazard zone. According to the Flood Insurance 
Rate Map (FIRM) prepared for the project area by the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA), the project site is located within Zone X, which is defined as an “area of minimal flood 
hazard”.55 Areas with Flood Zone X have a 0.2 percent annual chance of flooding, with average 
depths of less than one foot or with drainage areas less than one square mile. 
 
Dam Failure 
There are five dams that present flood risks to the City of San Mateo. These dams are Crystal 
Springs, San Andreas, Laurel Creek, and East Laurel Creek, and Tobin Creek (located in 
Hillsborough, CA). Dam hazard maps included in the City of San Mateo General Plan EIR (Figure 
4.8-4) show that the project site is within the Crystal Springs dam failure inundation hazard zone.  
 
Seiche and Tsunami 
A seiche is defined as a standing wave generated by rapid displacement of water within an enclosed 
body of water (such as a reservoir, lake, or bay) due to an earthquake that triggers land movement 
within the water body or landsliding into or beneath the water body.  
 
A tsunami is a large tidal wave caused by an underwater earthquake or volcanic eruption. Tsunamis 
affecting the Bay Area can result from offshore earthquakes within the Bay Area.  
 
In the City of San Mateo, these tsunami and seiche events are most hazardous in the shoreline areas. 
Since the site is approximately 1.1 miles from the San Francisco Bay and is not immediately adjacent 
to the Bay, the site will not likely be subject to inundation due to seiches and tsunamis.  
 
 
54 RMD Environmental Solutions. Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report – 222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, 
California. July 7, 2021.  
55 FEMA. Flood Insurance Rate Map, Community Panel No. 06081C0154G. Map. Effective Date: April 5, 2019. 
https://msc.fema.gov/portal/search?AddressQuery=222%20East%204th%20Avenue%2C%20San%20Mateo#search
resultsanchor  
303 of 1252

--- page 304 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
109 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.10.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Violate any water quality standards or 
waste discharge requirements or 
otherwise substantially degrade surface 
or ground water quality? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Substantially decrease groundwater 
supplies or interfere substantially with 
groundwater recharge such that the 
project may impede sustainable 
groundwater management of the basin? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Substantially alter the existing drainage 
pattern of the site or area, including 
through the alteration of the course of a 
stream or river or through the addition of 
impervious surfaces, in a manner which 
would:  
 
 
 
 
 
- 
result in substantial erosion or 
siltation on- or off-site; 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
substantially increase the rate or 
amount of surface runoff in a 
manner which would result in 
flooding on- or off-site; 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
create or contribute runoff water 
which would exceed the capacity of 
existing or planned stormwater 
drainage systems or provide 
substantial additional sources of 
polluted runoff; or 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
impede or redirect flood flows? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) In flood hazard, tsunami, or seiche 
zones, risk release of pollutants due to 
project inundation? 
 
 
 
 
 
5) Conflict with or obstruct implementation 
of a water quality control plan or 
sustainable groundwater management 
plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND stated that new development may result in 
additional paved surfaces, though much of the plan area was already developed at the time the 
IS/MND was prepared. Increased paved surfaces may impact water quality and increase runoff due to 
storm water runoff. The DASP IS/MND determined that impacts to hydrology and water quality 
304 of 1252

--- page 305 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
110 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
would be reduced to a less than significant level through conformance with the State General 
Construction Activity NPDES permit, General Plan policies, and DASP policies.  
Impact HYD-1: 
The project would not violate any water quality standards or waste discharge
requirements or otherwise substantially degrade surface or ground water 
quality. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
Construction Impacts 
Construction activities, such as grading and excavation, have the potential to result in temporary 
impacts to surface water quality in adjacent waterways. When disturbance to the soil occurs, 
sediments may be dislodged and discharged into the storm drainage system after surface runoff flows 
across the site. The proposed project would disturb approximately 1.1 acres, which is above the one-
acre threshold requiring compliance with the State of California Construction General Permit.  
The proposed project would be required to comply with the NPDES General Permit for Construction 
Activities due to the scale of soil disturbance. A NOI and SWPPP would be prepared by a qualified 
professional prior to commencement of construction. Additionally, the proposed project would be 
required to comply with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, thereby ensuring it 
complies with local and regional regulations regarding the reduction of pollutants in stormwater. 
As noted above in Section 4.9 Hazards and Hazardous Materials, contaminants in the soil on-site 
require carbon treatment of groundwater to remediate the presence of TPHd prior to discharge to the 
storm or sanitary sewer drains. 
Conditions of Approval: The following conditions, based on RWQCB requirements and City of 
San Mateo Standard Conditions of Approval, shall be implemented by the project in order to reduce 
potential construction-related water quality impacts:  
•
Construction best management practices (BMPs) shall be implemented for reducing the
volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the maximum extent practicable during site
excavation, grading, and construction. In accordance with the City’s standards, these BMPs
will include, but will not be limited to:
•
Avoid or minimize excavation and grading activities during wet weather, unless the
City approves a winter erosion control plan submitted by the applicant.
•
Use effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during the
construction periods. Provide temporary cover of all disturbed surfaces to help control
erosion during construction.
•
Provide permanent cover as soon as is practical to stabilize the disturbed surfaces after
construction has been completed.
•
Protect existing storm drain inlets in the project area from sedimentation with filter
fabric fences gravel bags block and gravel filters.
•
Cover and stabilize stockpiled soil and materials with tarps, geotextile fabric,
hydroseeding and/or erosion control blankets
305 of 1252

--- page 306 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
111 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
• 
Install berms or silt fencing around stockpiled materials to prevent stormwater runoff 
from transporting sediment off-site  
 
• The applicant shall comply with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) 
Construction permit requirements and prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan 
(SWPPP) (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.39).  
 
•  The design groundwater level on-site is assumed to be 18 feet bgs. The project would 
excavate to a depth of approximately 25 feet to accommodate the proposed below-grade 
parking garage. Therefore, it is likely that the project would require dewatering of subsurface 
groundwater during construction. In accordance with the City’s Municipal Code (SMMC 
7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the discharge of ground waters to the 
sanitary sewer if the source is deemed unacceptable by State and Federal authorities for 
discharge to surface waters of the United States, whether pretreated or untreated, and for 
which no reasonable alternative method of disposal is available. As required by MM HAZ-
2.2 to be implemented during dewatering, carbon treatment of groundwater shall be required 
to remediate the presence of TPHd prior to discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains. 
Following the verification of the applicable local, state and/or federal approvals, a Discharge 
Plan will be approved and monitored by the Public Works Department. 
 
Construction of the proposed project, with implementation of the above measures in accordance with 
the City’s Municipal Code and General Plan policies, as well as MM HAZ-2.2, would not result in 
significant construction-related water quality impacts. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less 
than Significant Impact)] 
 
Post-Construction Impacts 
The project would result in approximately 46,665 square-feet of impervious surface area (94 percent) 
and approximately 2,802 square-feet of pervious surface area on-site (six percent). The project would 
replace more than 5,000 square-feet of impervious surfaces; therefore, the project is required to 
design and construct stormwater treatment controls to treat post-construction stormwater runoff in 
accordance with Provision C.3 of the MRP.  
 
The following conditions of approval, based on RWQCB requirements and City of San Mateo 
Standard Conditions of Approval, shall be implemented by the project in order to reduce potential 
post-construction water quality impacts: 
 
Conditions of Approval:  
 
• 
The project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm 
Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board 
(SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To obtain 
coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water 
Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity 
NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public Works Department along 
with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP 
designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit. 
306 of 1252

--- page 307 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
112 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
• 
In accordance with the Director of Public Works Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of 
contaminated groundwater to the sanitary sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and 
will not be permitted for a period greater than six months. Discharges for longer than six 
months must obtain an NPDES permit from the State Water Board to discharge to the storm 
drain system. No discharge to the storm drain is allowed without prior approval from the 
Public Works Department. All discharges to the sanitary sewer (contaminated and 
uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and must comply with the City’s 
discharge limits. 
 
The project shall implement site design and source control BMPs for minimizing the volume of 
runoff and pollution in runoff to the extent practicable, per the MRP. These BMPs may include the 
following: 
 
• 
Disconnected downspouts that are directed into landscape areas; 
• 
Minimization of impervious surfaces and increased use of permeable pavement where 
feasible; 
• 
Location of all storm drain inlets to be stenciled with, “No Dumping! Flows to Bay” to 
discourage illegal dumping; 
• 
Location and design of trash enclosures (all shall be covered) and materials handling areas;  
• 
Use of effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during post-construction 
periods. 
 
By adhering to the standard conditions described above and complying with the requirements of the 
MRP, the proposed project would have a less than significant impact on post-construction water 
quality. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
Impact HYD-2: 
The project would not substantially decrease groundwater supplies or interfere 
substantially with groundwater recharge such that the project may impede 
sustainable groundwater management of the basin. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project is not expected to encounter groundwater during construction; however, it is possible that 
the project would require dewatering. Groundwater on-site is known to exist at a depth of 
approximately 29 feet bgs. The project would excavate to a depth of approximately 23 feet to 
accommodate the proposed below-grade parking garage. Given the fact that groundwater on-site 
generally exists several feet below the anticipated depth of excavation, any dewatering that may be 
required would be relatively minor. Project operation would not establish new groundwater sources 
or result in a substantial depletion of aquifers relied upon for local water supplies. For these reasons, 
the proposed project would not result in a significant impact on groundwater supplies or interfere 
substantially with groundwater recharge. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
307 of 1252

--- page 308 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
113 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact HYD-3: 
The project would not substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the 
site or area, including through the alteration of the course of a stream or river 
or through the addition of impervious surfaces, in a manner which would 
result in substantial erosion or siltation on- or off-site; substantially increase 
the rate or amount of surface runoff in a manner which would result in 
flooding on- or off-site; create or contribute runoff water which would exceed 
the capacity of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems or provide 
substantial additional sources of polluted runoff; or impede or redirect flood 
flows. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Given that the project site is already developed and contains limited amounts of pervious surface 
area, the proposed redevelopment would not substantially alter the drainage pattern of the project site 
by adding impervious surfaces. The project would not alter the course of a waterway. The project 
would be required to manage erosion during construction in accordance with the City’s Site 
Development Code 23.40.040 (refer to Impact GEO-2) and the Construction General Permit. 
Stormwater runoff from the project’s impervious surfaces would be directed towards flow-through 
planters and media filters that would treat and reduce the stormwater runoff entering the City’s storm 
drainage system. The project would not create substantial new sources of polluted runoff upon 
adherence to the MRP and Construction General Permit. The project would, therefore, not 
substantially alter the drainage pattern of the site or area in a manner which would result in on or 
offsite erosion, flooding, or runoff impacts. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact HYD-4: 
The project would not risk release of pollutants due to project inundation in 
flood hazard, tsunami, or seiche zones. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project site is designated as Flood Zone X, an area of minimal flood hazard. The project is not 
located within a 100-year flood hazard area.  
 
The proposed project is located within the dam failure inundation area for the Lower Crystal Springs 
dam. In the event of collapse of the Lower Crystal Springs Reservoir, the project site would be 
detrimentally impacted by inundation from the released flows; however, the California Division of 
Safety of Dams (DSOD) reviews and annually inspects dams statewide for potential failure in the 
event of major seismic activity. The DSOD has evaluated the Lower Crystal Springs dam for 
potential failure during an earthquake with a maximum magnitude of 8.3 on the Richter scale, and 
determined that potential for dam failure would be low.56 Although the potential for inundation from 
dam failure remains, it is highly unlikely. Furthermore, the project would not exacerbate the risk of 
dam failure.  
 
The project site is not located adjacent to any large bodies of water (i.e., the San Francisco Bay), nor 
is the project located within a designated tsunami inundation zone. Seiches and tsunamis would be 
unlikely to affect the project due to its location approximately 1.1 miles inland from the San 
Francisco Bay. For this reason, and those discussed above, the proposed project would not risk 
 
56 County of San Mateo. Hazard Vulnerability Assessment. January 2016.   
308 of 1252

--- page 309 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
114 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
release of pollutants due to project inundation. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact HYD-5: 
The project would not conflict with or obstruct implementation of a water 
quality control plan or sustainable groundwater management plan. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project site is located in the San Mateo Plain subbasin of the Santa Clara Valley groundwater 
basin. The San Mateo Plain subbasin has not been identified as medium- or high-priority 
groundwater basin by the California Department of Water Resources; therefore, a Groundwater 
Sustainability Plan does not need to be prepared for the subbasin per the requirements of the 
Sustainable Groundwater Management Act.57 Thus, the proposed project would not conflict with a 
sustainable groundwater management plan.  
 
The RWQCB updates its Water Quality Control Plan for the Basin Plan triennially to reflect current 
conditions and track progress towards meeting water quality objectives. The proposed project would 
comply with the SMCWPPP, the MRP, the Construction General Permit, and the Conditions of 
Approval discussed in this section, thereby ensuring construction-period and post-construction water 
quality impacts do not occur. By adhering to these policies and regulations the proposed project 
would not prevent the RWQCB from attaining the water quality objectives set forth in the Basin 
Plan. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
 
 
 
57 California Department of Water Resources. “Basin Prioritization”. https://water.ca.gov/Programs/Groundwater-
Management/Basin-Prioritization. Accessed April 13, 2022.  
309 of 1252

--- page 310 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
115 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
LAND USE AND PLANNING 
4.11.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
AB 1763 
AB 1763 amended the State Density Bonus Law, which encourages cities to offer bonuses and 
incentives to housing developers that will “contribute significantly to the economic feasibility of lower 
income housing in proposed housing developments.” (Gov. Code § 65917.) In addition to other 
changes to the State Density Bonus Law, AB 1763 requires a density bonus to be provided to a 
developer who agrees to construct a housing development in which 100 percent of the total units are for 
lower income households. Such a development that is within a half-mile of a major transit stop shall 
receive a bonus allowing a height increase of up to three additional stories, or 33 feet. The City’s 
Downtown Specific Plan has a normally allowed height limit of 55 feet. Under AB 1763, a qualifying 
development may reach a maximum height of 88 feet.  
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan was adopted in 2010, and serves as the guiding document 
for development, current or planned, within the limits of the city. The General Plan contains the 
seven elements required by state law, including land use, circulation, housing, public safety, natural 
resources conservation, open space, and noise. An Urban Design element has also been included in 
the General Plan, focusing on preserving the city image conveyed by focal points, corridors, and 
gateways, and discussing the design of future residential and commercial areas. The 2030 General 
Plan reflects the community’s long-term vision, and provides the framework for land use decisions 
on a broad scale. The City of San Mateo has established eight major policy strategies in the 2030 
General Plan:  
 
1. 
Increase housing opportunities while maintaining the character of existing single-family and 
low density neighborhoods.  
2. 
Maintain the commitment to strengthening the Downtown as a major commercial, residential 
and cultural center. 
3. 
Concentrate major new development near transportation and transit corridors. 
4.  
Beautify and improve El Camino Real 
5. 
Improve design quality and maintain established height limits. 
6. 
Develop a strategy to limit traffic congestion. 
7. 
Increase open space and recreational opportunities. 
8. 
Establish and maintain San Mateo as a sustainable city 
 
Various policies and actions of the City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan have been adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating land use impacts resulting from planned development within the 
City, including the following:  
 
310 of 1252

--- page 311 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
116 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
LU 1.1 
Plan for land uses, population density, and land use intensity as shown on the Land Use, Height 
and Building Intensity and City Image Plans for the entire planning area. Design the circulation 
system and infrastructure to provide capacity for the total development expected in 2030. Review 
projections annually and adjust infrastructure and circulation requirements as required if actual 
growth varies significantly from that projected. 
LU 1.4 
Adopt and maintain the development intensity/density limits as identified on the Land Use Map 
and Building Intensity Plan, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2. Development intensity/density 
shall recognize natural environmental constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake faults, debris 
flow areas, hazards, traffic and access, necessary services, and general community and 
neighborhood design. Maintain a density and building intensity range, with densities/intensities at 
the higher end of the range to be considered based on provision of public benefits such as 
affordable housing, increased open space, public plazas or recreational facilities, or off-site 
infrastructure improvements. 
LU 1.5 
Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix C, and as specified in Policy LU 
6A.2, closely matched with the Land Use categories and Building Intensity standards. 
LU 1.8 
Facilitate housing production by allowing commercial mixed use development which includes 
multi-family dwellings in all non-residential land use categories except service commercial, 
manufacturing/ industrial and parks/open space. 
LU 1.20 
As a high priority support code enforcement to ensure that all uses are in compliance with City 
codes and conditions of development approval. 
LU 2.4 
Establish Downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City with a 
wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities while encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent 
neighborhoods. 
LU 6A.1 
The City shall not approve any specific plan, rezoning, permit, subdivision, variance, or other 
land use permit which is not consistent with and does not implement the General Plan. Specific 
Plan and zoning ordinances were amended so as to conform to the General Plan by the end of 
1992. 
LU 6A.2 
Maintain Building Height and Building Intensity maps/plans which delineate development 
intensity in the form of building heights and FARs in a manner which implements the height, 
intensity, density and design standards in the General Plan, consistent with the Building Heights 
and Intensities maps/plans as amended by initiative in November 1991 and November 2004. 
 
City of San Mateo Zoning Ordinance 
The Zoning Ordinance is the primary tool for implementing the policies of the General Plan and 
address physical development standards and criteria for the City. Government Code Section 65860 
requires municipalities to maintain consistency between their zoning ordinance and their adopted 
general plan. One of the purposes of zoning is to implement the land use designations set forth in the 
general plan. Existing zoning in the City includes 23 districts and provides development standards for 
land uses. Although the two are distinct documents, the San Mateo General Plan and Zoning 
Ordinance are closely related, and State law mandates that zoning regulations be consistent with the 
General Plan maps and policies.  
 
City of San Mateo Downtown Area Plan  
The Downtown Area Plan provides a framework to examine the future direction and decision making 
for the City’s downtown. The policies in this document provide overall direction and are used to 
evaluate private development projects and to guide the City’s actions regarding public improvements 
311 of 1252

--- page 312 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
117 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
and public owned land in the Downtown. Policies in the Downtown Area Plan that are relevant to the 
proposed project are included below.  
 
Policies  
Description 
I.3 
Establish the 3rd & 4th Avenue corridors as a main entry and connection to the Downtown core 
areas and utilize the natural landscaping of San Mateo Creek and Central Park to define the 
boundaries of the downtown. Create major entry features to the City at: (1) 3rd/4th Avenues from 
El Camino, (2) from the north and south of B Street to the retail core, and (3) from east of the 
railroad tracks.  
II.10 
Facilitate housing production by allowing multi-family dwellings as part of mixed use 
developments in all downtown commercial and office land use categories, except areas designated 
service commercial and parks/open space in the General Plan.  
III.9 
Continue to implement the Gateway Design Standards.  
V.8 
On a case-by-case basis, consider parking reductions for projects with 0.5 mile of the Downtown 
Transit Center. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The project site is designated as Downtown Retail Core under the City’s Downtown Area Plan and is 
zoned CBD/R (Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use). The Downtown 
Area Plan generally describes the Downtown Retail Core designation as a good mix of ground floor 
retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and downtown’s pedestrian-oriented 
environment. The San Mateo Municipal Code states that the purpose of the CBD District is to 
encourage the development and re-use of existing downtown structures as a center for retail, cultural, 
entertainment, and community services uses. Pedestrian activity should be strongly encouraged at the 
ground floor level, while upper floor office and residential uses should be encouraged to promote 
active daytime and nighttime use of the downtown area. The Residential Overlay District requires 
that residential development on properties zoned CBD/R be subject to /R density standards.  
 
4.11.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Physically divide an established 
community? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Cause a significant environmental 
impact due to a conflict with any land 
use plan, policy, or regulation adopted 
for the purpose of avoiding or mitigating 
an environmental effect? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that no 
land use/planning impacts would occur as a result on buildout of the DASP because the DASP is 
consistent with the General Plan land use designations, building heights, densities, and intensities. 
Additionally, the DASP IS/MND noted that the DASP and General Plan contain policies that would 
312 of 1252

--- page 313 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
118 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
eliminate inconsistencies in City planning and would reduce potential impacts to a less than 
significant level. The 2030 General Plan EIR, prepared after the DASP IS/MND, also anticipated 
major development to occur in the Downtown area, with downtown revitalization expected to 
continue to include new residential, office, retail, and mixed-use development as the availability of 
goods and services, walkability, and public transportation services continue to improve and expand, 
and concluded land use impacts would be less than significant with implementation of General Plan 
policies. 
 
Impact LU-1: 
The project would not physically divide an established community. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project would demolish the existing Draeger’s Market and construct a new five-story, mixed-use 
building. The project does not propose dividing infrastructure such as highways, freeways, or major 
arterials that could inhibit the access of residents to the surrounding areas. The project would not 
physically divide an established community within the City because it would not inhibit the 
movement of residents throughout nearby neighborhoods. (Less than Significant Impact) 
 
Impact LU-2: 
The project would not cause a significant environmental impact due to a 
conflict with any land use plan, policy, or regulation adopted for the purpose 
of avoiding or mitigating an environmental effect. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
At a proposed density of approximately nine dwelling units/acre (du/acre), the project would be 
below the maximum density allowed under the Downtown Retail Core Specific Plan designation (75 
du/acre). The proposed mixed-use building ,at a maximum height of approximately 75 feet, would 
exceed the normally allowable height limit of 55 feet within the Downtown Specific Plan Area. 
However, under AB 1763, the project is allowed an additional 33 feet above the normally allowed 
height limit of 55 feet (for a not to exceed height of 88 feet) given that the project is providing 10 
low-income housing units (100 percent of the proposed residential component) and is located within 
a half-mile of a major transit stop. By proposing a mix of land uses at the project site within the 
downtown area, the project would be consistent with the General Plan and Specific Plan policies to 
increase housing by providing mixed-use buildings within the downtown area (General Plan policy 
LU-1.8, Specific Plan policy II.10). For these reasons, the proposed project would not conflict with 
any General Plan goals or policies intended to avoid or mitigate environmental impacts.  
 
Furthermore, the project site is not subject to any adopted habitat conservation plans or natural 
community conservation plans. The project’s consistency with plans focused on specific 
environmental issue areas, such as the BAAQMD 2017 CAP, the City of San Mateo CAP, and the 
Sustainable Streets Plan, is discussed in the relevant resource sections throughout this document. The 
project is located outside of the safety compatibility zones and CNEL noise contours for the San 
Francisco International Airport and would not conflict with policies in the adopted CLUP. 
Implementation of the proposed project would be consistent with established local and regional plans 
and policies, and the project would not conflict with any plans or policies adopted to reduce or 
prevent environmental impacts. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
313 of 1252

--- page 314 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
119 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
MINERAL RESOURCES 
4.12.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Surface Mining and Reclamation Act 
The Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA) was enacted by the California legislature in 
1975 to address the need for a continuing supply of mineral resources, and to prevent or minimize the 
negative impacts of surface mining to public health, property, and the environment. As mandated 
under SMARA, the State Geologist has designated mineral land classifications in order to help 
identify and protect mineral resources in areas within the state subject to urban expansion or other 
irreversible land uses which would preclude mineral extraction. SMARA also allowed the State 
Mining and Geology Board (SMGB), after receiving classification information from the State 
Geologist, to designate lands containing mineral deposits of regional or statewide significance.  
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The project site is located in a developed urban area in the City of San Mateo. Mineral resources 
within San Mateo County such as limestone deposits, rock quarries and salt evaporation ponds are 
located in the coastal areas, mountains and baylands. There are no known mineral resources in the 
vicinity of the project site.  
 
4.12.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Result in the loss of availability of a 
known mineral resource that will be of 
value to the region and the residents of 
the state? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Result in the loss of availability of a 
locally important mineral resource 
recovery site delineated on a local 
general plan, specific plan or other land 
use plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that buildout of the DASP would 
have no impact on mineral resources because there are no mineral resources within the downtown 
area.  
 
314 of 1252

--- page 315 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
120 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact MIN-1: 
The project would not result in the loss of availability of a known mineral 
resource that would be of value to the region and residents of the state. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
There are no identified mineral resources located within or adjacent to the project site. The proposed 
project would not result in the loss of availability of any known mineral resources. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact MIN-2: 
The project would not result in the loss of availability of a locally important 
mineral resource recovery site delineated on a local general plan, specific 
plan, or other land use plan. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No 
Impact)] 
 
There are no identified mineral resource recovery sites located within or adjacent to the project site. 
The proposed project would not result in the loss of a mineral resource recovery site. [Same Impact 
as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
 
 
315 of 1252

--- page 316 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
121 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
NOISE 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Noise and Vibration Assessment prepared for the 
project by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc., dated October 2022. A copy of this report is included in 
Appendix K of this Addendum.  
 
4.13.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Background Information 
Noise 
Factors that influence sound as it is perceived by the human ear, include the actual level of sound, 
period of exposure, frequencies involved, and fluctuation in the noise level during exposure. Noise is 
measured on a decibel scale, which serves as an index of loudness. The zero on the decibel scale is 
based on the lowest sound level that the healthy, unimpaired human ear can detect. Each 10 decibel 
increase in sound level is perceived as approximately a doubling of loudness. Because the human ear 
cannot hear all pitches or frequencies, sound levels are frequently adjusted or weighted to correspond 
to human hearing. This adjusted unit is known as the A-weighted decibel, or dBA. 
 
Since excessive noise levels can adversely affect human activities and human health, federal, state, 
and local governmental agencies have set forth criteria or planning goals to minimize or avoid these 
effects. Noise guidelines are generally expressed using one of several noise averaging methods, 
including Leq, DNL, or CNEL.58 These descriptors are used to measure a location’s overall noise 
exposure, given that there are times when noise levels are higher (e.g., when a jet is taking off from 
an airport or when a leaf blower is operating) and times when noise levels are lower (e.g., during lulls 
in traffic flows on freeways or in the middle of the night). Lmax is the maximum A-weighted noise 
level during a measurement period. 
 
Vibration  
Ground vibration consists of rapidly fluctuating motions or waves with an average motion of zero. 
Vibration amplitude can be quantified using Peak Particle Velocity (PPV), which is defined as the 
maximum instantaneous positive or negative peak of the vibration wave. PPV has been routinely 
used to measure and assess ground-borne construction vibration. Studies have shown that the 
threshold of perception for average persons is in the range of 0.008 to 0.012 inches/second (in/sec) 
PPV.  
 
 
 
58 Leq is a measurement of average energy level intensity of noise over a given period of time. Day-Night Level 
(DNL) is a 24-hour average of noise levels, with a 10 dB penalty applied to noise occurring between 10:00 PM and 
7:00 AM. Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL) includes an additional five dB applied to noise occurring 
between 7:00 PM and 10:00 PM. Where traffic noise predominates, the CNEL and DNL are typically within two 
dBA of the peak-hour Leq. 
316 of 1252

--- page 317 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
122 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Regulatory Framework  
Federal 
Federal Transit Administration Vibration Limits 
The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has developed vibration impact assessment criteria for 
evaluating vibration impacts associated with transit projects. The FTA has proposed vibration impact 
criteria based on maximum overall levels for a single event. The impact criteria for groundborne 
vibration are shown in Table 4.13-1 below. These criteria can be applied to development projects in 
jurisdictions that lack vibration impact standards. 
 
Table 4.13-1: Groundborne Vibration Impact Criteria 
Land Use Category 
Groundborne Vibration Impact Levels 
(VdB inch/sec) 
Frequent 
Event 
Occasional 
Events 
Infrequent 
Events 
Category 1: Buildings where vibration would interfere 
with interior operations 
65 
65 
65  
Category 2: Residences and buildings where people 
normally sleep 
72 
75  
80 
Category 3: Institutional land uses with primarily 
daytime use 
75 
78  
83 
Source: Federal Transit Administration. Transit Noise and Vibration Assessment Manual. September 2018. 
 
State and Local 
California Building Standards Code 
The CBC establishes uniform minimum noise insulation performance standards to protect persons 
within new buildings housing people, including hotels, motels, dormitories, apartments, and 
dwellings other than single-family residences. Title 24 mandates that interior noise levels attributable 
to exterior sources not exceed 45 Ldn/CNEL in any habitable room. Exterior windows must have a 
minimum Sound Transmission Class (STC) of 40 or Outdoor-Indoor Transmission Class (OITC) of 
30 when the property falls within the 65 dBA DNL noise contour for a freeway or expressway, 
railroad, or industrial source. 
 
For commercial uses, CalGreen (Section 5.507.4.1 and 5.507.4.2) requires that wall and roof-ceiling 
assemblies exposed to the adjacent roadways have a composite STC rating of at least 50 or a 
composite OITC rating of no less than 40, with exterior windows of a minimum STC of 40 or OITC 
of 30 when the commercial property falls within the 65 dBA Ldn or greater noise contour for a 
freeway or expressway, railroad, or industrial or stationary noise source. The state requires interior 
noise levels to be maintained at 50 dBA Leq(1-hr) or less during hours of operation at a proposed 
commercial use.  
 
317 of 1252

--- page 318 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
123 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The City of San Mateo General Plan Noise Element contains policies that describe the process for 
evaluating development proposals with respect to noise levels, as well as the standards to be used 
in the evaluation process. The following guidelines and standards are applicable to the subject 
project: 
 
Policies  
Description 
N 1.1 
Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and interior noise insulation 
for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) 
or above, as shown on Figure N-1. The maximum interior noise level shall not exceed 45 dB (Ldn) in 
any habitable rooms. 
N 1.2 
Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, play areas and multi-family common open space 
(intended for the use of the enjoyment of residents) that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or 
above. Require an acoustical analysis that uses peak hour Leq for new parks and play areas. Require a 
feasibility analysis of noise reduction measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate necessary 
mitigation measures into residential project design to minimize common open space noise levels. 
Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 67 dB (Ldn) for residential uses and should not exceed 65 
dB (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park uses. 
N 2.1 
Continue implementation and enforcement of City’s existing noise control ordinance: (a) which 
prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a 
public nuisance, and (b) restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
N 2.2 
Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 and N-2 (Table 4.13-4 and -5 below) of the 
General Plan from adverse impacts caused by noise generated onsite by new developments. 
Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize noise impacts. 
Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB (Ldn) or greater at the common property line, excluding 
existing ambient noise levels. 
“Noise-sensitive” land uses, such as residential neighborhoods, hotels, hospitals, schools, and outdoor 
recreation areas must be protected from new development that causes discernable increases in noise 
levels as a result of on-site activities. Noise generators such as machinery or parking lots must be 
mitigated through physical measures or operational limits. 
N 2.3 
Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise sensitive” in Table N-1 (Table 4.13-4) from adverse 
impacts caused by the on-site noise generated by new developments. 
Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize noise impacts. 
Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dB (Ldn) or above at the property line, excluding 
existing ambient noise levels. 
Commercial and industrial areas typically tolerate higher noise levels than residential neighborhoods. 
However, some control is necessary for new development within non-residential areas so that 
exceptionally noisy uses are restricted. 
N 2.4 
Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting from traffic increases, as shown on 
Figure N-2. Promote the installation of noise barriers along highways where “noise-sensitive” land 
uses listed in Table N-1 (Table 4.13-2) are adversely impacted by unacceptable noise levels [60 dB 
(Ldn) or above]. Require adequate noise mitigation to be incorporated into the widening of SR 92 and 
US 101. Accept noise increases on El Camino Real at existing development, and require new multi-
family development to provide common open space having a maximum exterior noise level of 67 dB 
(Ldn). 
N 2.5 
Promote the installation of noise barriers along the railroad corridor where “noise-sensitive” land uses 
are adversely impacted by unacceptable noise levels [60 dB (Ldn) or greater]. Promote adequate noise 
mitigation to be incorporated into any rail service expansion or track realignment. Study the need of 
depressing the rail line to eliminate at-grade crossings or other mitigation measures to decrease noise 
levels prior to substantial expansion of the rail service. 
 
 
318 of 1252

--- page 319 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
124 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 30.70 of the San Mateo Municipal Code regulates noise generated by project construction 
and operation activities. Section 7.30.040 establishes maximum permissible sound levels for different 
time periods and noise zones. It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any 
source of sound at any location within the City or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, 
leased, occupied, or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level when 
measured on any other property to exceed: 
 
• 
The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 (Table 4.13-3 below) 
for a cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour; 
• 
The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than 15 minutes in any 
hour; 
• 
The noise level standard plus 10 dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes in any 
hour; 
• 
The noise level standard plus 15 dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute in any 
hour; 
• 
The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus 20 dB for any period 
of time. 
 
Table 4.13-3: Construction Noise Level Standards1 
Noise Zone 
Time Period 
Noise Level, dBA 
Zone 1 
10 p.m.–7 a.m. 
50 
7 a.m.–10 p.m. 
60 
Table 4.13-2: Noise Sensitive Land-Use Compatibility Guidelines for Community 
Noise Environments 
Day-Night Average Sound Level (Ldn), Decibels 
Land-Use Category 
Normally 
Acceptable2 
Conditionally 
Acceptable3 
Normally 
Unacceptable4 
Single-Family Residential 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Multi-Family Residential 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Hotels, Motels, and Other 
Lodging Houses 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Long-Term Care Facilities 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Hospitals 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Schools 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Multi-Family Common Open 
Space Intended for the Use and 
Enjoyment of Residents 
50 to 67 
-- 
Greater than 67 
319 of 1252

--- page 320 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
125 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.13-3: Construction Noise Level Standards1 
Noise Zone 
Time Period 
Noise Level, dBA 
Zone 2 
10 p.m.–7 a.m. 
55 
7 a.m.–10 p.m. 
60 
Zone 3 
10 p.m.–7 a.m. 
60 
7 a.m.–10 p.m. 
65 
Zone 4 
Anytime 
70 
Notes: 
1 Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 7.30.040 
Noise Zone 1. All property in any single family residential zone (including adjacent parks and open space) as 
designated on the City’s zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 2. All property in any commercial/mixed residential, multi-family residential, specific plan district 
or PUD as designated on the City’s zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
Noise Zone 3. All property in any commercial or central business district as designated on the City’s zoning 
map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 4. All property in any manufacturing or industrial zone as designated on the City’s zoning map 
prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
 
Further, Section 7.30.060, subsection I states that construction, alteration, repair, or land 
development activities authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed at the following times: 
 
• 
Weekdays: between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. 
• 
Saturdays: between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
• 
Sundays and Holidays: between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. or at other such hours as 
authorized or restricted by the permit, so long as they meet the following conditions: 
o No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a 
distance of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet as 
possible. 
o The noise level outside of any point outside the property plane of the project shall not 
exceed 90 dBA. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The existing noise environment at the project site results primarily from local vehicular traffic along 
E. 4th Avenue and the other surrounding roadways. Noise from more distant traffic along Highway 
101, noise from the nearby Caltrain tracks, and aircraft associated with the San Francisco 
International Airport also contribute to the existing noise environment. A noise monitoring survey, 
which included two long-term (LT-1 and LT-2) and two short-term (ST-1 and ST-2) noise 
measurements, was performed at the site between Tuesday March 22, 2022 and Thursday March 24, 
2022. All measurement locations are shown in Figure 4.13-1.  
 
 
320 of 1252

--- page 321 ---
East 4th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
7th Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Ellsworth Avenue
San Mateo Drive
San Mateo Drive
Laurel Avenue
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
East 4th Avenue
3rd Avenue
East 5th Avenue
6th Avenue
7th Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Ellsworth Avenue
San Mateo Drive
San Mateo Drive
Laurel Avenue
South B Street
South Railroad Avenue
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
2
2
1
1
Aerial Source: Google Earth Pro, Mar. 16, 2022.
Photo Date: Sep. 2021
0
50
200
300
400 Feet
Project Boundary
Off-Site Improvements
Short-Term Noise
Measurement Location
#
Long-Term Noise
Measurement Location
#
NOISE MEASUREMENT LOCATIONS
FIGURE 4.13-1
321 of 1252

--- page 322 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
127 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Based on these noise measurements, ambient noise levels at the project site range from 66 to 68 dBA 
Leq during the day and from 53 to 67 dBA Leq at night. Particularly noisy vehicles and train horns 
produce greater noise levels than the average ambient noise levels experienced at the project site. 
Typical traffic noise ranged from 52 to 54 dBA, while noisy vehicles generated noise levels up to 80 
dBA. A train horn generated noise levels ranging from 70 to 72 dBA.  
 
4.13.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project result in: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Generation of a substantial temporary or 
permanent increase in ambient noise levels 
in the vicinity of the project in excess of 
standards established in the local general 
plan or noise ordinance, or applicable 
standards of other agencies? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Generation of excessive groundborne 
vibration or groundborne noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) For a project located within the vicinity of a 
private airstrip or an airport land use plan 
or, where such a plan has not been adopted, 
within two miles of a public airport or 
public use airport, would the project expose 
people residing or working in the project 
area to excessive noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND did not evaluate 
the impacts of new sources of noise on existing sensitive receptors. The 2030 General Plan EIR did 
evaluate the impacts of new sources of temporary and permanent noise on existing sensitive 
receptors and determined that noise impacts from buildout of the General Plan would be reduced to a 
less than significant level through implementation of General Plan policies and compliance with the 
City’s Noise Ordinance. General Plan Policy N 2.2 requires that noise sensitive land uses be 
protected from noise caused by new developments through incorporation of mitigation measures into 
development design and prohibiting substantial noise increases at common property lines.  
 
 
Thresholds of Significance 
The CEQA Guidelines state that a project would normally be considered to have a significant impact 
if noise levels conflict with adopted environmental standards or plans, or if noise levels generated by 
the project will substantially increase existing noise levels at noise-sensitive receivers on a permanent 
or temporary basis. CEQA does not define what noise level increase would be substantial. As 
discussed in CEQA Guidelines Section 15064(b), the determination of whether a project may have a 
significant effect on the environment calls for judgment on the part of the lead agency and must be 
322 of 1252

--- page 323 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
128 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
based to the extent possible on scientific and factual data. For the purposes of this analysis, the City 
of San Mateo relies on the following as CEQA thresholds of significance: 
 
• 
Construction Noise – Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 7.30.060, construction activities 
that would occur outside the permitted hours of construction (Weekdays between 7:00 a.m. 
and 7:00 p.m., Saturdays between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and holidays 
between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.) or would generate noise exceeding 90 dBA at a distance 
of 25 feet or beyond the property plane would have a significant construction-related noise 
impact. 
• 
Operational Noise – Pursuant to General Plan Policy N2.2, a significant operational-related 
noise impact would occur if a project would result in a permanent noise increase of three 
dBA Ldn or greater. Policy N2.3 limits new commercial developments from generating noise 
levels of 65 dBA Ldn or greater at the property line. Additionally, operational noise is limited 
to the levels identified in Table 4.13-2 as adjusted for ambient conditions. Since daytime and 
nighttime ambient noise levels, as noted in Section 4.13.1.2 Existing Conditions, currently 
exceed Municipal Code standards, operational-related noise at the property plane in excess of 
existing ambient noise levels would be considered a significant noise impact. 
• 
Construction Vibration: The project would be considered to have a significant construction-
related vibration impact if vibration generated during construction exceeds 0.3 in/sec PPV at 
buildings of normal conventional construction or 0.08 in/sec PPV at historical buildings, 
which is the level at which vibration could cause cosmetic damage. 
• 
Excessive Noise Level Exposure: The project would have a significant noise impact related 
to airport operations if construction workers and future residents would be exposed to noise 
levels in excess of the standards identified in Table 4.13-2.  
 
Impact NOI-1: 
The project would not result in generation of a substantial temporary or 
permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the vicinity of the project in 
excess of standards established in the local general plan or noise ordinance, or 
applicable standards of other agencies. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Construction Noise 
Noise impacts resulting from construction depend upon the noise generated by various pieces of 
construction equipment, the timing and duration of noise-generating activities, and the distance 
between construction noise sources and noise-sensitive areas. Construction noise impacts primarily 
result when construction activities occur during noise-sensitive times of the day (e.g., early morning, 
evening, or nighttime hours), the construction occurs in areas immediately adjoining noise-sensitive 
land uses, or when construction lasts over extended periods of time.  
 
Construction activities would generate considerable amounts of noise, especially during earth-
moving activities when heavy equipment is used. During each stage of construction, there would be a 
different mix of equipment operating, and noise levels would vary by stage and vary within stages, 
based on the amount of equipment in operation and the location at which the equipment is operating.  
 
323 of 1252

--- page 324 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
129 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
Project construction is anticipated to occur over a period of approximately 20 months. Consistent 
with Section 7.30.060 of the City’s Municipal Code, construction hours would be limited to 7:00 
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on weekdays, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays, and 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on
Sundays and holidays. Construction phases of the proposed project would include demolition, site
preparation, grading/excavation, trenching, building construction, and paving. Equipment used
during construction activities is expected to include excavators, concrete and industrial saws, tractors,
loaders, backhoes, graders, dozers, cranes, forklifts, shoring drill rigs, welders, air compressors,
aerial lifts, cement and mortar mixers, pavers and paving equipment, and vibratory rollers. No pile
driving is proposed.
The Federal Highway Administration’s Roadway Construction Noise Model was used to calculate 
the hourly average noise levels for each stage of construction, assuming every piece of equipment 
would operate simultaneously, which would represent the worst-case scenario. Table 4.13-4 below 
shows the calculated construction noise levels at the surrounding land uses. Additional information 
on the methodology and assumptions used to estimate the project’s construction noise levels is 
available in Appendix K.  
Table 4.13-4: Calculated Construction Noise Levels at Surrounding Land Uses 
Phase of 
Construction 
Calculated Hourly Average Noise Levels, Leq (dBA) 
Southeast 
Residences (90 
feet) 
Southwest 
Commercial 
(125 feet) 
Northwest 
Commercial 
(175 feet) 
Future 
Northeast 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
(125 feet) 
Demolition 
73 
74 
73 
74 
Site Preparation 
70 
70 
70 
70 
Grading/Excavation 
72 
73 
72 
73 
Trenching/Foundation 
69 
69 
69 
69 
Building - Structure 
63 
63 
63 
63 
Building - Exterior 
63 
64 
63 
64 
Paving 
72 
72 
72 
73 
As shown in Table 4.13-4, the ambient noise level of the surrounding area (66 to 68 dBA during the 
day) would be exceeded at various times during all phases of construction. Individual pieces of 
equipment could exceed the City’s 90 dBA noise limit at 25 feet, and if used within 25 feet of the 
property line, exceed 90 dBA at the property plane.  
Mitigation Measures: 
MM NOI-1.1:  
The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction equipment to 
minimize the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive receptors. 
Construction equipment shall be well-maintained and used judiciously to be as 
324 of 1252

--- page 325 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
130 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND 
City of San Mateo  
November 2022
quiet as possible. Additionally, the applicant and contractor shall incorporate the 
following best management practices to reduce noise from construction activities 
on nearby sensitive land uses: 
(A) The applicant and/or contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan 
identifying the schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. The 
construction plan shall identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent 
residential land uses so that construction activities can be scheduled to 
minimize noise disturbance. This construction plan shall be submitted to the 
Building Division subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee prior to the issuance of a demolition 
permit.
(B) The applicant and/or contractor shall designate a “disturbance coordinator” 
who would be responsible for responding to any complaints about construction 
noise and vibrations. The disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of 
the noise complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures be 
implemented to reduce the noise impact and vibrations. The applicant and/or 
contractor shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the disturbance 
coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to 
neighbors regarding the construction schedule.
(C) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the 
greatest distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-
sensitive receptors nearest the project site during all project construction.
(D) Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment.
(E) Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines shall be strictly prohibited.
(F) Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or 
portable power generators, as far as possible from sensitive receptors and 
property lines. If they must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property 
lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or enclosures where feasible and 
appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive 
receptors.
(G) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air 
compressors and other stationary noise sources where technology exists.
(H) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not 
audible at existing residences surrounding the project site, the nearest of which 
are 90 feet to the southeast. 
Implementation of MM NOI-1.1 would restrict the use of individual pieces of equipment capable of 
generating noise levels of 90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet to 35 feet behind the property line, which 
would ensure that construction noise would not exceed 90 dBA at the property line. Implementation 
of the construction noise best management practices above would reduce construction noise at 
325 of 1252

--- page 326 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
131 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
adjacent land uses to the maximum extent feasible (five to 10 dBA). Accordingly, the project would 
have a less than significant construction noise impact with mitigation incorporated. MM NOI-1.1 
would be required for the project to achieve compliance with the City’s Noise Ordinance, and 
General Plan Policy N-2.2. General Plan Policy N-2.2 assumes that mitigation measures would be 
necessary for new developments to reduce noise levels to acceptable levels for existing sensitive 
receptors. Therefore, project construction would not be considered a new impact and implementation 
of MM NOI-1.1 would be consistent with the 2030 General Plan EIR’s finding that anticipated 
requirements would be placed on construction projects to reduce their effects to acceptable levels. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation 
Incorporated)] 
 
Operational Noise 
Pursuant to General Plan Policy N2.2, a significant impact would occur if a project would result in a 
permanent noise increase of three dBA Ldn or greater. Policy N2.3 limits new commercial 
developments from generating noise levels of 65 dBA Ldn or greater at the property line, excluding 
existing ambient noise levels. Additionally, operational noise is limited to the noise levels specified 
in Table 7.30.040 of the Municipal Code, adjusted for ambient conditions. Since the average hourly 
average noise levels measured in the project vicinity during daytime and nighttime hours exceed 
the Municipal Code thresholds, the measured average noise levels are used as the baseline 
threshold for activities occurring at limited amounts of time (five to 30 minutes in a given hour) to 
conservatively assess the significance of the project’s operational noise.  
 
Project Traffic 
Based on a review of the Transportation Impact Analysis prepared for the project (refer to Appendix 
L), project-generated traffic is estimated to result in an overall noise level increase of one dBA Ldn 
along E. 5th Avenue and less than one dBA Ldn along all other roadway segments. Therefore, project 
traffic would not result in a permanent noise increase of three dBA Ldn or more at noise-sensitive 
receptors in the project vicinity. Project-generated traffic would result in a less than significant noise 
impact.  
 
Mechanical Equipment 
The project would include a pump room, electrical room, and a transformer room on the ground-level 
of the proposed building along the southwestern façade. A mechanical penthouse would also be 
included on the fifth floor in the southwestern portion of the proposed building. The project would 
also include heating, ventilation, solar panels on the fifth floor, and air conditioning (HVAC) units on 
the rooftop. To provide a conservative analysis, for all of the proposed mechanical equipment, a 24-
hour operation was assumed. Therefore, to account for operation during quieter nighttime hours, the 
hourly average threshold based on average ambient noise levels would be 65 dBA during daytime 
hours and 59 dBA during nighttime hours for the existing residences to the southeast and would be 
67 dBA during daytime hours and 61 dBA during nighttime hours for all other receptors surrounding 
the site. 
 
The project would also include an approximately 500(kW, 755-hp diesel emergency backup 
generator. The generator would be located in the upper level of the proposed below-grade parking 
326 of 1252

--- page 327 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
132 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
garage. Given that the proposed generator would be located underground, noise levels produced by 
the emergency generator would be well shielded and below ambient conditions during monthly 
testing, which typically runs for one continuous hour. Noise produced by the generator would not be 
audible to existing off-site receptors.  
 
The project would include transformers ranging from 37.5 to 112.5 kilovolt amperes (kVA). 
Assuming up to three transformers run simultaneously, the combined noise level would be 69 dBA. 
There would not be any windows in the proposed generator room, thus the building walls would 
provide a noise reduction of approximately 20 dBA. Noise generated by on-site transformers would 
not be audible to existing off-site receptors.  
 
Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) heat pump systems and exhaust fans would be located within the 
mechanical penthouse on the fifth floor. The mechanical penthouse would be surrounded by the 
proposed residential units to the northeast and by a parapet wall of approximately the same height as 
the building façade around the other three sides of the penthouse. Assuming the maximum amount of 
condensing units and exhaust fans would be operating simultaneously, equipment within the 
penthouse would generate a noise level of approximately 85 dBA at a distance of three feet. 
Shielding from the proposed residential units and the parapet wall would provide a minimum noise 
reduction of 10 to 20 dBA. The surrounding receptors would be located a minimum of approximately 
145 feet from the center of the mechanical penthouse. Given this distance and the shielding provided, 
noise generated by the VRF heat pump systems and exhaust fans would not be audible to existing 
off-site receptors.  
 
Solar panels would also be included on the fifth floor of the proposed building. Solar panels do not 
generate noise levels loud enough to be audible at the project boundaries.  
 
The project would include HVAC units on the rooftop of the proposed building. Noise levels 
generated by these units would reach up to 62 dBA at a distance of 20 feet. Assuming the proposed 
HVAC units cycle on an off continuously over any given 24-hour period, the day-night average noise 
level generated would be 75 dBA Ldn at 20 feet. It is anticipated that the proposed HVAC units 
would be set back a minimum of 10 feet from the edge of the rooftop above the proposed residential 
units. The HVAC units are anticipated to result in a noise level increase of up to one dBA Ldn at the 
existing residential land uses to the southeast but would not be audible at any other the other existing 
receptors.  
 
Based on the analysis above, the project’s mechanical equipment would result in a less than 
significant noise impact. (Less than Significant Impact) 
 
Truck Loading and Unloading 
The project would include a commercial loading zone and trash pickup area along S. B Street. The 
existing residential building to the southeast and the commercial buildings to the southwest and 
northwest would be shieled from noise generated by truck loading and unloading by the proposed 
mixed-use building. The commercial uses to the northeast, however, would have direct line-of-sight 
to the loading zone. Trash pickup for the proposed office uses would be located at the southern 
corner of the proposed mixed-use building, which would have a direct line-of-sight to both the 
residential uses to the southeast and the commercial uses to the southwest.  
327 of 1252

--- page 328 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
133 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
During loading and unloading activities, truck maneuvering could take up to 15 minutes at a time. 
Given that the measured hourly average noise levels in the project vicinity exceeded the City’s 
thresholds in Table 7.30.040, the noise limit for all loading/unloading activities occurring for up to 
15 minutes in any hour would be five dBA added to the average ambient levels during daytime hours 
only, which would be 72 dBA at the commercial receptors to the northeast. Assuming three heavy 
truck deliveries at the proposed retail area and one trash pickup in a 24-hour period, which would 
represent worst-case conditions, noise levels generated at the proposed loading zone would range 
from 54 to 69 dBA Leq, and the day-night average noise level would be 60 dBA Ldn at a distance of 
50 feet. The commercial uses located northeast of the project site are approximately 105 feet from the 
center of the loading zone along S. B Street. At this distance, hourly average noise levels would 
range from 48 to 63 dBA Leq, and the day-night average noise level would be 54 dBA Ldn. These 
levels would not exceed ambient conditions or the thresholds established by the City during daytime 
hours.  
 
Assuming only one trash pickup at the office trash area, the hourly average noise levels would be 54 
dBA Leq at 50 feet, and the day-night average noise level would be 40 dBA Ldn. The nearest existing 
receptors to the office trash pickup would not be exposed to truck maneuvering noise levels 
exceeding City thresholds. For all existing receptors with direct line-of-sight, the noise level increase 
due to trash pick noise would not be audible. (Less than Significant Impact)  
 
Total Combined Operational Noise 
The operational noise levels produced by the proposed project combined (i.e., traffic, mechanical 
equipment, and truck loading/unloading activities) would result in up to a two dBA Ldn increase at 
the existing residential building along E. 5th Avenue and less than one dBA Ldn at all other existing 
noise-sensitive receptors surrounding the project site. Therefore, the proposed project would not 
result in a substantial increase over ambient noise levels in the project vicinity. Further, operational 
noise levels would not exceed the City’s thresholds at the property lines or exceed ambient levels at 
the surrounding existing and future land uses. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact NOI-2: 
The project would not result in generation of excessive groundborne vibration 
or groundborne noise levels. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Construction of the project may generate perceptible vibration when heavy equipment or impact tools 
(e.g., jackhammers, hoe rams) are used in the vicinity of nearby sensitive land uses. As discussed 
under Impact NOI-1, construction activities would include demolition, site preparation work, 
foundation work, and new building framing and finishing. Impact pile driving (which generates 
substantial vibration) is not proposed as a method of construction.  
 
The nearest historical building identified within the project vicinity is located at 505 S. B Street, 
approximately 150 feet from the nearest edge of the project site. This structure would be subject to 
the conservative (i.e., most protective) 0.08 in/sec PPV threshold. All other buildings surrounding the 
project site would be subject to the standard 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold. 
 
328 of 1252

--- page 329 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
134 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Based on typical vibration levels generated by construction equipment, the vibration levels from 
project construction were estimated from the boundary of the project site, which would represent the 
nearest location for use of vibration generating equipment, at the nearest building facades (refer to 
Appendix K for more information on the methodology used to calculate vibration levels). Table 
4.13-5 below summarizes the summarizes the distances at which the 0.08 in/sec PPV threshold would 
be met for historical buildings and to the 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold for all other buildings.  
 
Table 4.13-5: Vibration Source Levels for Construction Equipment 
Equipment 
PPV at 25 ft. (in/sec) 
Minimum Distance 
to Meet 0.08 in/sec 
PPV (feet) 
Minimum Distance 
to Meet 0.3 in/sec 
PPV (feet) 
Clam Shovel Drop 
0.202 
59 
18 
Hydromill (slurry 
wall) 
In soil 
0.008 
4 
1 
In rock 
0.017 
7 
2 
Vibratory Roller 
0.210 
61 
19 
Hoe Ram 
0.089 
28 
9 
Large bulldozer 
0.089 
28 
9 
Caisson drilling 
0.089 
28 
9 
Loaded trucks 
0.076 
24 
8 
Jackhammer 
0.035 
12 
4 
Small bulldozer 
0.003 
2 
<1 
 
Given that the nearest historical building located at 505 S. B Street is approximately 150 feet from 
the project’s boundary, vibration levels would be at or below 0.03 in/sec PPV at this building, which 
would be less than the 0.08 in/sec threshold. All other surrounding buildings would be located a 
minimum of 80 feet from the project boundaries. Vibration levels at each of these buildings would be 
below the 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold (see Appendix K for estimated vibration levels at surrounding 
buildings). Therefore, the project would not result in generation of excessive vibration levels. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact NOI-3: 
The project would not be located within the vicinity of a private airstrip or an 
airport land use plan or, where such a plan has not been adopted, within two 
miles of a public airport or public use airport. The project would not expose 
people residing or working in the project area to excessive noise levels. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project site is located approximately 4.3 miles southeast of the San Francisco International 
Airport, the nearest airport to the project site. It is located outside of the CNEL noise contour for the 
airport.59 Therefore, future development of the site would not expose people residing or working in 
 
59 City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County, Comprehensive Airport Land Use Compatibility 
Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport. November 2012 
329 of 1252

--- page 330 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
135 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
the project area to excessive airport-related noise levels. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less 
than Significant Impact)] 
 
4.13.3   
Non-CEQA Effects 
Per California Building Industry Association v. Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 62 Cal. 
4th 369 (BIA v. BAAQMD), effects of the environment on the project are not considered CEQA 
impacts. The following discussion is included for informational purposes only because the City of 
San Mateo has policies that address existing noise conditions affecting a proposed project.  
 
The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan (refer to Section 4.13.1.2 Regulatory Framework) includes 
exterior and interior noise thresholds for residential uses. Note, the City’s exterior noise thresholds 
apply only to common use areas and not private balconies, porches, or patios. Additionally, the State 
of California establishes acceptable interior noise limits within residential and non-residential land 
uses. The thresholds that apply to the proposed project are summarized below: 
 
• 
Policy N 1.2 and Table N-1 of the City’s General Plan identifies exterior noise thresholds of 
59 dBA Ldn or below as “normally acceptable” for multi-family residential uses; however, the 
policy further states that common open spaces at multi-family residential buildings intended 
for the use and enjoyment of residents would be limited to a maximum allowable noise level 
of 67 dBA Ldn. 
• 
The City and State’s acceptable interior noise level standard is 45 dBA Ldn or less for the 
proposed residential land uses.  
• 
The Cal Green Code standards specify an interior noise environment attributable to exterior 
sources not to exceed an hourly equivalent noise level (Leq (1-hr)) of 50 dBA in occupied areas 
of nonresidential uses during any hour of operation. 
 
The future noise environment would continue to be primarily influenced by vehicular traffic along 
nearby roadways. Based on information from the Transportation Impact Analysis prepared for the 
project, the future noise level increase experienced at the project site would be increased by two dBA 
Ldn along E. 4th Avenue and increased by one dBA Ldn along E. 5th Avenue.  
 
Future Exterior Noise Environment  
Outdoor areas that would be included as part of the proposed project include a community open 
space area and outdoor dining area on the ground level, office terraces on the third and fourth floors, 
and an office roof deck on the fifth floor. A common use outdoor area for the proposed residences 
would also be included on the fifth floor.  
 
Residential Outdoor Space 
The residential common use area is proposed on the fifth floor, along the building façade facing S. B 
Street. The center of the common use area would be set back approximately 75 feet from the 
centerline of the roadway. Given the height of the common use area and its setback from the 
roadway, noise from S. B Street would be reduced by approximately 20 dBA. Therefore, the future 
exterior noise levels at the center of the fifth-floor common use area would be below 60 dBA Ldn. 
This would be compatible with the City’s 67 dBA Ldn exterior threshold for residential uses. 
330 of 1252

--- page 331 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
136 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Office and Retail Outdoor Space 
The City of San Mateo does not have an exterior noise threshold for office uses. For informational 
purposes, the Noise and Vibration Assessment (refer to Appendix K) calculated the noise levels at 
the exterior balconies reserved for office employees, and determined that the noise level at all 
exterior office and retail uses would be below 70 dBA Ldn and therefore compatible with the future 
noise environment. 
 
Future Interior Noise Environment 
Residential Land Uses 
Standard residential construction provides approximately 15 dBA of exterior-to-interior noise 
reduction, assuming the windows are partially open for ventilation. Standard construction with the 
windows closed provides approximately 20 to 25 dBA of noise reduction in interior spaces. Where 
exterior noise levels range from 60 to 65 dBA Ldn, the inclusion of adequate forced-air mechanical 
ventilation is often the method selected to reduce interior noise levels to acceptable levels by closing 
the windows to control noise. Where noise levels exceed 65 dBA Ldn, forced-air mechanical 
ventilation systems and sound-rated construction methods are normally required. Such methods or 
materials may include a combination of smaller window and door sizes as a percentage of the total 
building façade facing the noise source, sound-rated windows and doors, sound rated exterior wall 
assemblies, and mechanical ventilation so windows may be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion.  
 
The proposed residential units would be located on the fifth floor of the proposed building along the 
façades facing S. B Street and E. 5th Avenue. These units would be set back approximately 85 feet 
from the centerline of S. B Street and approximately 60 feet from the centerline of E. 5th Avenue. At 
these distances, the residential units would be exposed to future exterior noise levels ranging from 65 
to 68 dBA Ldn. Assuming windows to be partially open, future interior noise levels in these units 
would range from 50 to 53 dBA Ldn. 
 
To meet the City and State’s interior noise requirement of 45 dBA Ldn, implementation of noise 
insulation features would be required. 
 
Condition of Approval NOI-4.13.3-1: 
 
The applicant shall specify acoustical treatments in the building permit plans for the superstructure in 
compliance with State Building Codes, the City’s Noise Ordinance, and General Plan. The applicant 
shall also submit an acoustical analysis prepared by a professional acoustical consultant to ensure 
that the design incorporates controls to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower within the 
residential units and to 50 dBA Leq(1-hr) or lower within nonresidential interiors subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall 
conform with any special building construction techniques noted in the project’s acoustical analysis, 
which may include sound-rated windows and doors, sound-rated wall constructions, and acoustical 
caulking. The acoustical analysis and building permit plans shall specify the following noise 
insulation features to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less at residential interiors:  
 
331 of 1252

--- page 332 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
137 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
• 
Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, for all residential units on the project 
site, so that windows can be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion to control interior noise 
and achieve the interior noise standards. 
• 
Preliminary calculations indicate that all residential units would require windows and doors 
with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced-air mechanical ventilation to meet 
the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 
Incorporation of the above conditions of approval would reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn 
or less at residential uses. 
 
Office and Retail Land Uses 
The office and retail components of the project would be located on the first through fourth floors of 
the proposed building. The office and retail spaces would be setback approximately 55 feet from E. 
4th Avenue, 30 feet from E. 5th Avenue, and 40 to 45 feet from S. Ellsworth Avenue and S. B Street. 
At these distances, daytime hourly average noise levels would range from 61 to 75 dBA Leq, with 
day-night average noise levels up to 69 dBA Ldn. 
 
Standard construction materials for offices and commercial retail uses would provide about 25 dBA 
of noise reduction in interior spaces. The inclusion of adequate forced-air mechanical ventilation 
systems is normally required so that windows may be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion and 
would provide an additional five dBA reduction. The standard construction materials in combination 
with forced-air mechanical ventilation would satisfy the daytime threshold of 50 dBA Leq(1-hr).  
 
 
 
332 of 1252

--- page 333 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
138 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
POPULATION AND HOUSING 
4.14.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Housing-Element Law 
State requirements mandating that housing be included as an element of each jurisdiction’s general 
plan is known as housing-element law. The Regional Housing Need Allocation (RHNA) is the state-
mandated process to identify the total number of housing units (by affordability level) that each 
jurisdiction must accommodate in its housing element. California housing-element law requires cities 
to: 1) zone adequate lands to accommodate its RHNA; 2) produce an inventory of sites that can 
accommodate its share of the RHNA; 3) identify governmental and non-governmental constraints to 
residential development; 4) develop strategies and a work plan to mitigate or eliminate those 
constraints; and 5) adopt a housing element and update it on a regular basis.60 The City of San Mateo 
Housing Element and related land use policies were last updated in 2015. The City is currently 
undertaking an update to the Housing Element to cover the upcoming RHNA cycle for 2023-2031.  
 
Regional and Local 
Plan Bay Area 2050 
Plan Bay Area 2050 is a long-range plan for the nine-county San Francisco Bay Area that provides 
strategies that increase the availability of affordable housing, support a more equitable and efficient 
economy, improve the transportation network, and enhance the region’s environmental resilience. 
Plan Bay Area 2050 promotes the development of a variety of housing types and densities within 
identified Priority Development Areas (PDAs). PDAs are areas generally near existing job centers or 
frequent transit that are locally identified for housing and job growth.61 
 
ABAG allocates regional housing needs to each city and county within the San Francisco Bay Area, 
based on statewide goals. These allocations are designed to lay the foundation for Plan Bay Area 
2050’s long-term envisioned growth pattern for the region. ABAG also develops a series of forecasts 
and models to project the growth of population, housing units, and jobs in the Bay Area. ABAG, 
MTC, and local jurisdiction planning staff created the Forecasting and Modeling Report, which is a 
technical overview of the of the growth forecasts and land use models upon which Plan Bay Area 
2050 is based.  
 
 
 
 
 
60 California Department of Housing and Community Development. “Regional Housing Needs Allocation and 
Housing Elements” Accessed April 18, 2022. http://hcd.ca.gov/community-development/housing-
element/index.shtml.  
61 Association of Bay Area Governments and Metropolitan Transportation Commission. Plan Bay Area 2050. 
October 21, 2021. Page 20. 
333 of 1252

--- page 334 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
139 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The San Mateo General Plan contains land use policies that support a wide variety of land uses and 
substantial growth of both the commercial and residential sectors. The following General Plan Land 
Use Policies are relevant to the proposed project: 
 
Policies  
Description 
LU 1.6 
Facilitate housing production by carrying out the goals and policies in the Housing Element. 
LU 1.8 
Facilitate housing production by allowing commercial mixed-use development which includes multi-
family dwellings in all non-residential land use categories except service commercial, 
manufacturing/industrial and parks/open space.  
H 2.2 
Maintain an overall balance of housing and employment within the community over the term of the 
Plan. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
According to the California Department of Finance, the City of San Mateo had a population of 
approximately 103,045 residents as of January 1, 2021.62 The Association of Bay Area Governments 
(ABAG) projects the City’s population will be 133,005 by 2040.63  
 
According to the City’s Land Use Element of the 2030 General Plan, 13 percent of the employed 
population works in Downtown San Mateo. Employment intensification is expected in the 
Downtown through the 2030 planning horizon of the General Plan, with this area projected to contain 
the second highest number of jobs in the City behind the State Route 92 corridor.  
 
The project site is currently occupied by a Draeger’s Market and provides no housing. The Draeger’s 
Market does provide approximately 85 jobs. 
 
4.14.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Induce substantial unplanned population 
growth in an area, either directly (for 
example, by proposing new homes and 
businesses) or indirectly (for example, 
through extension of roads or other 
infrastructure)? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 California Department of Finance. “E-5 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and the State – January 1, 2020 
and 2021.” https://dof.ca.gov/forecasting/demographics/estimates/estimates-e5-2010-2021/ Accessed April 18, 
2022. 
63 Association of Bay Area Governments. “Projections 2040.” Accessed September 26, 2022. Available at: 
http://projections.planbayarea.org/. 
334 of 1252

--- page 335 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
140 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Displace substantial numbers of existing 
people or housing, necessitating the 
construction of replacement housing 
elsewhere? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. The intent of the DASP is to improve 
housing opportunities in the downtown area, and create an environment where housing is combined 
successfully with office and retail uses. The DASP IS/MND stated that the project would allow 
substantial development of downtown housing, including affordable housing. The DASP IS/MND 
determined that the policies included in the DASP and the project-level CEQA review for subsequent 
developments, would reduce population and housing impacts to a less than significant level. The 
General Plan EIR estimated that buildout of the General Plan would result in a Citywide population 
of approximately 119,800 people, 48,360 dwelling units, and 65,300 jobs. As described in Section 
4.14.1.2 Existing Conditions, the City has not yet reached the population estimated at General Plan 
buildout. Therefore, while the Citywide population has grown since adoption of the General Plan and 
DASP, it has not exceeded the projected buildout assumptions. Neither the DASP IS/MND or 
General Plan EIR gave population or housing estimates specific to the City’s downtown area.  
 
Impact POP-1: 
The project would not induce substantial unplanned population growth in an 
area, either directly (for example, by proposing new homes and businesses) or 
indirectly (for example, through extension of roads or other infrastructure). 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
A project can induce substantial population growth by proposing new housing beyond projected or 
planned development levels, generating demand for housing as a result of new businesses, extending 
roads or other infrastructure to previously undeveloped areas, or removing obstacles to population 
growth (e.g., expanding capacity of a wastewater treatment plant beyond that necessary to serve 
planned growth). 
 
The proposed mixed-use building would include 10 multi-family residential units, approximately 
104,722 square-feet of office space, and 17,658 square-feet of retail space. Assuming the California 
Department of Finance’s estimated average of 2.59 persons per household for the City64, the project’s 
residential component would house approximately 26 new residents.65 The proposed retail and office 
components of the project would total approximately 639 339 jobs,66 however, the jobs introduced by 
the project would be partially offset by the loss of jobs from the existing Draeger’s Market. The 
 
64 California Department of Finance. “E-5 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and the State – January 1, 2020 
and 2021.” https://dof.ca.gov/forecasting/demographics/estimates/estimates-e5-2010-2021/ Accessed April 18, 
2022. 
65 10 new multi-family units x 2.59 persons/unit = 25.9 new residents 
66 New jobs were calculated using the following job rates provided by PlaceWorks.; 3 jobs/1,000 square-feet of 
office space, 1.43 jobs/1,000 square-feet of retail space. 
335 of 1252

--- page 336 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
141 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
project would result in a net increase of approximately 254 jobs on-site but is not expected to induce 
a substantial population growth as a result. Additionally, the proposed increase of residents and jobs 
would not be unplanned as the project would be consistent with ABAG projections for population 
growth used by the City of San Mateo in its 2030 General Plan. The project is also consistent with 
the site General Plan designation, zoning, and Genera Plan policies LU-1.6, LU-1.8, and H-2.2. 
Therefore, the project would not induce substantial growth beyond planned levels of development for 
the Downtown area and the City as a whole. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact POP-2: 
The project would not displace substantial numbers of existing people or 
housing, necessitating the construction of replacement housing elsewhere. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
The project site is currently developed with a Draeger’s Market and does not contain any existing 
housing. Therefore, the project would not remove existing housing, displace people, or necessitate 
the construction of replacement housing elsewhere. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No 
Impact)] 
 
 
 
336 of 1252

--- page 337 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
142 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
PUBLIC SERVICES  
4.15.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Government Code Section 66477  
The Quimby Act (included within Government Code Section 66477) requires local governments to 
set aside parkland and open space for recreational purposes. It provides provisions for the dedication 
of parkland and/or payment of fees in lieu of parkland dedication to help mitigate the impacts from 
new residential developments. The Quimby Act authorizes local governments to establish ordinances 
requiring developers of new residential subdivisions to dedicate parks, pay a fee in lieu of parkland 
dedication, or perform a combination of the two. 
 
Government Code Section 65995 through 65998 
California Government Code Section 65996 specifies that an acceptable method of offsetting a 
project’s effect on the adequacy of school facilities is the payment of a school impact fee prior to the 
issuance of a building permit. Government Code Sections 65995 through 65998 set forth provisions 
for the payment of school impact fees by new development by “mitigating impacts on school 
facilities that occur (as a result of the planning, use, or development of real property” (Section 
65996[a]). The legislation states that the payment of school impact fees “are hereby deemed to 
provide full and complete school facilities mitigation” under CEQA (Section 65996[b]).  
 
Developers are required to pay a school impact fee to the school district to offset the increased 
demands on school facilities caused by the proposed residential development project. The school 
district is responsible for implementing the specific methods for mitigating school impacts under the 
Government Code.  
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
Applicable General Plan policies related to public services include, but are not limited to, the 
following listed below. 
 
Policies  
Description 
LU 4.10 
Provide Police Station facilities to meet the facility requirements through 2030. 
LU 4.24 
Maintain fire inspection staffing levels to meet existing needs and the projected 2025 population, 
employment and development, and inspections mandated by other governmental agencies. 
LU 4.25 
Continue fire apparatus replacement and maintenance programs to provide a high state of readiness. 
LU 4.29  
Maintain facilities, equipment, and personnel to provide an effective police force to serve existing and 
future population and employment as identified in the Land Use Element. 
LU 4.30 
Require all developments including parks and public places to incorporate physical security, personal 
safety, and traffic measures to provide a safe environment through application of crime prevention 
through design principles consistent with the City’s Security Ordinance. 
337 of 1252

--- page 338 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
143 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 12.1 
Provide the appropriate mix of parkland that balances the needs of active and passive facilities, that 
are accessible for all residents, and that meet existing and future recreation needs. 
C/OS 12.2 
Adopt and use the Park and Recreation Facility Standards to assess the adequacy of existing facilities, 
designing, developing and redeveloping sites, and acquiring or accepting new sites. 
C/OS 12.3 
Create an asset management plan that identifies the highest and best use of undeveloped parcels or 
underutilized areas within existing parks to insure they are best positioned to meet current and future 
needs and where appropriate, identify options for alternative uses. 
C/OS 12.7 
Preserve existing parklands, open spaces and the golf course for open space and recreational use as 
directed by ordinance. 
C/OS 13.1 
Maintain the park system by a set of maintenance standards that reflect community values and in a 
manner that maintains, promotes, and optimizes positive use, and prevents degradation of facilities and 
ensures that particular equipment and facilities are maintained in a safe condition. 
C/OS 13.2 
Give priority to Capital Improvement Program projects that rehabilitate facilities that have become or 
will become costly to maintain, only marginally usable, or unusable without action. 
C/OS 13.3 
When existing parks undergo reconstruction or rehabilitation the site facilities and layout must be 
reviewed to determine if they effectively meet community needs, and whether modification would 
provide significant benefits in relation to costs. 
C/OS 13.4 
Utilize an infrastructure lifecycle management program that extends the useful life of all park and 
recreation assets and insures that sufficient funds are available for replacement or major rehabilitation.  
C/OS 14.9 
Establish principles for all new or renovated parks to maximize productivity, efficiency and 
community value. 
 
City of San Mateo Parkland Dedication/Fees 
The City of San Mateo has established standards for dedication of land or payment of in-lieu fees for 
park and recreation facilities serving new residential subdivisions (Chapter 26.64 of the City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code). The code sets a standard of two acres per 1,000 residents to be dedicated by 
residential developers, with fees based on the value of real property and the number of residents 
estimated for various unit sizes. The Municipal Code also establishes park impact fees for residential 
units not subject to Chapter 26.64. In Section 13.05.070 of the Municipal Code, the City outlines land 
dedication requirements and fees for residential units that are not subject to Chapter 26.64. Fees and 
land dedications are calculated in the same manner as described in Chapter 26.64, while the 
applicability to residential projects varies. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Fire Protection Services 
In 2019, the fire departments in the Cities of San Mateo, Belmont, and Foster City joined together as 
a Joint Powers Authority and operates as the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMCFD). 
The SMCFD serves nearly 161,000 residents daily with a day-time population (or commuter-adjusted 
population) of approximately 230,000.67 The SMCFD collectively has ten engines and two trucks 
operating out of nine fire stations with a staff of approximately 154 full-time employees. The nearest 
fire station to the project site is Fire Station 21, located at 120 S. Ellsworth Avenue, approximately 
0.2 miles northwest of the project site.  
 
67 City of San Mateo. “Fire Department”. Accessed April 18, 2022. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/74/Fire  
338 of 1252

--- page 339 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
144 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Police Protection Services 
The San Mateo Police Department (SMPD) provides police protection services in the City of San 
Mateo. The main police station is located at 200 Franklin Parkway, approximately 2.6 miles 
southeast from the project site.  
 
Parks 
The City of San Mateo has over 200 acres of open space within the City and miles of paths and 
trails.68 Recreational facilities include neighborhood parks, community parks, recreation/community 
centers, pool, community gardens, a shoreline regional park system, and an estuary lagoon for 
boating. The nearest park to the project site is San Mateo Central Park, located approximately 230 
feet southwest of the project site, at the corner of E. 5th Avenue and Laurel Avenue. San Mateo 
Central Park is a 16.3-acre park that is home to many signature community events such as the Central 
Park Music Series, 4th of July in the Park, Eggstravaganza, and more.69 Available amenities include a 
baseball diamond, the Central Park Mini-Train, the Japanese Garden, picnic areas, a playground, 
rentable spaces, a rose garden, and tennis courts.  
 
Schools 
The City of San Mateo is served by three public school districts: the San Mateo-Foster City School 
District serves grades K–8; the San Mateo Union High School District serves grades 9–12; and the 
County Community College District serves high school graduates and anyone over 18. The assigned 
schools for the project site are Sunnybrae Elementary School, located approximately 0.7 miles 
southeast of the project site, Borel Middle School, approximately 1.2 miles south of the project site, 
and San Mateo High School, approximately 1.1 miles northwest of the project site.70,71  
 
Libraries and Community Centers 
There are three public libraries located within the City of San Mateo. The nearest library to the 
project site is the San Mateo Public Library, located approximately 0.4 miles northeast of the project 
site.  
 
There are six community centers within the City of San Mateo. The nearest community center to the 
project site is the Central Park Recreation Center, located approximately 0.2 miles south of the 
project site, within San Mateo Central Park.  
 
 
68 City of San Mateo. “Parks and Facilities”. Accessed April 18, 2022. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/559/Parks-
and-Facilities  
69 City of San Mateo “Central Park and Japanese Garden”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3319/Central-Park-Japanese-Garden  
70 San Mateo-Foster City School District. “Current Boundary Lookup”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
http://www.schfinder.com/Lookup.aspx?DistrictID=0634920_2021a  
71 San Mateo Union High School District. “School Locator”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.smuhsd.org/Page/2314  
339 of 1252

--- page 340 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
145 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.15.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than Approved 
Project 
Would the project result in substantial 
adverse physical impacts associated with 
the provision of new or physically altered 
governmental facilities, the need for new or 
physically altered governmental facilities, 
the construction of which could cause 
significant environmental impacts, in order 
to maintain acceptable service ratios, 
response times or other performance 
objectives for any of the public services: 
1) Fire Protection? 
2) Police Protection? 
3) Schools? 
4) Parks? 
5) Other Public Facilities? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND stated that buildout of 
the DASP would result in an increased demand upon public facilities. The DASP concluded that the 
need for additional fire and police facilities and staff would be evaluated on an ongoing basis by the 
City. The DASP determined that acquiring new staff and facilities for fire and police protection 
services would result in a financial impact, but is not expected to result in an environmental impact. 
The DASP stated that impacts on schools would be mitigated by fees collected from new 
developments within the downtown area. Similarly, impacts to parks would be mitigated through the 
provision of Park In Lieu fees from residential developments to fund park improvements. The 
General Plan EIR similarly determined that buildout of the General Plan would result in a less than 
significant impact on public services with implementation of General Plan policies, developer fees, 
and project-level CEQA analyses for subsequent individual projects.  
 
Impact PS-1: 
The project would not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated 
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need 
for new or physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of 
which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for 
fire protection services. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
The project would redevelop the existing site with a an approximately 152,533 square-foot mixed use 
building, several times larger than the existing 60,965 square-foot Draeger’s Market, and would 
contain 10 residential units. The project would result in an incremental increase in demand on fire 
protection services within the City of San Mateo given that it would result in a more intensive use of 
the project site. This increase in demand would not prevent the SMCFD from maintaining acceptable 
response times nor would it require the construction of new facilities to ensure adequate service to 
340 of 1252

--- page 341 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
146 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
the surrounding areas. The proposed building would be constructed in compliance with the most 
recent California Building Code and California Fire code to ensure the building is fire safe. In 
addition, the proposed project is not located within a San Mateo County Fire Hazard Safety Zone for 
wildland fires as identified by CalFIRE.72 (Less Than Significant Impact) 
 
Impact PS-2: 
The project would not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated 
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need 
for new or physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of 
which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for 
police protection services. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
The proposed redevelopment of the project site with a mixed-use building that is about two and a half 
times the square footage of the existing Draeger’s Market and contains 10 residential units would 
increase the need for police protection services at the project site. However, this increase in demand 
is not expected to be substantial. The proposed office, retail and residential building and parking 
structure would be constructed in accordance with the City’s Security Ordinance and reviewed by the 
SMPD to ensure appropriate safety features and technologies that minimize or aid in the 
investigation of criminal activity are incorporated into the project design. The estimated increase of 
26 new residents and 254 employees in the Downtown area would not require substantially expanded 
or new police facilities to retain current service ratios and/or response times in the area. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact PS-3: 
The project would not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated 
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need 
for new or physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of 
which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for 
schools. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
Based on the San Mateo – Foster City School District’s student generation rates of 0.10 student per 
residential unit for elementary schools and 0.04 student per unit for middle schools73, the project’s 
10-unit residential component would generate approximately one new student at Sunnybrae 
Elementary School and one new student at Borel Middle School. Using the San Mateo Union High 
School District’s student generation rate of 0.04 high school students per residential unit, the project 
would generate approximately one new student at San Mateo High School. The addition of one new 
student at each of the assigned schools would be a negligible increase in the respective student 
populations and would not result in a need for new or physically altered school facilities.  
 
Additionally, school impact fees will be paid to the affected school districts prior to the issuance of a 
building permit by the City. School districts would then be responsible for implementing the specific 
methods for mitigating school impacts under the Government Code. The responsibility for payment 
 
72 California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County Fire Hazard Safety Zone Map. 
November 2007. 
73 San Mateo – Foster City School Board. Projected Enrollments 2017-18 to 2024-25. March 8, 2018. 
341 of 1252

--- page 342 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
147 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
of school impact fees would lie with the project applicant. By law, payment of the school impact fee 
is considered adequate mitigation and no further mitigation would be required to offset the impact of 
projected increases in student populations from the proposed project. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less Than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact PS-4: 
The project would not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated 
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need 
for new or physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of 
which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for 
parks. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Government Code Section 66477, or the Quimby Act, outlines fees and/or amounts of parkland to be 
dedicated as a condition of approval for new residential developments. The proposed project would 
result in an increase in the local population of approximately 26 residents and would also increase the 
number of workers on-site. New residents and employees of the proposed project could reasonably 
be expected to utilize park and recreation facilities in the vicinity of the site, such as Central Park. 
The demand on these facilities would be marginally increased by the proposed project; however, by 
requiring in-lieu fees to be administered, the proposed project would facilitate the acquisition of 
parkland or improvement of parks in San Mateo in line with General Plan goals.  
 
Conditions of Approval: The following Condition of Approval would be implemented by the 
project to ensure the project does not result in significant impacts to park facilities in the City: 
 
• 
The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of 
dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 
26.64). The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the final map for the park In-lieu 
fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee 
shall be paid prior to the release of the final map for recordation and the park impact fee shall 
be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. If a project with an approved tentative 
map is issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, the applicant shall be 
subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior to the issuance of the first building 
superstructure permit. 
 
By requiring in-lieu fees for park and recreation purposes, the project would have a less than 
significant impact on existing park and recreation facilities in San Mateo. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
342 of 1252

--- page 343 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
148 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact PS-5: 
The project would not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated 
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need 
for new or physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of 
which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for 
other public facilities. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
It can be reasonably expected that new residents and employees of the proposed project would utilize 
nearby libraries and community centers. The demand on libraries and community centers in the area 
would be marginally increased as a result of the project. However, demand for these facilities would 
not necessitate the construction of new facilities, or expansion of existing facilities, to accommodate 
future residents or employees of the project. The existing libraries and community centers in San 
Mateo would be equipped to provide services to new residents and employees of the proposed 
project. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
343 of 1252

--- page 344 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
149 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
RECREATION 
4.16.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Government Code Section 66477 
The Quimby Act (included within Government Code Section 66477) requires local governments to 
set aside parkland and open space for recreational purposes. It provides provisions for the dedication 
of parkland and/or payment of fees in lieu of parkland dedication to help mitigate the impacts from 
new residential developments. The Quimby Act authorizes local governments to establish ordinances 
requiring developers of new residential subdivisions to dedicate parks, pay a fee in lieu of parkland 
dedication, or perform a combination of the two. 
 
Local  
City of San Mateo Parkland Dedication/Fees 
The City of San Mateo has established standards for dedication of land or payment of in-lieu fees for 
park and recreation facilities serving new residential subdivisions (Chapter 26.64 of the City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code). The code sets a standard of two acres per 1,000 residents to be dedicated by 
residential developers, with fees based on the value of real property and the number of residents 
estimated for various unit sizes. The Municipal Code also establishes park impact fees for residential 
units not subject to Chapter 26.64 (not requiring land subdivision). In Section 13.05.070 of the 
Municipal Code, the City outlines land dedication requirements and fees for residential units that are 
not subject to Chapter 26.64. Fees and land dedications are calculated in the same manner as 
described in Chapter 26.64, while the applicability to residential projects varies.  
 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
The following recreation policies, contained in the City’s General Plan, are applicable to the 
proposed project: 
 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 12.1 
Provide the appropriate mix of parkland that balances the needs of active and passive facilities, that 
are accessible for all residents, and that meet existing and future recreation needs. 
C/OS 12.2 
Adopt and use the Park and Recreation Facility Standards to assess the adequacy of existing facilities, 
designing, developing and redeveloping sites, and acquiring or accepting new sites. 
C/OS 12.3 
Create an asset management plan that identifies the highest and best use of undeveloped parcels or 
underutilized areas within existing parks to insure they are best positioned to meet current and future 
needs and where appropriate, identify options for alternative uses. 
C/OS 12.7 
Preserve existing parklands, open spaces and the golf course for open space and recreational use as 
directed by ordinance. 
C/OS 13.1 
Maintain the park system by a set of maintenance standards that reflect community values and in a 
manner that maintains, promotes, and optimizes positive use, and prevents degradation of facilities and 
ensures that particular equipment and facilities are maintained in a safe condition. 
344 of 1252

--- page 345 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
150 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
C/OS 13.2 
Give priority to Capital Improvement Program projects that rehabilitate facilities that have become or 
will become costly to maintain, only marginally usable, or unusable without action. 
C/OS 13.3 
When existing parks undergo reconstruction or rehabilitation the site facilities and layout must be 
reviewed to determine if they effectively meet community needs, and whether modification would 
provide significant benefits in relation to costs. 
C/OS 13.4 
Utilize an infrastructure lifecycle management program that extends the useful life of all park and 
recreation assets and insures that sufficient funds are available for replacement or major rehabilitation.  
C/OS 14.9 
Establish principles for all new or renovated parks to maximize productivity, efficiency and 
community value. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
The City of San Mateo has over 200 acres of open space within the City and miles of paths and 
trails.74 Recreational facilities include neighborhood parks, community parks, recreation/community 
centers, pool, community gardens, a shoreline regional park system, and an estuary lagoon for 
boating. The nearest park to the project site is San Mateo Central Park, located approximately 230 
feet southwest of the project site, at the corner of E. 5th Avenue and Laurel Avenue. San Mateo 
Central Park is a 16.3-acre park that is home to many signature community events such as the Central 
Park Music Series, 4th of July in the Park, Eggstravaganza, and more.75 Available amenities include a 
baseball diamond, the Central Park Mini-Train, the Japanese Garden, picnic areas, a playground, 
rentable spaces, a rose garden, and tennis courts. The project site does not currently provide any 
recreational opportunities.  
 
4.16.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
1) Would the project increase the use of 
existing neighborhood and regional 
parks or other recreational facilities 
such that substantial physical 
deterioration of the facility will occur 
or be accelerated? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Does the project include recreational 
facilities or require the construction or 
expansion of recreational facilities 
which might have an adverse physical 
effect on the environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
74 City of San Mateo. “Parks and Facilities”. Accessed April 18, 2022. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/559/Parks-
and-Facilities  
75 City of San Mateo “Central Park and Japanese Garden”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3319/Central-Park-Japanese-Garden  
345 of 1252

--- page 346 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
151 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that 
impacts to parks would be mitigated through the provision of Park In Lieu fees from residential 
developments to fund park improvements. Similarly, the General Plan EIR also determined that 
impacts to parks and recreation facilities would be mitigated through the provision of Park In Lieu 
fees and General Plan policies.  
 
Impact REC-1: 
The project would not increase the use of existing neighborhood and regional 
parks or other recreational facilities such that substantial physical 
deterioration of the facility would occur or be accelerated. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The project would marginally increase the use of exiting local parks and recreational facilities in San 
Mateo. Future residents and employees of the proposed project could reasonably be expected to 
utilize nearby parks such as Central Park to meet their recreational needs. The project would increase 
the local population by approximately 26 persons and would introduce new workers to the area. 
Thus, the project would place an additional demand on parks and recreational facilities in the area. 
As discussed in Section 4.15, Public Services of this Addendum, in-lieu fees would be applied to the 
proposed project to offset the additional demand on existing facilities. It is not anticipated that the 
additional demand placed on existing park and recreational facilities would result in substantial 
physical deterioration of these facilities. Park fees collected from the project would be used to 
maintain and upgrade affected park facilities, as necessary. Thus, the impact would be less than 
significant. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact REC-2: 
The project does not include recreational facilities or require the construction 
or expansion of recreational facilities which might have an adverse physical 
effect on the environment. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
The project would also include an approximately 2,070 square-foot community open space and an 
approximately 1,450 square-foot outdoor dining space both located at the western corner of the 
project site, at the intersection of E. 4th Avenue and S. Ellsworth Avenue. The community open space 
and outdoor dining space would include landscaping and outdoor seating. The construction of the 
community open space and outdoor dining space have been included in the environmental analysis of 
this Addendum and would be subject to the construction-related conditions of approval and 
mitigation measures that have been described in previous sections (see Air Quality, Water Quality, 
and Noise). Therefore, construction of the proposed community open space and outdoor dining space 
would not have an adverse physical effect on the environment. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
346 of 1252

--- page 347 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
152 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
TRANSPORTATION 
The following discussion is based, in part, on a Transportation Impact Analysis prepared for the 
project by Kittelson & Associates dated October 2022. A copy of this report is included in Appendix 
L of this Addendum.  
 
4.17.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Senate Bill 743 
SB 743 establishes criteria for determining the significance of transportation impacts using a vehicle 
miles traveled (VMT) metric intended to promote the reduction of GHG emissions, the development 
of multimodal transportation networks, and a diversity of land uses. Specifically, SB 743 requires 
analysis of VMT in determining the significance of transportation impacts. Local jurisdictions were 
required by OPR to implement a VMT policy by July 1, 2020. 
 
SB 743 did not authorize OPR to set specific VMT impact thresholds, but it did direct OPR to 
develop guidelines for jurisdictions to utilize. CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3(b)(1) describes 
factors that might indicate whether a development project’s VMT may be significant. Notably, 
projects located within 0.50 mile of transit should be considered to have a less than significant 
transportation impact based on OPR guidance. 
 
Regional  
Regional Transportation Plan 
MTC is the transportation planning, coordinating, and financing agency for the nine-county San 
Francisco Bay Area, including San Mateo County. MTC is charged with regularly updating the 
Regional Transportation Plan, a comprehensive blueprint for the development of mass transit, 
highway, airport, seaport, railroad, bicycle, and pedestrian facilities in the region. MTC and ABAG 
adopted Plan Bay Area 2050 in October 2021, which includes a Regional Transportation Plan to 
guide regional transportation investment for revenues from federal, state, regional and local sources 
through 2050. 
 
City/County Association of Governments 
The City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) works on issues that 
affect the quality of life in general: transportation, air quality, stormwater runoff, airport/land use 
compatibility planning, hazardous waste, solid waste and recycling. C/CAG, as the Congestion 
Management Agency for San Mateo County, is required to prepare and adopt a Congestion 
Management Program (CMP) on a biennial basis. The purpose of the CMP is to identify strategies to 
respond to future transportation needs, develop procedures to alleviate and control congestion, and 
promote countywide solutions. The CMP is required to be consistent with the MTC planning process 
that includes regional goals, policies, and projects for the Regional Transportation Improvement 
347 of 1252

--- page 348 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
153 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Program.76 A project is required to submit a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) plan in 
compliance with the CMP guidelines if the project will generate 100 net new average daily trips 
(ADT) to the CMP roadway network. 
 
Considering existing trips from the market, it is anticipated that the project would result in a net 
decrease in peak hour vehicle trips. Therefore, an analysis in accordance with C/CAG’s CMP 
guidelines is not required. 
 
Local 
San Mateo County Comprehensive Bicycle Route Plan 
The San Mateo County Comprehensive Bicycle Route Plan was written by the C/CAG, the Bicycle 
and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, and individual cities and agencies. The intent of the plan is to 
provide a comprehensive bicycle network for San Mateo County and adjacent communities, and to 
improve inter-city and regional travel for bicycles. The plan includes existing roadways within San 
Mateo County, including roadways in the project area. 
 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan contains goals and policies related to traffic and 
circulation patterns that are relevant to the proposed project. The General Plan includes goals and 
policies relating to traffic fees for new developments, required consistency with alternative 
transportation plans, and parking standards, amongst others. General Plan policies and elements that 
are relevant to the proposed mixed-use project are listed below: 
 
Policies  
Description 
C 2.1 
Maintain a Level of Service no worse than mid LOS D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the 
acceptable Level of Service for all intersections within the City. 
C 2.4 
Require new developments to pay for on-site improvements to meet the needs of development and 
their proportionate share of the costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City of San 
Mateo. Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements equitably. 
The off-site improvements will include intersection and street improvements to maintain intersection 
levels of service, traffic safety improvements and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle 
trips such as bicycle system enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction measures. 
C 2.5 
Require site-specific traffic studies for development project where there may be a substantial impact 
on the local street system. Traffic impacts caused by a development project are considered to be 
unacceptable and warrant mitigation if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative 
intersection level of service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C-2.1; where there 
may be safety hazards created; or where there may be other substantial impacts on the circulation 
system. 
C 2.7 
In addition to paying the transportation impact fee, a development project may be required to fund off-
site circulation improvements which are needed as a result of project generated traffic if: a) The level 
of service at the intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average delay of more than 45 seconds) 
when the project is added, and b) An intersection that operates below its level of service standard 
under the base year conditions experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and c) The 
needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City Capital 
Improvement Program from the date of application approval. 
 
76 C/CAG of San Mateo County. “Congestion Management”. 2017. 
348 of 1252

--- page 349 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
154 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
C 4.1 
Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a 
fully-connected safe and logical bikeways system; support the City’s Sustainable Transportation 
Actions; and coordinate with the countywide system. 
C 4.4 
Implement the Pedestrian Master Plan’s recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a 
walkable environment in San Mateo and support the City’s Sustainable Transportation Actions. 
C 4.5 
Continue to require as a condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and 
wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged sidewalks. Require that 
utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on sidewalks be placed and maintained to 
permit wheelchair access and pedestrian use. Increase awareness of existing trails and routes by 
promoting these amenities to residents. 
C 4.6 
Continue to assess and improve wheelchair access throughout the City. Install wheelchair ramps or 
take other corrective measures where most needed in accordance with the established Citywide 
Wheelchair Program. 
C 4.7 
Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of intersection and other roadway 
improvements. 
C 5.1 
a) Adopt parking requirements to provide adequate parking supply as a condition of development 
approval. 
b) Adopt parking requirements to provide adequate parking supply for change and/or expansion of 
land use resulting in increased parking demand. 
C 5.2 
Seek new parking garage sites for public acquisition within the CPID adequate to accommodate the 
parking needs of new development. Allow in-lieu parking fees within the CPID as a substitute for 
providing required non-residential parking on-site. 
C 6.6 
Reduce fuel consumption and vehicle emissions for trips originating in or destined for the City of San 
Mateo by providing incentives for the purchase and use of fuel efficient vehicles such as recharging 
station for electric vehicles or preferential parking for carpools, hybrids, and alternative fuel vehicles 
and develop a way to make this action enforceable and by providing discounted parking rates for 
carpools, hybrids, and other vehicles that help reduce CO2 emissions. 
 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
The City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan was initially adopted in October 2011. It contains goals 
and objectives to provide a blueprint for a citywide system of bicycle facilities to allow for safe, 
efficient, and convenient bicycle travel within the City and to regional destinations in the Bay Area. 
The purpose of the plan is to build on the success of previous bicycle infrastructure improvements by 
enhancing and expanding the existing bikeway network, connecting gaps, addressing constrained 
areas, and providing for greater local and regional connectivity. 
 
The City has recently undergone a process to update the Bicycle Master Plan. The draft version of 
the updated Plan was released in February 2020 and contained an updated list of proposed bicycle 
facilities. Along the project frontage, 5th Avenue is proposed for a Class II bike lane. The 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by City Council on April 6, 2020.  
 
City of San Mateo Pedestrian Plan 
The City of San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan was adopted in April 2012. It contains goals, 
objectives and policies to improve the pedestrian environment and increase the number of walking 
trips in San Mateo. The purpose of the Plan is to prioritize pedestrian improvements through a needs 
analysis of the City’s network to identify gaps in the network and potential improvements. The Plan 
applies prioritization criteria to the output of the needs assessment to establish rankings for 
infrastructure improvements as well as programmatic recommendations. 
349 of 1252

--- page 350 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
155 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
City of San Mateo Sustainable Streets Plan 
The City of San Mateo finalized its Sustainable Streets Plan in February of 2015; this Plan is not 
formally adopted so it serves as a guideline only. The Plan outlines the City’s vision of a transition to 
a citywide roadway network that caters to all forms of transportation, emphasizing a shift in focus 
from automobiles to alternative forms of transportation. The Plan addresses street classification 
systems, street design guidelines, transportation system performance measures, and transportation 
demand management for future development within San Mateo. Included within the Plan are 
transportation demand management recommendations for new development within the Downtown 
Area Plan boundaries. New developments within the boundaries of the Downtown Area Plan are 
recommended to prepare a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) plan that encourages a 25% 
trip reduction off of baseline trip generation numbers for the site proposed for development. The 
proposed project is within the boundaries of the Downtown Area Plan. A TDM plan has been 
prepared for the project by Steer Group and is included as an attachment to this Addendum as 
Appendix M. 
 
 
Existing Conditions 
Roadway Network 
Regional access to the project is via State Route 82 (El Camino Real), and US 101 via 4th Avenue 
and 5th Avenue. Local access is also provided via B Street and Ellsworth Avenue. These roadways 
are described below.  
 
State Route 82 (El Camino Real) is a four-to six lane state highway in California, serving as a major 
north-south corridor in the Peninsula. It extends from Interstate 880 (I-880) in San José at the south 
end to I-280 in San Francisco at the north end. It runs parallel to the Caltrain line along much of the 
route. Access to and from the project site is provided via signalized intersections at 4th Avenue and 
5th Avenue. 
 
US 101 is an eight-to ten lane state highway in California, serving as the primary coastal route 
providing access to the San Francisco Bay Area. It is also the primary commuting route between San 
Francisco and San José. It extends from Los Angeles at the south end to Tumwater, Washington at 
the north end. Access to and from the project site is provided via interchanges at 3rd Avenue and 4th 
Avenue to the northeast of the project site. 
 
4th Avenue is an east-west, three to four-lane arterial roadway extending from Dartmouth Road on 
the west and transitioning into J Hart Clinton Drive in the east after crossing US 101. Arterial roads 
link residential and commercial districts and serve shorter through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the 
project site, 4th Avenue has three to four lanes. The road is directly adjacent to the project site and is 
proposed to provide direct access to the project site. 
 
5th Avenue is an east-west, two to three-lane arterial roadway extending from Virginia Avenue on the 
west and transitioning into Amphlett Boulevard in the east. Arterial roads link residential and 
commercial districts and serve shorter through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, 5th 
Avenue has two lanes. The road is directly adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide 
direct access. 
 
350 of 1252

--- page 351 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
156 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
B Street is a north-south, two-lane collector roadway extending from Tilton Ave on the north and 
transitioning into South Boulevard on the south. Collector roads link arterial roads to local roads and 
serve some through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, B Street has two lanes. The road 
is directly adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide direct access. 
 
Ellsworth Avenue is a north-south, two-lane collector roadway extending from Bellevue Avenue on 
the north to 5th Avenue on the south. Collector roads link arterial roads to local roads and serve some 
through traffic needs. The road is directly adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide 
direct access. 
 
Transit Service 
Existing transit services in the project vicinity are provided by the San Mateo County Transit District 
(SamTrans) and Caltrain. There are five bus routes in the project vicinity (Route 397, 250, 292, 295, 
and El Camino Real) operated by SamTrans. The nearest bus stop to the project site is located at the 
intersections of 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue and 4th Avenue/San Mateo Drive. Three additional bus 
routes (school-day only), Route 53, 55, and 59, also operate in the project vicinity.  
 
Commuter rail service between San Francisco and Gilroy is provided by Caltrain. The project site is 
located approximately 0.3 miles away from the San Mateo Downtown Caltrain Station. Currently, 
Caltrain provides northbound and southbound service at this station at approximately a half-hour 
frequency during the weekday and weekend AM and PM commute hours, midday, and at nights.  
 
Bicycle Facilities  
Bicycle infrastructure in close proximity to the project site includes a Class II bike lane77 on Laurel 
Avenue, south of 5th Avenue, Class III bike lanes of 5th Avenue, Class III bike lanes along B Street, 
and bike lanes on 3rd Avenue in both directions west of Dartmouth Road. The City’s 2020 Bicycle 
Master Plan proposes making a connection on 3rd Avenue from Dartmouth Road to El Camino Real 
with a Class II bike lane and a connection from El Camino Real to the US 101 interchange with a 
Class IV bike lane. The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan also proposes upgrading the corridor on 5th 
Avenue from Dartmouth Road to Claremont Street with a Class II bike lane and the corridor from 
Claremont Street to Amphlett Boulevard with a Class III bike route.78  
 
Pedestrian Facilities 
Pedestrian facilities consist of sidewalks, crosswalks, and pedestrian signals at signalized 
intersections. In the project vicinity, sidewalks exist along both sides of 4th Avenue, 5th Avenue, B 
Street, and one side of Ellsworth Avenue through the site, providing pedestrian access to and from 
the project site. Marked crosswalks with pedestrian signal heads and push buttons are provided at the 
B Street/4th Avenue, Ellsworth Avenue/4th Avenue, and B Street/5th Avenue intersections. The 
overall network of sidewalks and crosswalks in the study area has excellent connectivity and 
provides pedestrians with safe routes. 
 
77 Class II bike lanes provide a restricted right-of-way designated lane for the exclusive or semi-exclusive use of 
bicycles with through travel by motor vehicles or pedestrians prohibited, but with crossflows by pedestrians and 
motorists permitted. 
78 Class III bike routes provide a right-of-way designated by signs or permanent markings and shared with motorists. 
351 of 1252

--- page 352 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
157 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
4.17.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Conflict with a program plan, ordinance 
or policy addressing the circulation 
system, including transit, roadways, 
bicycle lanes and pedestrian facilities? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) For a land use project, conflict or be 
inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15064.3, subdivision (b)? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Substantially increase hazards due to a 
geometric design feature (e.g., sharp 
curves or dangerous intersections) or 
incompatible land uses (e.g., farm 
equipment)? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Result in inadequate emergency access? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND evaluated transportation impacts based on 
intersection level-of-service (LOS) related to increased congestion resulting from new project trips, 
and determined that buildout of the DASP would have a less than significant transportation impact. 
However, per SB 743, the CEQA Guidelines have since been updated to utilize VMT as the primary 
metric for transportation analysis, rather than LOS. Therefore, the discussion below is based on the 
current VMT thresholds employed by the City in evaluating new development.  
 
Impact TRN-1: 
The project would not conflict with a program, plan, ordinance, or policy 
addressing the circulation system, including transit, roadways, bicycle lanes, 
and pedestrian facilities. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Transit Services 
Access to existing transit facilities and services would not change with implementation of the 
proposed project. The project would likely generate new transit users at the project site given the 
proposed office and residential uses that would be added to the site. However, it is not anticipated 
that the project would generate a substantial number of new transit users such that the existing transit 
services and facilities would be exacerbated and result in deterioration.  
 
Roadways 
The project would include roadway improvements such as curb replacements and extensions, 
sidewalk replacements, adding ADA curb ramps along all frontages, and adding street lighting along 
all project frontages. The project would retain a total of approximately 12 of the existing on-street 
352 of 1252

--- page 353 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
158 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
parking spaces along the S. Ellsworth and E. 4th Avenue. These changes to the existing roadways 
would be minor and would not conflict with any local transportation program, plans, ordinances, or 
policies.  
 
Bicycle Facilities  
The project would promote biking as a means of transportation to the project site by providing 
bicycle parking on-site. The project would include a total of 38 bicycle spaces. Out of the 38 total 
bicycle spaces, 21 bicycle storage spaces would be long-term spaces split between two bicycle 
storage rooms within the proposed building. The remaining 17 bicycle spaces would be short-term 
spaces provided via ground-level bike racks on all four sides of the proposed building. The project 
would not interfere with access or circulation for bicycle facilities. Therefore, the project would not 
conflict with the City’s 2020 Bicycle Master Plan.  
 
Pedestrian Facilities 
Pedestrians can access the site from entries on 4th Avenue (to the retail use), Ellsworth Avenue (to 
the office), B Street (to the residential lobby), and 5th Avenue (to the parking garage). The project site 
proposes sidewalks along all the parcel boundaries as well as a pedestrian plaza and parklets at 4th 
Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue. The project would not conflict with the City’s Pedestrian Master 
Plan.  
 
Transportation Demand Management 
TDM is a combination of services, incentives, facilities, and actions that reduce single-occupant 
vehicle trips to help relieve traffic congestion, parking demand, and air pollution. The purpose of a 
TDM Plan is to propose trip reduction strategies with the goal of reducing overall vehicular trip 
making activity in the area. The City’s Sustainable Street Plan provides transportation demand 
management guidelines for new development within the Downtown Area Plan boundaries. New 
developments within the boundaries of the Downtown Specific Planning Area are recommended to 
prepare a TDM plan that encourages a 25 percent trip reduction below project trip generation 
numbers for the site proposed for development. Additionally, proposed developments in the 
Downtown Area would be recommended to participate in the Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) for the Downtown Area if established in the future, as well as submitting a trip 
reduction and parking management plan, and preparing an annual monitoring plan. 
 
The project site is within the boundaries of the Downtown Area. The project’s TDM plan includes 
measures such as designation of a TDM Coordinator, provision of new resident and employee 
packets (which would include a loaded Clipper Card as well as information on transportation 
services), multimodal wayfinding signage, TDM communications via bulletin boards and online 
resources, a carshare program, preferential carpool and vanpool parking, and provision of subsidized 
transit passes. The project TDM Plan is included in Appendix M of this Addendum. [Same Impact 
as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
353 of 1252

--- page 354 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
159 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact TRN-2: 
The project would not conflict or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15064.3, subdivision (b). [Same Impact as Approved Project (No 
Impact)] 
 
The OPR technical advisory and the City of San Mateo VMT/Transportation Impact Assessment 
Guidelines establishes screening criteria for developments that are expected to cause a less-than-
significant transportation impact under CEQA and are not required to prepare further VMT analysis. 
The relevant screening criteria are described below: 
 
• 
High Quality Transit Area – Projects located within a half mile of an existing or planned 
high-quality transit corridor or major transit station are presumed to have a less than 
significant impact if they also the following additional criteria: 1) is high density (minimum 
floor area ratio [FAR] of 0.75), 2) does not exceed parking requirements, 3) is consistent with 
Plan Bay Area, and 4) does not replace affordable housing units with a smaller number of 
moderate – or high-income residential units.  
 
The project would satisfy the screening criteria listed above. The San Mateo Caltrain station is 
located at 385 1st Avenue, approximately 0.3 miles northwest of the project site. The proposed FAR 
is 3.1 and the project would provide approximately 239 parking spaces, less than the 306 parking 
spaces required by the City. The project would not be inconsistent with Plan Bay Area and would not 
replace any affordable housing units. Therefore, the project would qualify for the High-Quality 
Transit screening criteria. For these reasons, the project is presumed to have a less than significant 
VMT impact. Additionally, as disclosed below in Table 4.17-1, the project would result in fewer trips 
than currently generated by the existing market operating on the site. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (No Impact)] 
 
Impact TRN-3: 
The project would not substantially increase hazards due to a geometric 
design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or incompatible 
uses (e.g., farm equipment). [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Vehicle Access 
Access to the proposed basement parking garage would be provided via a 24-foot driveway fronting 
the north side of 5th Avenue. A clearance of six feet measured from the curb return of the proposed 
driveway would be needed to achieve the Caltrans sight distance requirements.79 The 5th Avenue 
roadway segments that approach the proposed garage driveway do not have severe grade or curves. 
The project proposes to plant new trees along 5th Avenue, including on either side of the garage 
entrance and exit. This landscaping would be maintained appropriately to ensure it does not impede 
sight distance and roadway visibility. 
 
 
79 Sight distance is the continuous length of the roadway ahead, visible to the roadway user. According to the 
Caltrans Highway Design Manual, the minimum standards for stopping sight distance are related to the design speed 
for motorists (Table 201.1 Sight Distance Standards).  
354 of 1252

--- page 355 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
160 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Loading Zone and Garbage Trucks 
The project proposes to expand the existing the 105 ft commercial loading zone on B Street to 120 
feet. Garbage trucks would use B Street and Ellsworth Avenue to access the proposed trash collector 
areas. Given that the existing commercial loading zone would be retained, the project would not 
increase any hazards related to truck loading.  
 
The project does not propose any incompatible uses in relation to the project site or the surrounding 
area. Therefore, the project would not increase hazards due to a geometric design feature or 
incompatible uses. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact TRN-4: 
The project would not result in inadequate emergency access. [Same Impact 
as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The nearest fire station (San Mateo Fire Department Station #21) is located approximately 0.2 miles 
west of the project site at 120 S Ellsworth Ave. The proposed plans indicate that the bulb outs at each 
intersection surrounding the project site can accommodate the turning radius of a fire truck. 
Therefore, the project would not result in inadequate emergency access. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
4.17.3   
Non-CEQA Effects 
The City has traditionally used level of service or LOS (i.e., vehicle delay or congestion) as the basis 
for determining a project’s traffic impacts. However, with the passage of SB 743 and the adoption of 
related Guidelines implementing SB 743 (see Guidelines Section 15604.3, the City’s approach to 
evaluating project traffic impacts under CEQA must change. SB 743, amending state law (CEQA), 
takes precedence over the City’s General Plan, and now requires that LOS no longer be used after 
December 28, 2018. Upon the December 28, 2018 effective date of the new Guidelines, this project’s 
LOS traffic impacts (i.e., increased vehicle delay) are required to be considered insignificant under 
CEQA. The following discussion is provided for informational purposes only to disclose how the 
project would comply with the City’s LOS policies and whether any physical roadway improvements 
are needed to maintain desired LOS, so that those physical improvements can also be evaluated in 
this Addendum.  
 
Trip Generation 
Vehicle trips generated by the proposed project were estimated using the trip rates published in the 
Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition for Supermarket 
(Land Use 850), General Office Building (Land Use 710), and Affordable Housing (Land Use 223). 
The existing Draeger’s market was included as existing trip credits as it currently generates trips to 
and from the site. Pass-by trips80 were also applied to the existing supermarket use. 
 
 
80 Pass-by: Drivers already on their way to a destination that stop temporarily at the Project Site without a major 
roadway diversion are considered making “pass-by” trips. Land Use Code 850 (Supermarket) is the only land use 
code in ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition for which a pass-by rate was supplied. The 24 percent average 
pass-by rate for this land use was only applicable for Weekday PM Peak, resulting in a reduction of 39 trips. 
355 of 1252

--- page 356 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
161 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.17-1 provides a summary of the proposed project’s trip generation. As shown in the table, the 
net new trip generation would be a reduction of 3,645 average daily weekday trips with a reduction 
of 135 new trips occurring the morning peak and a reduction of 231 new trips occurring the afternoon 
peak. 
 
Table 4.17-1: Project Trip Generation Estimates 
Land Use 
Size 
Weekday 
Daily 
Trips 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Proposed Project 
Retail 
(Supermarket) 
17.6 ksf 
1,891 
48 
40 
88 
82 
82 
164 
Office Space 
104.7 
ksf 
1,208 
77 
11 
88 
15 
76 
91 
Affordable 
Housing 
10 DU 
38 
1 
4 
5 
2 
2 
4 
Internal Capture* 
-233 
-6 
-6 
-12 
-11 
-11 
-22 
Pass-by Reduction (24% 
PM only) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-18 
-18 
-36 
Total Proposed Project 
Trips 
2,904 
120 
49 
169 
70 
131 
201 
Existing Conditions 
Retail 
(Supermarket) 
61 ksf 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
284 
284 
568 
Pass-by Reduction (24% 
PM only) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-68 
-68 
-136 
Total Existing Trips 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
216 
216 
432 
Net New Project Trips 
-3,645 
-47 
-88 
-135 
-146 
-84 
-231 
Notes: ksf = kilo-square feet 
DU = dwelling unit 
* Internal Capture: Trips that occur between land-uses on a multi-use project site and which can be made without 
using the off-site street network are considered “internal trips”. Internal trips for this project can be made by 
walking between uses. Internal capture was estimated using methodology from NCHRP Report 684 – Enhancing 
Internal Trip Capture for Mixed-Use Developments. 
 
Intersection Levels of Service 
Level of service (LOS) describes the operating conditions experienced by motorists. LOS is a 
qualitative measure of the effect of a number of factors, including speed and travel time, traffic 
interruptions and delay, freedom to maneuver, driving comfort, and convenience. LOS A through 
LOS F covers the entire range of traffic operations that might occur. Motorists using a facility that 
356 of 1252

--- page 357 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
162 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
operates at a LOS A experience very little delay, while those using a facility that operates at a LOS F 
will experience long delays. 
 
Per the City’s General Plan Circulation Element Policy C 2.7 (Section E), all projects are required, at 
a minimum, to pay a transportation mitigation fee. The transportation mitigation fee is used to fund 
planned transportation improvements that are identified in the City of San Mateo Traffic Mitigation 
Program. In addition to paying the transportation impact fee, a development project may be required 
to fund off-site circulation improvements which are needed as a result of project generated traffic if: 
 
• 
The LOS at a signalized intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average delay of more 
than 45 seconds) or the LOS at an unsignalized intersection drops from LOS E or better to 
LOS F (average delay of more than 50 seconds) when the project traffic is added, and 
• 
An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the base year 
conditions experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and 
• 
The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City 
Capital Improvement Program from the date of application approval. 
 
The following five intersections were analyzed for the project:  
 
1. E. 5th Avenue and Laurel Avenue 
2. E. 5th Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue 
3. E. 5th Avenue and B Street 
4. E. 4th Avenue and B Street 
5. E. 4th Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue 
 
Existing traffic volumes were estimated using historical counts and Streetlight data, as collecting new 
turning movement volumes at the study intersections was not recommended due to COVID-19 
conditions. However, due to unavailability of accurate multimodal data at E. 5th Avenue/Laurel 
Avenue, new counts were collected at this intersection. Baseline conditions were estimated by adding 
the projected volumes from approved, but not yet completed land use development and transportation 
projects to existing peak hour volumes for the project completion year. Cumulative conditions were 
estimated by adding a regional growth to existing traffic volumes.  
 
A summary of the project’s impacts to the intersections’ levels of service is provided in Table 4.17-2. 
Based on the City’s LOS standards, the project would not cause operational deficiencies at any of the 
study intersections under baseline or cumulative scenarios.  
 
 
357 of 1252

--- page 358 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
163 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Table 4.17-2: Intersection LOS Summary 
Intersection 
Peak 
Hour 
Existing 
Baseline  
Cumulative (2040) 
No Project 
No Project* 
With Project 
No Project* 
With Project 
Avg. 
Delay 
(sec) 
LOS 
Avg. 
Delay 
(sec) 
LOS 
Delay 
(sec) 
LOS 
Delay 
(sec) 
LOS 
Delay 
(sec) 
LOS 
E. 5th Ave/Laurel Ave 
(TWSC) 
AM 
15.1 
C 
13.3 
B 
14.4 
B 
13.7 
B 
15.0 
C 
PM 
15.3 
C 
13.0 
B 
14.3 
B 
13.5 
B 
15.0 
C 
E. 5th Avenue/Laurel 
Ave (TWSC) 
AM 
12.2 
B 
11.3 
B 
11.7 
B 
11.5 
B 
12.0 
B 
PM 
12.7 
B 
11.2 
B 
11.9 
B 
11.7 
B 
12.3 
B 
E. 5th Ave/B Street 
(Signalized) 
AM 
14.2 
B 
14.3 
B 
14.6 
B 
11.5 
B 
11.9 
B 
PM 
14.9 
B 
15.3 
B 
15.6 
B 
14.1 
B 
14.8 
B 
E. 4th Ave/B Street 
(Signalized) 
AM 
9.7 
A 
9.7 
A 
9.7 
A 
10.8 
B 
11.0 
B 
PM 
9.5 
A 
10.2 
B 
10.3 
B 
11.5 
B 
11.7 
B 
E. 4th Ave/Ellsworth 
Ave (Signalized) 
AM 
10.1 
B 
7.1 
A 
7.1 
A 
7.6 
A 
7.6 
A 
PM 
12.4 
B 
9.2 
A 
9.2 
A 
10.7 
B 
10.7 
B 
*The Baseline No Project and Cumulative No Project conditions assume that while the proposed mixed-use project is not developed, the existing Draeger’s 
Market would be demolished. Hence, some Baseline No Project and Cumulative No Project conditions have less vehicle delay than existing conditions. 
Given that the project would result in a negative net trip generation, some project conditions also result in less vehicle delay than existing conditions. 
 
358 of 1252

--- page 359 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
164 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES 
4.18.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
Assembly Bill 52 
AB 52, effective July 2015, established a new category of resources for consideration by public 
agencies called Tribal Cultural Resources (TCRs). AB 52 requires lead agencies to provide notice of 
projects to tribes that are traditionally and culturally affiliated with the geographic area if they have 
requested to be notified. Where a project may have a significant impact on a tribal cultural resource, 
consultation is required until the parties agree to measures to mitigate or avoid a significant effect on 
a tribal cultural resource or until it is concluded that mutual agreement cannot be reached.  
 
 
 Under AB 52, TCRs are defined as follows: 
• 
Sites, features, places, cultural landscapes, sacred places, and objects with cultural value to a 
California Native American tribe that are also either: 
o Included or determined to be eligible for inclusion in the California Register of 
Historic Resources, or 
o Included in a local register of historical resources as defined in Public Resources 
Code Section 5020.1(k). 
• 
A resource determined by the lead agency to be a TCR.  
 
 
Existing Conditions 
As previously described in Section 4.5 Cultural Resources, the project site is considered to be within 
a zone of medium sensitivity to archaeological resources, including TCRs, due to its proximity to San 
Mateo Creek, which is located approximately 0.3-mile north of the project site at its nearest point. 
However, as discussed in Section 4.9 Hazards and Hazardous Materials, the site has undergone 
substantial disturbance from installation of fuel tanks, removal of the tanks and remediation of the 
soil, and construction of the basement level parking garage currently in use on the site, which extends 
to 12 below grade. For these reasons, the site has been substantially disturbed and any resources in 
the shallow surface soils may have been disturbed by prior site activities. Nonetheless, the potential 
for cultural resources to be present on the site remains. A Cultural Resources Review was prepared 
for the project by Basin Research Associates in May 2022. During the preparation of the Review, the 
NAHC was contacted for a review of the Sacred Lands Inventory. The results of the NAHC’s Sacred 
Lands File review came back negative, indicating that there are no known TCRs on-site. 
Additionally, NAHC provided a contact list of eight locally knowledgeable Native American 
individuals/organizations to Basin Research Associates. Basin Research Associates sent letters and/or 
emails to these Native American individuals/organizations to determine if any potential resources of 
interest to the Native American community were present. However, no responses were received, and 
therefore, no resources are known or expected to be present on the site.  
 
359 of 1252

--- page 360 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
165 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
4.18.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same 
Impact as 
Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project cause a substantial adverse 
change in the significance of a tribal cultural 
resource, defined in Public Resources Code 
Section 21074 as either a site, feature, place, 
cultural landscape that is geographically 
defined in terms of the size and scope of the 
landscape, sacred place, or object with 
cultural value to a California Native 
American tribe, and that is: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Listed or eligible for listing in the 
California Register of Historical 
Resources, or in a local register of 
historical resources as defined in Public 
Resources Code Section 5020.1(k)? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) A resource determined by the lead 
agency, in its discretion and supported by 
substantial evidence, to be significant 
pursuant to criteria set forth in 
subdivision (c) of Public Resources Code 
Section 5024.1? In applying the criteria 
set forth in subdivision (c) of Public 
Resources Code Section 5024.1, the lead 
agency shall consider the significance of 
the resource to a California Native 
American tribe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. At the time of preparation of the 
DASP IS/MND and the General Plan EIR, the CEQA did not include consideration of tribal cultural 
resources, as those were added by legislation that took effect in 2015, and therefore, the tribal 
cultural resources impacts of the DASP and General Plan buildout were not analyzed at that time. 
However, the DASP did include a cultural resources section, which considered potential impacts to 
prehistoric archaeological resources. As previously discussed under Section 4.5 Cultural Resources, 
the DASP IS/MND determined that compliance with existing regulations and General Plan policies 
would reduce impacts to prehistoric archaeological resources, which would include tribal cultural 
resources, to a less than significant level.  
 
 
 
 
 
360 of 1252

--- page 361 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
166 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact TCR-1: 
The project would not cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of a tribal cultural resource that is listed or eligible for listing in the California 
Register of Historical Resources, or in a local register of historical resources 
as defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1(k). [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation 
Incorporated)] 
 
As a project covered by an Addendum to a prior IS/MND or EIR, the project is not subject to AB 52 
tribal consultation requirements. There are no known TCRs on-site. However unlikely given the past 
disturbance of the site, cultural resources could still be encountered during construction. Any 
subsurface artifacts found on-site would be addressed consistent with MM CUL-2.1, MM CUL-2.2, 
and MM CUL-3.1 presented in Section 4.5 Cultural Resources. Therefore, the proposed project 
would have a less than significant impact on tribal cultural resources. [Same Impact as Approved 
Project (Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Impact TCR-2: 
The project would not cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of a tribal cultural resource that is determined by the lead agency, in its 
discretion and supported by substantial evidence, to be significant pursuant to 
criteria set forth in subdivision (c) of Public Resources Code Section 5024.1. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact with 
Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
See response to Impact TCR-1. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact 
with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
 
361 of 1252

--- page 362 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
167 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS 
4.19.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework  
State 
State Water Code  
Pursuant to the State Water Code, water suppliers providing water for municipal purposes to more 
than 3,000 customers or supplying more than 3,000 acre-feet (approximately 980 million gallons) of 
water annually must prepare and adopt an urban water management plan (UWMP) and update it 
every five years. As part of a UWMP, water agencies are required to evaluate and describe their 
water resource supplies and projected needs over a 20-year planning horizon, water conservation, 
water service reliability, water recycling, opportunities for water transfers, and contingency plans for 
drought events. The City is serviced by the California Water Service Company (Cal Water) and is 
located within Cal Water’s Mid-Peninsula Water District. The most recent Mid-Peninsula UWMP 
was adopted in June 2021.  
 
Bay-Delta Plan Amendment 
 
In December 2018, the SWRCB adopted amendments to the Water Quality Control Plan for the San 
Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary (Bay-Delta Plan Amendment) to establish 
water quality objectives to maintain the health of the Bay-Delta ecosystem. The adopted Bay-Delta 
Plan Amendment was developed with the stated goal of increasing salmonid populations in three San 
Joaquin River tributaries (the Stanislaus, Merced, and Tuolumne Rivers) and the Bay-Delta. The 
Bay-Delta Plan Amendment requires the release of 30 to 50 percent of the “unimpaired flow” on the 
three tributaries from February through June in every year type.81  
 
If the Bay-Delta Plan Amendment is implemented, the SFPUC will be able to meet the projected 
water demands presented in the 2021 Mid-Peninsula UWMP in normal years but would experience 
supply shortages in single dry years or multiple dry years. Implementation of the Bay-Delta Plan 
Amendment will require rationing in all single dry years and multiple dry years. The SFPUC has 
initiated an Alternative Water Supply Planning Program to ensure that San Francisco can meet its 
Retail and Wholesale Customer water needs, address projected dry years shortages, and limit 
rationing to a maximum 20 percent system-wide in accordance with adopted SFPUC policies. 
 
Assembly Bill 939  
The California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, or AB 939, established the Integrated 
Waste Management Board, required the implementation of integrated waste management plans, and 
mandated that local jurisdictions divert at least 50 percent of solid waste generated (from 1990 
levels), beginning January 1, 2000, and divert at least 75 percent by 2010. Projects that would have 
 
81 Unimpaired flow represents the natural water production of a river basin, unaltered by upstream diversions, 
storage, or by export or import of water to or from other watersheds. 
362 of 1252

--- page 363 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
168 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
an adverse effect on waste diversion goals are required to include waste diversion mitigation 
measures. 
 
Assembly Bill 341  
AB 341 sets forth the requirements of the statewide mandatory commercial recycling program. 
Businesses that generate four or more cubic yards of garbage per week and multi-family dwellings 
with five or more units in California are required to recycle. AB 341 sets a statewide goal for 75 
percent disposal reduction by the year 2020.  
 
Senate Bill 1383 
SB 1383 establishes targets to achieve a 50 percent reduction in the level of the statewide disposal of 
organic waste from the 2014 level by 2020 and a 75 percent reduction by 2025. The bill grants 
CalRecycle the regulatory authority required to achieve the organic waste disposal reduction targets 
and establishes an additional target that at least 20 percent of currently disposed edible food is 
recovered for human consumption by 2025. 
 
California Green Building Standards Code 
In January 2010, the State of California adopted the California Green Building Standards Code, 
establishing mandatory green building standards for all buildings in California. The most recent 
update to the Green Building Standards Code was published in 2022 and will go into effect on 
January 1, 2023. The code covers five categories: planning and design, energy efficiency, water 
efficiency and conservation, material conservation and resources efficiency, and indoor 
environmental quality. These standards include the following mandatory set of measures, as well as 
more rigorous voluntary guidelines, for new construction projects to achieve specific green building 
performance levels: 
Recycling and/or salvaging 65 percent of nonhazardous construction and demolition debris 
(Sections 4.408.1 and 5.408.1); and 
Providing readily accessible areas for recycling by occupants (Sections 4.410.2 and 5.410.1).  
 
Local 
City of San Mateo General Plan  
Applicable San Mateo General Plan policies related to utilities and service systems include, but are 
not limited to, the following listed below.  
 
Policies  
Description 
LU 4.4 
Seek to ensure a safe and predictable water system for existing and future development by taking 
the following actions: 
1. As a high priority, work with California Water Company and Estero Municipal Improvement 
District and adjacent jurisdictions to develop supplemental water sources and conservation 
efforts. 
2. Strongly encourage water conservation by implementing pro-active water conservation 
methods, including requiring all new development to install low volume flush toilets, low-flow 
shower heads, and utilize drip irrigation while promoting high-efficiency washing machines and 
establishing an education program to improve water conservation practices. 
363 of 1252

--- page 364 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
169 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Policies  
Description 
3. Investigate the feasibility of developing reclaimed water facilities or ground water or treating 
stormwater runoff that will enable reuse of water for irrigation purposes, freeing comparable 
potable water supplies for other uses. 
LU 4.7 
Provide a sewer system which safely and efficiently conveys sewage to the waste water treatment 
plant. Implement the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) to ensure proper maintenance, 
operations and management all parts of the wastewater collection system. 
LU 4.16 
Seek to ensure adequate gas, electric, and communication system to serve existing and future 
needs while minimizing impacts and existing and future residents by taking the following actions: 
1. Underground electrical and communication transmission and distribution lines in residential 
and commercial areas as funds permit. 
2. Require all new developments to underground lines and provide underground connections 
when feasible. 
3. Balance the need for cellular coverage with the desire to minimize visual impacts of cellular 
facilities, antennas, and equipment shelters. 
LU 4.28 
Seek to ensure that the California Water Service Company and the Estero Municipal 
Improvement District provide and maintain a water supply and distribution system which 
provides an adequate static pressure to deliver a minimum fire hydrant flow of 2,500 gallons per 
minute to all areas of the City, except where a lesser flow is acceptable as determined by the Fire 
Chief. Ensure that new development does not demand a fire flow in excess of that available. 
LU 4.31 
Continue to support programs to reduce solid waste materials in landfill areas in accordance with 
State requirements. 
LU 4.32 
Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State requirements. Require 
provisions for onsite recycling for all new development. 
LU 8.5 
Implement actions to achieve Goal 8e which states: 
Reduce citywide gross water consumption per capita to 102 gallons/day. Reduce the residential 
per capita to 70 gallons/day.  
Potential supportive actions include: 
1. Increase costs for residential and commercial waste collection and use increased waste 
collection revenue to provide waste reduction incentives. 
2. Mandate recycling. 
3. Require modifications within existing buildings to accommodate recycling bins. 
4. Require mandatory segregation of recyclables for all public (on-street, parks, public buildings) 
waste collection. 
5. Set aggressive waste reduction goals for all new development. 
6. Provide expanded waste reduction outreach and support for local businesses and residential 
customers. 
7. Support backyard composting while maintaining public health safeguards. 
LU 8.6 
Increase measured waste diversion to 50 percent in 2020 and maximum diversion 90 percent by 
2050 by mandating recycling, setting aggressive waste reduction goals for all new development 
and increasing costs for residential and commercial waste collection then using increased waste 
collection revenue to provide waste reduction incentives. 
LU 8.7 
Establish a partnership with California Water Service (CWS), Bay Area Water Supply 
Conservation Agency and other mid-peninsula cities to promote the water reduction strategies 
that are offered and to create an outreach program that will help inform residence and businesses 
of increase costs and the need for conservation efforts. 
 
364 of 1252

--- page 365 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
170 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Existing Conditions 
Water Service 
The site is currently serviced by Cal Water and is located within Cal Water’s Mid-Peninsula Water 
District. Cal Water purchases water from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC) to 
meet the City’s water demand. The demand from the Mid-Peninsula Water District as a whole was 
estimated to be 14,563 acre-feet per year in 2020 and forecasted to increase to 15,279 acre-feet per 
year in 2045.82 The volume of water supplied solely to the City of San Mateo by Cal Water was 
10,904 acre-feet in 2020, according to the 2020 UWMP for the Mid-Peninsula District. The UWMP 
also determined that the vast majority of water demand in the Mid-Peninsula Water District stems 
from residential uses (72 percent), while the remaining 22 percent was made up of non-residential 
uses. Water in San Mateo comes primarily from the Sierra Nevada, but also includes treated water 
produced by SFPUC from local watersheds and facilities in Alameda and San Mateo Counties. The 
2020 UWMP had substantial uncertainty regarding the amount of water supply and demand in future 
dry-year conditions due to a number of factors. In the event of dry year scenarios, the Mid-Peninsula 
Water District would enact its Water Shortage Contingency Plan that would require water 
conservation measures district-wide to ensure that water supplies are not exhausted. However, the 
UWMP indicates water supplies would be deficient in single- and multiple-dry years due to the 
implementation of the Bay-Delta Plan Amendment. 
 
Assuming default water demand rates for a “Supermarket” land use, the 60,965 -square foot 
Draeger’s Market has a water demand of approximately 7.7 million gallons per year (mgpy).83 
Existing water lines are located in East 5th Avenue, South B Street, East 4th Avenue, and South 
Ellsworth Avenue. 
 
Sanitary Sewer/Wastewater Treatment 
The City of San Mateo Department of Public Works (DPW), Clean Water Program (CWP), and 
Environmental Services Division provides oversight of the City’s sanitary sewer collection system, 
including the San Mateo/Estero Municipal Improvement District Wastewater Treatment Plant 
(WWTP) serving approximately 170,000 people and about 240 miles of collection system 
mainlines.84,85 San Mateo’s WWTP is a jointly owned facility. Ownership of the WWTP facility is 
shared between San Mateo and Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District, with ownership 
respectively split approximately 75 and 25 percent. The WWTP collects wastewater from these two 
facility owners, plus portions of Hillsborough, Belmont, Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, 
and the County of San Mateo, for treatment and eventual discharge into the San Francisco Bay.  
 
 
82 Cal Water. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan – Mid-Peninsula District. June 2021  
83 California Emissions Estimator Model. Appendix D – Default Data Tables – Table 9.1 Water Use Rates. October 
2017. 
[60,965 s.f. Draeger’s Market x 123,268 gallons/year indoor use ÷ 1,000 s.f. = 7.5 million gallons per year indoor 
use] + [60,965 s.f. Draeger’s Market x 3,812 gallons/year outdoor use ÷ 1,000 s.f. = 0.23 million gallons per year] = 
7.7 million gallons per year 
84 Clean Water Program. “About the Clean Water Program”. Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/about/  
85 City of San Mateo. “Storm, Sewer, and Wastewater”. Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1084/Storm-Sewer  
365 of 1252

--- page 366 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
171 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
The WWTP currently treats approximately 11 million gallons per day (mgd) of average dry weather 
flow (ADWF), with this amount expected to increase with the increase in population within the 
service area.86 The WWTP can treat up to 60 mgd per day through primary treatment and 40 mgd 
through secondary treatment. During heavy rains, the WWTP’s treatment capacity is regularly 
exceeded. San Mateo has recently updated the collection system model to better estimate peak flows 
and to project flows through 2035. According to the 2014 model, the peak wet weather flow 
(PWWF) that would be conveyed to the plant in 2035 (assuming there is adequate conveyance), is 
projected to be 98 mgd.87 The City’s Clean Water Program has initiated capacity improvement 
projects in its collection system to manage flows to the WWTP, reducing WWTP influent PWWF 
down to 78 mgd. In 2019, the CWP started construction on the upgrade and expansion of the WWTP, 
which will be done in three phases over five years. The upgrade and expansion project consists of 
new liquids treatment process facilities, including a headworks, primary treatment, biological 
nutrient removal/membrane bioreactor process, biological and chemically enhanced high-rate wet 
weather treatment, and other plant upgrades, including odor control to serve the new facilities. These 
facilities will be designed to provide advanced treatment to 21 mgd and allow the plant to better 
handle heavy storm events up to 78 mgd.88  
 
According to the project’s utility plan sheet, the existing Draeger’s Market generates approximately 
15,188 gallons of wastewater per day. There are existing sanitary sewer lines in East 5th Avenue, 
South B Street, East 4th Avenue, and South Ellsworth Avenue. 
 
Storm Drainage 
The City of San Mateo Public Works Department operates and maintains the storm drainage system 
in the City. Stormwater from the project site typically flows into the City’s existing storm drains on 
East 5th Avenue and South B Street. Runoff from the site is conveyed through the City’s stormwater 
system until its release into the San Francisco Bay. The project site is located within the San Mateo 
Creek drainage basin, a 35 square mile basin that includes four square miles within San Mateo city 
limits. Most of the land contained within San Mateo Creek drainage basin is urbanized. The City’s 
storm drain system has sufficient capacity to accommodate storm drainage from the existing 
development.  
 
Solid Waste 
Solid waste collection and recycling services for residents and businesses in San Mateo are provided 
by Recology San Mateo County. Once collected, solid waste and recyclables are transported to the 
Shoreway Environmental Center for sorting. After the solid waste is collected and sorted at the San 
Carlos Transfer Station, non-recyclable waste is transported to the Corinda Los Trancos (Ox 
Mountain) Landfill, located in Half Moon Bay. The Ox Mountain landfill is permitted by the 
California Integrated Waste Management Board to receive 3,598 tons per day or 1.3 million tons per 
year. The landfill’s maximum capacity is 60.5 million cubic yards, with an estimated closure year of 
 
86 San Mateo Clean Water Program. Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project. November 2017.  
87 City of San Mateo. Final Environmental Impact Report, City of San Mateo Clean Water Program. April 2016.  
88 Clean Water Program. Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management 
Upgrade and Expansion Project. March 27, 2020. https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/wwtp/.  
366 of 1252

--- page 367 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
172 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
2034.89 The remaining capacity at this facility is 22,180,000 cubic yards.  
 
Based on default CalEEMod assumptions for supermarket land uses, the existing Draeger’s Market 
generates approximately 344 tons of solid waste per year.90 
 
4.19.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less Impact 
than 
Approved 
Project 
Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Require or result in the relocation or 
construction of new or expanded water, 
wastewater treatment or stormwater 
drainage, electric power, natural gas, or 
telecommunications facilities, the 
construction or relocation of which 
could cause significant environmental 
effects? 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Have insufficient water supplies 
available to serve the project and 
reasonably foreseeable future 
development during normal, dry and 
multiple dry years? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Result in a determination by the 
wastewater treatment provider which 
serves or may serve the project that it 
does not have adequate capacity to 
serve the project’s projected demand in 
addition to the provider’s existing 
commitments? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Generate solid waste in excess of state 
or local standards, or in excess of the 
capacity of local infrastructure, or 
otherwise impair the attainment of solid 
waste reduction goals? 
 
 
 
 
 
5) Be noncompliant with federal, state, 
and local management and reduction 
statutes and regulations related to solid 
waste? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89 CalRecycle. Solid Waste Facility Permit – Corinda Los Trancos Landfill (Ox Mountain). Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/SolidWaste/SiteActivity/Details/1561?siteID=3223  
90 California Emissions Estimator Model. Appendix D – Default Data Tables – Table 10.1 Solid Waste Disposal 
Rates. September 2016. 
60,965 s.f. Draeger’s Market x 5.64 tons solid waste per year ÷ 1,000 s.f. = 343.8 tons solid waste per year 
367 of 1252

--- page 368 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
173 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
DASP IS/MND Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that the existing utility and 
service systems would be adequate to accommodate buildout of the DASP and implementation of 
General Plan policies would reduce any impacts to a less than significant level.  
 
Impact UTL-1: 
The project would not require or result in the relocation or construction of 
new or expanded water, wastewater treatment or stormwater drainage, electric 
power, natural gas, or telecommunications facilities, the construction or 
relocation of which could cause significant environmental effects. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Water Facilities  
The proposed project would rely on the existing water delivery system to supply water to the site. As 
discussed in Impact UTL-2, below, the project may incrementally increase the water demand in the 
City but would not require additional water supply other than what is currently allocated for the City 
by the Cal Water Mid-Peninsula District. No relocation or construction of water facilities is required 
by the proposed project. The project would connect to the existing water mains in S. B Street, E. 5th 
Avenue, and S. Ellsworth Avenue. Lateral connections to existing water lines would occur during 
grading of the site and would not result in significant environmental effects. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
Wastewater Treatment Facilities  
Wastewater generated by the proposed project would be disposed of at the San Mateo WWTP. As 
discussed under Impact UTL-3, the San Mateo WWTP has adequate disposal capacity through 2035. 
No expansion or construction of wastewater treatment facilities would be required to accommodate 
the project. The proposed mixed-use building would construct six-inch lateral sewer connections to 
an existing 10-inch sanitary sewer main in S. B Street. Construction of lateral connections would 
occur during grading and would not cause significant environmental effects. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)]  
 
Stormwater Drainage Facilities  
Given that the project site is already developed and contains limited amounts of pervious surface 
area, the proposed redevelopment would not substantially alter the amount of stormwater runoff 
generated at the project site. As discussed in Section 4.10, Hydrology and Water Quality, 
implementation of MRP-mandated treatment controls would provide reductions in the rate and 
volume of post-construction stormwater runoff discharged to the public storm drain system. The 
project would install a new 18-inch storm drain line along S. B Street, S. Ellsworth and portions of 
4th and 5th Avenue. Construction of new storm drainage infrastructure would occur during grading 
and would not cause significant environmental effects. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less 
than Significant Impact)]  
 
Electric Power, Natural Gas, and Telecommunication Facilities  
The project would be served by existing electric power, natural gas, and telecommunication facilities 
in the area. Although the project may increase demand on these facilities, the potential increase 
would not be substantial as to require expansion of existing facilities or construction of new facilities. 
368 of 1252

--- page 369 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
174 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Connecting to existing utility lines would occur during grading and would not result in significant 
environmental effects. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact UTL-2: 
The project would not have insufficient water supplies available to serve the 
project and reasonably foreseeable future development during normal, dry and 
multiple dry years. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
The Mid-Peninsula District’s water supply (14 billion gallons per year through 2040) is shared 
among Cal Water Service’s three districts (South San Francisco District, Bear Gulch District and 
Mid-Peninsula District). The District’s Urban Water Management Plan anticipates that the City is 
expected to meet projected water demand through 2040 during normal year scenarios. Available 
water supply will be reduced during single and multiple drought years. Implementation of the Cal 
Water Service’s water shortage contingency plan (and other conservation measures) will reduce the 
demand for water in the District during years of drought. Additionally, Cal Water’s development of 
alternative water supplies also ensures that there would not be a water deficit.  
 
The proposed project falls below the 500-dwelling unit and 500,000 square foot office use thresholds 
for preparation of a water supply assessment by a local provider, in line with Senate Bill 610 and 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15155. Although the project would not require a water supply assessment 
to comprehensively analyze its water use impact, the project would intensify the demand for water 
use on the project site when compared to its current use. The utility plan sheet for the project 
estimates that the project would result in a water demand of approximately 39,460 gpd (14.4 million 
mgpy). Assuming the existing Draeger’s Market consumes approximately 7.7 mgpy, the project 
would result in a net decrease of approximately 6.7 mgpy. The proposed project may increase water 
consumption on-site; however, this increase would not prevent Cal Water from meeting its 
customers’ water demands, as the proposed water demand for the project is in line with growth 
assumptions used in the most recent UWMP based on the adopted General Plan, with which the 
proposed project is consistent.  
 
The proposed project would be required to comply with various City policies established to reduce 
water use in addition to the City’s Green Building Codes, Water Conservation in Landscaping 
Ordinance, and Cal Water’s Water Shortage Contingency Plan and water conservation measures. 
Adherence to these ordinances and measures would prevent excessive use of water and ensure the 
proposed project incorporates water saving measures into its building design.  
 
The proposed project would not require additional water supply other than what is currently allocated 
for the City by the Cal Water Mid-Peninsula District. The demand from the Mid-Peninsula Water 
District as a whole was estimated to be 14,563 acre-feet per year in 2020 and forecasted to increase 
to 15,279 acre-feet per year in 2045. The volume of water supplied solely to the City of San Mateo 
by Cal Water was 10,904 acre-feet (3.6 billion gallons) in 2020. The estimated increase in water use 
on the project site will be minimal in comparison to the City’s total demand (0.19 percent), let alone 
the demand of the entire District. In the event of dry year scenarios, the Mid-Peninsula Water District 
would enact its Water Shortage Contingency Plan that would require water conservation measures 
district-wide to ensure that water supplies are not exhausted. 
 
369 of 1252

--- page 370 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
175 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
By implementing water conservation measures and ensuring applicable building codes are adhered 
to, the proposed project would not result in an excessive increase in water demand beyond what is 
already planned for in the Mid-Peninsula Water District. Therefore, the proposed project would not 
significantly impact water supplies in the region. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact UTL-3: 
The project would not result in a determination by the wastewater treatment 
provider which serves or may serve the project that it does not have adequate 
capacity to serve the project’s projected demand in addition to the provider’s 
existing commitments. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact)] 
 
The San Mateo WWTP has an ADWF design capacity of 15.7 mgd and a peak wet weather capacity 
of approximately 40 mgd. The current ADWF is approximately 11.6 mgd. The ADWF is expected to 
increase directly with the increase in population within the service area, resulting in an ADWF of 
13.9 mgd by the year 2035. The expected increase in ADWF would not result in an exceedance of 
capacity at the treatment plant. 
 
According to the project’s utility plan sheet, the project is estimated to result in a net increase of 
approximately 22,300 gpd. On its own, the proposed project would not result in an exceedance of 
capacity at the San Mateo WWTP. The increase in wastewater from the proposed project would be 
consistent with expected growth metrics for employment, population and housing in the City that 
were used to analyze impacts from planned development until 2030 under the General Plan. 
Additionally, the project would be subject to the following standard conditions of approval.  
 
Standard Conditions of Approval: 
 
• 
In order to meet the increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this 
project, the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average 
projected sanitary flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on 
January 13, 2022. 
• 
The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to the project’s share of the increased amount 
of sewage generated by the project, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
3.54.060. The charge will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of 
building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and 
paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the 
fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. 
 
The amount of wastewater generated on-site would not require the development of new or the 
expansion of existing wastewater treatment plants and would be adequately treated under the existing 
system. Therefore, the proposed project would not significantly impact the wastewater treatment 
capacity of the City of San Mateo. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact)] 
 
370 of 1252

--- page 371 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
176 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact UTL-4: 
The project would not generate solid waste in excess of state or local 
standards, or in excess of the capacity of local infrastructure, or otherwise 
impair the attainment of solid waste reduction goals. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
The proposed project includes 10 residential units, amounting to an increase in local population of 26 
persons (see Section 4.14 Population and Housing). The City has established solid waste generation 
rates of approximately 3.9 pounds of waste per resident per day.91 The residential component of the 
project would result in a net increase in solid waste generated at the site of approximately 101 pounds 
of waste per day, or approximately 18 tons per year. Based on default CalEEMod assumptions,92 the 
retail and office components of the project would generate approximately 100 tons and 97 tons of 
solid waste per year, respectively. Thus, the project would generate a total of approximately 215 tons 
of solid waste per year. Assuming the existing Draeger’s Market generates approximately 344 tons of 
solid waste per year, the project would result in a net decrease of approximately 129 tons per year 
compared to existing conditions.  
 
Solid waste from the City of San Mateo is disposed of at Ox Mountain Landfill in Half Moon Bay, 
which is expected to reach its permitted capacity in 2034.93 The City implements programs to reduce 
solid waste materials in landfills, and in 2015 achieved a landfill diversion rate of approximately 73 
percent.94 The project would not interfere with the City’s goals of increasing measured waste 
diversion to 50 percent past 2020 and maximum diversion to 90 percent by 2050, as set forth by 
General Plan Policy LU-8.6. The proposed mixed-use project will not result in an increase in waste 
landfilled at Ox Mountain Landfill, or be served by a landfill without sufficient capacity. [Same 
Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
Impact UTL-5: 
The project would not be noncompliant with federal, state, or local 
management and reduction statutes and regulations related to solid waste. 
[Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
In addition to the solid waste generated by operation of the proposed mixed-use building, large 
amounts of construction waste would be generated during construction and demolition activities. At 
least 65 percent of this construction waste will be recycled, in compliance with the California Green 
Building Standards Code. Implementation of recycling measures during the construction and post-
construction phases of the project would contribute to the City’s compliance with the waste diversion 
requirements under state law. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant Impact)] 
 
 
 
 
91 City of San Mateo. Recycling, Compost, and Garbage. Available at: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2076. Accessed September 9, 2022. 
92 California Emissions Estimator Model. Appendix D – Default Data Tables – Table 10.1 Solid Waste Disposal 
Rates. September 2016. 
93 CalRecycle. Solid Waste Facility Permit – Corinda Los Trancos Landfill (Ox Mountain). Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/SolidWaste/SiteActivity/Details/1561?siteID=3223 
94 City of San Mateo. Recycling, Compost, and Garbage. Available at: 
<http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2076>. Accessed October 10, 2019.  
371 of 1252

--- page 372 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
177 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
WILDFIRE 
4.20.1   
Environmental Setting 
 
Regulatory Framework 
State 
Fire Hazard Severity Zones 
CAL FIRE is required by law to map areas of significant fire hazards based on fuels, terrain, weather, 
and other relevant factors. Referred to as Fire Hazard Severity Zones (FHSZs), these maps influence 
how people construct buildings and protect property to reduce risk associated with wildland fires. 
FHSZs are divided into areas where the state has financial responsibility for wildland fire protection, 
known as state responsibility areas (SRAs), and areas where local governments have financial 
responsibility for wildland fire protection, known as local responsibility areas (LRAs). Homeowners 
living in an SRA are responsible for ensuring that their property is in compliance with California’s 
building and fire codes. Only lands zoned for Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones (VHFHSZ) are 
identified within LRAs.  
 
Existing Conditions 
There are no wildland fire hazards in the City of San Mateo; however, to the west of the City within 
the City’s Sphere of Influence there are undeveloped portions of the western hills that are considered 
wildland fire hazards. These areas are subject to wildland type fires due to existing vegetation, 
particularly chaparral, the steep slopes and the temperate climate with dry summer months.95 
 
The project site is in the developed Downtown portion of the City and is not located in a very high 
fire hazard severity zone.96,97  
 
4.20.2   
Impact Discussion 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
If located in or near state responsibility areas 
or lands classified as very high fire hazard 
severity zones, would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
1) Substantially impair an adopted 
emergency response plan or emergency 
evacuation plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 San Mateo 2030 General Plan, Safety Element. October 2010. 
96 California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County: Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones 
in LRA as Recommended by CAL FIRE. November 2008. 
97 California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County: Fire Hazard Severity Zones in SRA. 
November 2007.  
372 of 1252

--- page 373 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
178 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
If located in or near state responsibility areas 
or lands classified as very high fire hazard 
severity zones, would the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Due to slope, prevailing winds, and 
other factors, exacerbate wildfire risks, 
and thereby expose project occupants to, 
pollutant concentrations from a wildfire 
or the uncontrolled spread of a wildfire? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Require the installation or maintenance 
of associated infrastructure (such as 
roads, fuel breaks, emergency water 
sources, power lines or other utilities) 
that may exacerbate fire risk or that may 
result in temporary or ongoing impacts 
to the environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Expose people or structures to 
significant risks, including downslope or 
downstream flooding or landslides, as a 
result of runoff, post-fire slope 
instability, or drainage changes? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR Prior Conclusions. At the time the DASP IS/MND was 
prepared, the wildfire section had not yet been added to the CEQA Appendix G checklist. Thus, the 
DASP IS/MND did not discuss wildfire impacts beyond the Hazards and Hazardous Materials 
section. The 2030 General Plan EIR includes a discussion of wildland fire in the human health/risk of 
upset section. The 2030 General Plan EIR states that there are no designated wildland fire hazards in 
the City of San Mateo, though there are designated areas on undeveloped hillsides directly to the 
west of the City boundaries. The DASP IS/MND determined that buildout of the DASP would result 
in less than significant wildland fire impacts with implementation of General Plan policies and 
compliance with the San Mateo Fire Code. The wildfire section has since been added to the CEQA 
checklist and the project’s wildfire analysis is discussed below.  
 
The project site is not located within state responsibility areas or lands classified as very high fire 
hazard severity zones. While there are some undeveloped hillsides west of the City that are within 
wildfire hazard zones, these areas are located approximately three miles west of the project site. 
While it may be possible for embers from large wildfires in these areas to travel to the project site, 
the project site is not susceptible to wildfire risk due to the lack of vegetation on-site. Therefore, the 
project would not result in wildfire impacts. [Same Impact as Approved Project (No Impact)] 
 
 
 
373 of 1252

--- page 374 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
179 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE 
 
New 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
New Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact 
Same Impact 
as Approved 
Project 
Less 
Impact than 
Approved 
Project 
1) Does the project have the potential to 
substantially degrade the quality of the 
environment, substantially reduce the 
habitat of a fish or wildlife species, 
cause a fish or wildlife population to 
drop below self-sustaining levels, 
threaten to eliminate a plant or animal 
community, substantially reduce the 
number or restrict the range of a rare or 
endangered plant or animal, or eliminate 
important examples of the major periods 
of California history or prehistory?  
 
 
 
 
 
2) Does the project have impacts that are 
individually limited, but cumulatively 
considerable? (“Cumulatively 
considerable” means that the incremental 
effects of a project are considerable 
when viewed in connection with the 
effects of past projects, the effects of 
other current projects, and the effects of 
probable future projects)? 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Does the project have environmental 
effects which will cause substantial 
adverse effects on human beings, either 
directly or indirectly? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan Prior Conclusions. The DASP IS/MND determined that 
buildout of the DASP would have the potential to degrade the environment, result in cumulative 
impacts, and have effects on human beings. However, the DASP IS/MND determined that 
implementation of both DASP and General Plan policies would mitigate these impacts to a less than 
significant level. EIRs do not include the Mandatory Findings of Significance Section, thus, the 
General Plan EIR did not include such a section. However, the General Plan EIR did analyze 
cumulative impacts and determined that buildout of the General Plan would be result in a cumulative 
significant impact. As described throughout the various sections of the General Plan EIR, it was 
determined that buildout of the General Plan would also not have a significant impact on human 
beings nor would it substantially degrade the environment with implementation of the various 
General Plan policies.  
 
 
 
 
374 of 1252

--- page 375 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
180 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Impact MFS-1: 
The project does not have the potential to substantially degrade the quality of 
the environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or wildlife species, 
cause a fish or wildlife population to drop below self-sustaining levels, 
threaten to eliminate a plant or animal community, substantially reduce the 
number or restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant or animal, or 
eliminate important examples of the major periods of California history or 
prehistory. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than Significant 
Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
As discussed in prior sections of this Addendum, the proposed project would not degrade the quality 
of the environment, substantially affect biological resources, or eliminate important examples of 
California history or prehistory with implementation of the identified conditions of approval and 
mitigation measures. As discussed in Section 4.4, Biological Resources, adherence to the City of San 
Mateo’s Tree Preservation Ordinance and listed mitigation measures for impacts to nesting birds 
(MM BIO-1.1 through MM BIO-1.4) would reduce potentially significant impacts to biological 
resources to a less than significant level. As discussed in Section 4.5, Cultural Resources, with 
implementation of the identified conditions of approval and mitigation measures (MM CUL-2.1, MM 
CUL-2.2, and MM CUL-3.1), the project would result in a less than significant impact on cultural 
resources. Finally, as discussed in Section 4.9, implementation of a SMP as a condition of approval 
would require the project to implement appropriate control measures during ground-disturbing 
activities and dewatering to ensure that the environment is not exposed to potential contaminants that 
may be present in soil or groundwater on-site. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than 
Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Impact MFS-2: 
The project does not have impacts that are individually limited, but 
cumulatively considerable. [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less than 
Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Under Section 15065(a)(3) of the CEQA Guidelines, a lead agency shall find that a project may have 
a significant effect on the environment where there is substantial evidence that the project has 
potential environmental effects “that are individually limited, but cumulatively considerable.” As 
defined in Section 15065(a)(3) of the CEQA Guidelines, cumulatively considerable means “that the 
incremental effects of an individual project are significant when viewed in connection with the 
effects of past projects, the effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable future 
projects.” 
 
Because criteria air pollutant and GHG emissions would contribute to regional and global emissions 
of such pollutants, the identified thresholds developed by BAAQMD and used by the City of San 
Mateo were developed such that a project-level impact would also be a cumulatively considerable 
impact. The discussion of project criteria pollutant impacts presented in Section 4.3 Air Quality also 
reflects cumulative conditions, and the project would not contribute to significant cumulative 
impacts. The project’s contribution to cumulative climate change impacts was presented in Section 
4.8 Greenhouse Gas Emissions as less than cumulatively considerable. Therefore, the proposed 
project would not make a substantial contribution to cumulative air quality or GHG emissions 
impacts. Similarly, the discussion of the project’s energy impact also reflects cumulative conditions, 
since the project’s consumption of electricity, natural gas, and gasoline was assessed in comparison 
375 of 1252

--- page 376 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
181 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
with consumption at the state and county level. Therefore, the proposed project would not make a 
substantial contribution to cumulative air quality, energy use, or GHG emissions impacts. 
 
With the implementation of mitigation measures and conditions of approval, development on the site 
would not result in significant geology and soils or hydrology and water quality impacts and would 
not contribute to cumulative impacts to these resources, as the geologic issues are specific to the site, 
and do not have the potential to contribute to or combine with localized, specific conditions on other 
development sites across the City over the planning horizon of the General Plan, while the 
cumulative hydrologic conditions are addressed by the MRP and City policies intended to cover 
development across the City of San Mateo. Also, the project would not impact agricultural and forest 
resources or mineral resources and, therefore, the project would not contribute to a significant 
cumulative impact on these resources. 
 
The proposed project, in conjunction with cumulative projects, would not result in the loss of 
sensitive habitat. The project proposes the removal of 39 existing trees. The project proposes to 
comply with the City’s policy regarding tree removal and replacement. Pre-construction nesting bird 
surveys are required as mitigation, therefore, the project would not contribute to a significant 
cumulative impact on migratory birds. Other projects in the vicinity would also be required to 
comply with the City’s tree policies and would be required to implement similar mitigation measures 
to ensure cumulative impacts on migratory nesting birds are reduced to a less than significant level.  
 
As noted in Section 4.17 Transportation, the project’s VMT impacts are presumed to be less than 
significant as the project meets the definition of a small infill project near high quality transit, and 
therefore the project would not contribute to cumulative VMT impacts. Projects in the vicinity would 
similarly have less than significant VMT impacts given the presence of high-quality transit in the 
project area. Additionally, other projects within in the Downtown Specific Plan Area would also be 
required to implement a TDM Plan that achieves a 25 percent reduction in vehicle trips. Therefore, 
project impacts would be kept to a less than significant level and would not contribute to a 
cumulatively significant transportation impact.  
 
As previously described in Section 4,19 Utilities and Service Systems, the City would have sufficient 
water supply, wastewater treatment capacity, and landfill capacity to accommodate the project and 
further anticipated growth within the City. Any construction, relocation, or modifications of utility 
lines by cumulative projects would be subject to standard construction-related conditions of approval 
and would not result in a significant environmental effect. Therefore, the project would not 
contribute to significant utility and service systems impacts.  
 
The proposed project would result in temporary air quality, biological, cultural, hazardous materials, 
and noise impacts during construction. The analysis of toxic air contaminants took into account 
cumulative sources within 1,000 feet per BAAQMD guidelines, and found that cumulative health 
risks would be below applicable health risk thresholds. With implementation of the conditions of 
approval, BMPs, and mitigation measures identified in this Addendum and in the City of San 
Mateo’s DASP IS/MND and 2030 General Plan EIR, construction-level impacts would be mitigated 
to a less than significant level. Other projects in the vicinity would be required to implement similar 
measures and thus, would not be result in a cumulatively considerable impact.  
 
376 of 1252

--- page 377 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
182 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
Operational impacts from the proposed project would be reduced by adherence to local, state, and 
federal regulations. The proposed project, and other cumulative projects, would comply with all 
California Codes, General Plan policies, municipal code, and State Water Board regulations. The 
project would not result in cumulatively considerable operational impacts by adhering to established 
policies and regulations. Furthermore, potential cumulative impacts associated with buildout of the 
2030 General Plan (including the proposed project, which as documented in Section 4.11 is 
consistent with the 2030 General Plan and associated policies and regulated adopted for the purpose 
of avoiding or mitigating an environmental effect) are accounted for in the General Plan EIR. Under 
Section 15152(f) of the CEQA Guidelines, where a lead agency has determined that a cumulative 
effect has been adequately addressed in a prior EIR, the effect is not treated as significant for 
purposes of later environmental review and need not be discussed in detail. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project (Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Impact MFS-3: 
The project does not have environmental effects which will cause substantial 
adverse effects on human beings, either directly or indirectly. [Same Impact as 
Approved Project [Same Impact as Approved Project (Less Than 
Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
Consistent with Section 15065(a)(4) of the CEQA Guidelines, a lead agency shall find that a project 
may have a significant effect on the environment where there is substantial evidence that the project 
has the potential to cause substantial adverse effects on human beings, either directly or indirectly. 
Under this standard, a change to the physical environment that might otherwise be minor must be 
treated as significant if people would be significantly affected. This factor relates to adverse changes 
to the environment of human beings generally, and not to effects on particular individuals. While 
changes to the environment that could indirectly affect human beings would be represented by all of 
the designated CEQA issue areas, those that could directly affect human beings include construction 
air quality, hazardous materials and noise. The proposed project would adhere to General Plan 
policies and implement mitigation measures to reduce potential impacts to a less than significant 
level. As discussed in Section 4.3, Air Quality, with implementation of MM AIR-3.1, the proposed 
project would not expose future sensitive receptors to health risks associated with mobile and 
stationary sources of toxic air contaminants above CEQA significance thresholds. As discussed in 
Section 4.9 Hazards and Hazardous Materials, with implementation of a SMP as a condition of 
approval, construction activities would not result in a significant health risk to construction workers 
or the general public. As discussed in Section 4.13, Noise and Vibration, temporary noise impacts 
generated during the construction phase of the project would be reduced to less than significant levels 
with the implementation of the identified mitigation measures (MM NOI-1.1). No other direct or 
indirect adverse effects on human beings have been identified. [Same Impact as Approved Project 
(Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated)] 
 
 
377 of 1252

--- page 378 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
183 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 5.0   
REFERENCES 
The analysis in this Addendum is based on the professional judgement and expertise of the 
environmental specialists preparing this document, based upon review of the site, surrounding 
conditions, site plans, and the following references: 
 
ABAG. “Hazard Viewer”. Accessed May 19, 2022. 
https://mtc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=4a6f3f1259df42eab29b35dfc
d086fc8  
 
Association of Bay Area Governments and Metropolitan Transportation Commission. Plan Bay Area 
2050. October 21, 2021. Page 20. 
 
Association of Bay Area Governments. “Projections 2040.” Accessed September 26, 2022. Available 
at: http://projections.planbayarea.org/.  
 
BAAQMD. Final 2017 Clean Air Plan. April 19, 2017. http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans-and-
climate/air-quality-plans/current-plans. 
 
Basin Research Associates. Cultural Resources Review – In Support of Environmental Clearance for 
222 East 4th Avenue, City of San Mateo. May 9, 2022.  
 
C/CAG of San Mateo County. “Congestion Management”. 2017. 
 
Cal Water. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan – Mid-Peninsula District. June 2021  
 
California Air Resources Board. “Overview: Diesel Exhaust and Health.” Accessed July 18, 2022. 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/resources/overview-diesel-exhaust-and-health. 
 
California Air Resources Board. “The Advanced Clean Cars Program.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.arb.ca.gov/msprog/acc/acc.htm.  
 
California Building Standards Commission. “California Building Standards Code.” Accessed 
September 9, 2022. https://www.dgs.ca.gov/BSC/Codes#@ViewBag.JumpTo.  
 
California Department of Conservation, Division of Land Resource Protection. San Mateo County 
Williamson Act FY 2006/2007. 2012. 
 
California Department of Conservation. “Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program.” Accessed 
April 7, 2022. http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/fmmp/Pages/Index.aspx.  
 
California Department of Conservation. “Williamson Act.” http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/lca.  
 
California Department of Finance. “E-5 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and the State – 
January 1, 2020 and 2021.” https://dof.ca.gov/forecasting/demographics/estimates/estimates-
e5-2010-2021/ Accessed April 18, 2022. 
378 of 1252

--- page 379 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
184 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. “Fire and Resource Assessment Program.” 
Accessed April 7, 2022. http://frap.fire.ca.gov/. 
 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County Fire Hazard Safety Zone 
Map. November 2007. 
 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County: Very High Fire Hazard 
Severity Zones in LRA as Recommended by CAL FIRE. November 2008. 
 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. San Mateo County: Fire Hazard Severity 
Zones in SRA. November 2007. 
 
California Department of Housing and Community Development. “Regional Housing Needs 
Allocation and Housing Elements” Accessed April 18, 2022. http://hcd.ca.gov/community-
development/housing-element/index.shtml.  
 
California Department of Tax and Fee Administration. “Net Taxable Gasoline Gallons.” Accessed 
September 9, 2022. 
https://www.cdtfa.ca.gov/dataportal/dataset.htm?url=VehicleTaxableFuelDist.  
 
California Department of Transportation. Scenic Highways. Available at: 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-landscape-architecture-and-community-livability/lap-
liv-i-scenic-highways. Accessed March 18, 2020. 
 
California Department of Transportation. State Scenic Highway System Map. Available at:  
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-landscape-architecture-and-community-livability/lap-
liv-i-scenic-highways.  Accessed April 13, 2022. 
 
California Department of Water Resources, Division of Safety of Dams. 
https://water.ca.gov/Programs/All-Programs/Division-of-Safety-of-
Dams#:~:text=Since%20August%2014%2C%201929%2C%20the,Safety%20of%20Dams%
20(DSOD). Accessed April 12, 2022. 
 
California Department of Water Resources. “Basin Prioritization”. 
https://water.ca.gov/Programs/Groundwater-Management/Basin-Prioritization. Accessed 
April 13, 2022.  
 
California Emissions Estimator Model. Appendix D – Default Data Tables – Table 9.1 Water Use 
Rates. October 2017. 
 
California Emissions Estimator Model. Appendix D – Default Data Tables – Table 10.1 Solid Waste 
Disposal Rates. October 2017. 
 
California Energy Commission (CEC). “2019 Building Energy Efficiency Standards.” Accessed 
September 9, 2022. https://www.energy.ca.gov/programs-and-topics/programs/building-
energy-efficiency-standards/2019-building-energy-efficiency. 
379 of 1252

--- page 380 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
185 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
California Energy Commission. “Natural Gas Consumption by County.” Accessed September 9, 
2022. http://ecdms.energy.ca.gov/gasbycounty.aspx.  
 
California Energy Commission. Energy Consumption Data Management System. “Electricity 
Consumption by County.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
http://ecdms.energy.ca.gov/elecbycounty.aspx.  
 
California Environmental Protection Agency. “Cortese List Data Resources.” Accessed April 11, 
2022. https://calepa.ca.gov/sitecleanup/corteselist/.  
 
California Gas and Electric Utilities. 2022 California Gas Report. Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.socalgas.com/sites/default/files/Joint_Utility_Biennial_Comprehensive_Californ
ia_Gas_Report_2022.pdf  
 
California Geological Survey. “Earthquake Zones of Required Investigation”. Accessed May 19, 
2022. https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/EQZApp/app/.  
 
California Natural Resources Agency. San Mateo County Important Farmland 2018. September 
2019. Accessed April 7, 2022. 
https://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/fmmp/Pages/SanMateo.aspx 
 
California Office of Historic Preservation. “CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5(a)(3) and California 
Office of Historic Preservation Technical Assistance Series #6.” Accessed August 31, 2020. 
http://www.ohp.parks.ca.gov/pages/1069/files/technical%20assistance%20bulletin%206%20
2011%20update.pdf.  
 
CalRecycle. Solid Waste Facility Permit – Corinda Los Trancos Landfill (Ox Mountain). Accessed 
May 26, 2022. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/SolidWaste/SiteActivity/Details/1561?siteID=3223  
 
CalRecycle. Solid Waste Facility Permit – Corinda Los Trancos Landfill (Ox Mountain). Accessed 
May 26, 2022. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/SolidWaste/SiteActivity/Details/1561?siteID=3223 
 
City of San Mateo “Central Park and Japanese Garden”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3319/Central-Park-Japanese-Garden  
 
City of San Mateo. “Current and Upcoming Projects”. Accessed April 12, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1970/Current-Upcoming-Projects  
 
City of San Mateo. “Fire Department”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/74/Fire  
 
City of San Mateo. “Parks and Facilities”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/559/Parks-and-Facilities  
 
380 of 1252

--- page 381 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
186 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
City of San Mateo. “Storm, Sewer, and Wastewater”. Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1084/Storm-Sewer  
 
City of San Mateo. 2030 General Plan. 2011. 
 
City of San Mateo. Final Environmental Impact Report, City of San Mateo Clean Water Program. 
April 2016.  
 
City of San Mateo. General Plan EIR. July 2009.  
 
City of San Mateo. Recycling, Compost, and Garbage. Available at: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2076. Accessed September 9, 2022. 
 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County, Comprehensive Airport Land Use 
Compatibility Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport. November 2012 
 
Clean Water Program. “About the Clean Water Program”. Accessed May 26, 2022. 
https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/about/  
 
Clean Water Program. Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project. March 27, 2020. 
https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/wwtp/.  
 
Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. Environmental Document Review. Letter. October 20, 2022.  
 
Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. Geotechnical Investigation – 222 East 4th Avenue. December 20, 
2019.  
 
County of San Mateo. Hazard Vulnerability Assessment. January 2016.  
 
ECORP Consulting, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment – 222 East 4th Avenue Project. 
September 2022. 
 
FEMA. Flood Insurance Rate Map, Community Panel No. 06081C0154G. Map. Effective Date: 
April 5, 2019. 
https://msc.fema.gov/portal/search?AddressQuery=222%20East%204th%20Avenue%2C%20
San%20Mateo#searchresultsanchor  
 
Geosync Consultants. Phase I Environmental Site Assessment: 200-222 East 4th Avenue. May 2, 
2019.  
 
Monarch Consulting Arborists. Tree Inventory, Assessment, and Protection Report – 222 E. 4th 
Street. October 20, 2021.  
 
Office of Planning and Research. “CEQA Review of Housing Projects Technical Advisory.” 
Accessed April 13, 2022. https://opr.ca.gov/docs/20190208-TechAdvisory-
Review_of_Housing_Exemptions.pdf.  
381 of 1252

--- page 382 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
187 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Peninsula Clean Energy. “Frequently Asked Questions.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/faq/.  
 
Ramboll. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for 222 East 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project. 
August 1, 2022.  
 
RMD Environmental Solutions. Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report – 222 East 4th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California. July 7, 2021.  
 
RMD Environmental Solutions. Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report Conclusions and 
Responses to City of San Mateo Questions. Letter. October 14, 2022.  
 
San Mateo – Foster City School Board. Projected Enrollments 2017-18 to 2024-25. March 8, 2018. 
 
San Mateo 2030 General Plan, Safety Element. October 2010. 
 
San Mateo Clean Water Program. Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather 
Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion Project. November 2017.  
 
San Mateo County. General Plan. November 1986. 
 
San Mateo Union High School District. “School Locator”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
https://www.smuhsd.org/Page/2314  
 
San Mateo-Foster City School District. “Current Boundary Lookup”. Accessed April 18, 2022. 
http://www.schfinder.com/Lookup.aspx?DistrictID=0634920_2021a  
 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. National Wetlands Inventory Surface Waters and Wetlands. 
Accessed April 8, 2022. https://www.fws.gov/wetlands/data/mapper.html.  
 
United States Department of Energy. Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007. Accessed 
September 9, 2022. http://www.afdc.energy.gov/laws/eisa.  
 
United States Department of the Interior. “Memorandum M-37050. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
Does Not Prohibit Incidental Take.” Accessed April 7, 2022. 
https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/uploads/m-37050.pdf.  
 
United States Department of Transportation. USDOT Announces New Vehicle Fuel Economy 
Standards for Model Year 2024-2026.” Accessed September 9, 2022. 
https://www.nhtsa.gov/press-releases/usdot-announces-new-vehicle-fuel-economy-standards-
model-year-2024-2026  
 
United States Energy Information Administration. “State Profile and Energy Estimates, 2020.” 
Accessed September 5, 2022. https://www.eia.gov/state/?sid=CA#tabs-2. 
 
382 of 1252

--- page 383 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
188 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
United States Environmental Protection Agency. “Summary of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act.” Accessed April 11, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/laws-regulations/summary-
resource-conservation-and-recovery-act.  
 
United States Environmental Protection Agency. “Superfund: CERCLA Overview.” Accessed April 
11, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/superfund/superfund-cercla-overview.  
 
United States Environmental Protection Agency. “The 2021 EPA Automotive Trends Report: 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Fuel Economy, and Technology since 1975.” November 2021. 
https://nepis.epa.gov/Exe/ZyPDF.cgi?Dockey=P1010U68.pdf  
 
 
 
 
383 of 1252

--- page 384 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
189 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 6.0   
LEAD AGENCY AND CONSULTANTS 
 
LEAD AGENCY  
City of San Mateo 
Planning Division 
 
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator 
 
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner 
 
 
CONSULTANTS  
David J. Powers & Associates, Inc.  
Environmental Consultants and Planners  
 
 
Akoni Danielsen, President and Principal Project Manager 
 
Connor Tutino, Associate Project Manager 
 
Ryan Osako, Graphic Artist 
 
Ramboll 
Air Quality Consultants  
 
Michael Keinath, Principal 
 
Ivy Tao, Senior Consultant 
 
Monarch Consulting Arborists 
Biological Resources Consultant 
 
Richard Gessner, Consulting Arborist, ISA Board Certified Master Arborist 
 
Basin Research Associates 
Cultural Resources Consultants 
 
Colin Busby, Principal 
 
 
Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. 
Geotechnical Consultants 
 
Scott Fitinghoff, Principal Engineer 
 
Nicholas Devlin, Senior Project Engineer 
 
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
Greenhouse Gas Consultants 
 
Seth Myers, Air Quality/Noise Task Manager 
 
Geosyntec Consultants, Inc. 
Hazardous Materials Consultants 
 
Kimberly Brandt, Senior Geologist 
 
 
RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc. 
Hazardous Materials Consultants 
 
Kirsten Duey, Principal Engineer 
384 of 1252

--- page 385 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
190 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
 
Owen Ratchye, Senior Engineer 
 
Erin Male, Project Geologist 
 
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. 
Noise Consultants 
 
Michael Thill, Principal 
 
Carrie Janello, Senior Consultant 
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
Transportation Consultants 
 
Anusha Musunuru, Senior Engineering Associate 
Sophia Semensky, Transportation Analyst 
 
 
 
385 of 1252

--- page 386 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
191 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
SECTION 7.0   
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
ABAG 
Association of Bay Area Governments 
ACM 
asbestos containing materials 
ADT 
average daily traffic 
APN 
Assessor Parcel Number 
BAAQMD 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
CAP 
climate action plan 
CALGreen 
California Green Building Standards Code 
Caltrans 
California Department of Transportation 
CalARP 
California Accidental Release Prevention 
CalEPA 
California Environmental Protection Agency 
CAL FIRE 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection 
Cal/OSHA 
California Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety 
and Health 
CARB 
California Air Resources Board 
CDFW 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife 
CEQA 
California Environmental Quality Act 
CGS 
California Geological Survey 
CFR 
Code of Federal Regulations 
CNDDB 
California Natural Diversity Database 
CRHR 
California Register of Historical Resources 
CUPA 
Certified Unified Program Agency 
DTSC 
Department of Toxic Substances Control 
DPM 
Diesel particulate matter 
EIR 
Environmental Impact Report 
EPA 
United States Environmental Protection Agency 
ESL 
Environmental screening level 
ESMP 
Environmental Site Management Plan 
FAA 
Federal Aviation Administration 
FEMA 
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
FMMP 
Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program 
GHG 
Greenhouse gas 
GWh 
gigawatt-hours 
386 of 1252

--- page 387 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
192 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
GWP 
global warming potential 
LID 
Low Impact Development 
LOS 
Level of service 
MBTA 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
MEI 
maximally exposed individual 
MND 
Mitigated Negative Declaration  
mpg 
miles-per-gallon 
MTC 
Metropolitan Transportation Commission 
NHPA 
National Historic Preservation Act 
NHRP 
National Register of Historic Places 
NOD 
Notice of Determination  
NPDES 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
PCB 
Polychlorinated biphenyls 
PDA 
Priority Development Areas 
PCE 
Peninsula Clean Energy 
RCRA 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
RWQCB 
Regional Water Quality Control Board 
RHNA 
Regional Housing Need Allocation 
ROG 
reactive organic gases 
RWQCB 
Regional Water Quality Control Board 
SCS 
Sustainable Communities Strategy 
SHMA 
Seismic Hazards Mapping Act 
SMFD 
San Mateo Fire Department 
SMPD 
San Mateo Police Department 
SMUHSD 
San Mateo Union High School District 
SPAR 
Site Plan and Architectural Review 
SWRCB 
State Water Resources Control Board 
SWPPP 
Stormwater pollution prevention plan 
TAC 
Toxic Air Contaminants 
TCR 
Tribal Cultural Resource 
TDM 
Transportation Demand Management 
USACE 
United States Army Corps of Engineers 
USFWS 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
387 of 1252

--- page 388 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use 
193 
Addendum - GP EIR and DASP IS/MND  
City of San Mateo  
 
November 2022 
UST 
Underground storage tank 
UWMP 
Urban Water Management Plan 
VMT  
Vehicle miles traveled 
VOC 
volatile organic compound 
 
388 of 1252

--- page 389 ---
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM  
and  
Conditions of Approval 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
 
PA-2021-071 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 
November 2022 
 
 
389 of 1252

--- page 390 ---
P R E F A C E 
 
Section 21081 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the 
environment. The purpose of the monitoring and reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project 
implementation. 
 
The Addendum for the 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project concluded that the implementation of the project could result in significant 
effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project or are required as a condition of project 
approval. This Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be 
implemented. 
 
This document also includes the City’s Conditions of Approval identified in the CEQA analysis as measures that would minimize 
potential adverse effects that could result from implementation of the project, and to ensure these conditions are implemented and 
monitored. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
390 of 1252

--- page 391 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 1 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Mitigation Measures 
AIR QUALITY 
MM AIR-3.1: 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a 
construction management plan to the Building Division that 
demonstrates that all cranes, forklifts, generator sets, and welders used 
in project construction shall be equipped with Tier 4 diesel engines or 
better (e.g., natural gas generators or electric welders).  
 
Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall also 
submit an emissions reduction plan to the Planning Division that 
details the equipment to be used during construction and be signed by 
a qualified air quality specialist, verifying that the equipment included 
in the plan meets the standards set forth in this measure (i.e., Tier 4 or 
better).  
 
 
Alternatively, if use of Tier 4 equipment is not available, the applicant 
may propose use of equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission 
standards for Tier 3 engines and include particulate matter emissions 
control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel emission control 
devices Alternatively, the project may also use electrical or non-diesel 
fueled equipment. All construction vehicles shall be properly 
maintained and equipped with exhaust mufflers that meet State 
standards. 
 
The construction management plan and emissions reduction plan are 
subject to review and approval of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. 
 
Prior to issuance 
of any demolition 
or construction 
permits. 
Project 
applicant/project 
contractors 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
391 of 1252

--- page 392 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 2 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development 
permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall 
submit a phasing plan to the City’s Planning Division with a schedule 
of both on-site and off-site demolition and construction activities to 
review the activities that may occur during the nesting season subject 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. The nesting season for most birds, including most raptors in 
the San Francisco Bay area, extends from February 1 through August 
31 (inclusive). 
 
MM BIO-1.2: 
If any demolition and construction are scheduled during the nesting 
season, between February 1 and August 31 (inclusive), the applicant 
shall engage a qualified ornithologist to complete a pre-construction 
survey for nesting birds to ensure that no nests are disturbed during 
demolition or construction. During this survey, the ornithologist shall 
inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats immediately 
adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This survey shall be 
completed no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of any 
construction or demolition activities during the early part of the 
breeding season (February 1 through April 30 inclusive) and no more 
than 30 days prior to the initiation of these activities during the late 
part of the breeding season (May 1 through August 31 inclusive). 
 
 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be 
disturbed by construction (typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet 
for other species), the ornithologist, in consultation with the California 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the 
issuance of the 
first building 
permit or site 
development 
permit for tree 
removal. 
 
 
MM BIO-1.2: 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition- or 
construction-
related permits. 
Project Applicant;  
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
California 
Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
392 of 1252

--- page 393 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 3 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the extent of a 
construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to 
ensure that bird nests shall not be disturbed during project 
construction. 
 
 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit or site development 
permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the ornithologist 
shall submit a report indicating the results of the survey and any 
designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her 
designee should demolition and construction activities occur during 
the nesting season. 
 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
MM CUL-2.1: 
Prior to the issuance of any building permit involving excavation, 
shoring, foundation, or the superstructure, the project applicant 
shall hire a qualified Professional Archaeologist to develop a 
Worker’s Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train the 
construction crew on the legal requirements for the treatment of 
cultural resources as well as procedures to follow in the event of a 
cultural resources discovery. This training program shall be given 
to the crew before ground disturbing work commences and shall 
include handouts to be given to new workers. 
 
MM CUL-2.2: 
The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require 
ground disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing 
buried cultural resources including prehistoric Native American 
burials. 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant; 
Professional 
Archaeologist  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
393 of 1252

--- page 394 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 4 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
MM CUL-2.3: 
If any prehistoric or significant historic period cultural materials 
are exposed during construction grading and/or excavation 
whether on-site or off-site, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 50 feet of the find, and the Professional 
Archaeologist shall provide identification, evaluation, and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo 
requirements. 
 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural 
resources exposed during construction constitute a historical 
resource and/or unique archaeological resource under CEQA, the 
applicant shall notify the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, and provide avoidance, preservation in-place, 
recordation, additional archaeological testing and data recovery 
measures to reduce impacts to a less than significant level. The 
applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological Monitoring 
Plan (AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan (ATP) that 
includes data recovery if significant archaeological deposits are 
exposed during ground disturbing construction. The applicant 
shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to the City’s Planning Division 
subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. Development and implementation 
of the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant cultural 
resources will be determined by the applicant in consultation with 
the California Office of Historic Preservation and the City of San 
Mateo. 
 
MM CUL-2.3: 
During 
construction 
grading and/or 
excavation. 
 
Project Applicant; 
Professional 
Archaeologist 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
394 of 1252

--- page 395 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 5 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
MM CUL-3.1: 
In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation 
and/or grading whether on-site or within the public right-of-way, 
the applicant shall halt all activity within a 50-foot radius of the 
find and notify the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. The applicant shall also immediately notify San Mateo 
County Coroner to have a determination made as to whether the 
remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation 
into the cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains 
and any associated or unassociated funerary objects discovered 
during any soil-disturbing activity within the project site shall 
comply with applicable State laws (i.e., Native American burials, 
Chapter 1492, Section 7050.5 to the Health and Safety Code, 
Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the Public Resources 
Code). If the remains are determined to be Native American, the 
Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission 
(NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely 
descendants, the descendants will make recommendations 
regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance 
with Section 15064.5€ of the CEQA Guidelines. 
During 
construction 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor;  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
San Mateo 
County Coroner 
Native American 
Heritage 
Commission 
NOISE 
MM NOI-1.1:  
The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction 
equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing 
sensitive receptors. Construction equipment shall be well-maintained 
and used judiciously to be as quiet as possible. Additionally, the 
applicant and contractor shall incorporate the following best 
management practices to reduce noise from construction activities on 
nearby sensitive land uses: 
Construction plan 
prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition 
permits. 
Project Applicant; 
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
395 of 1252

--- page 396 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 6 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(A)
(B)
(C)
The applicant and/or contractor shall prepare a detailed 
construction plan identifying the schedule for major noise-
generating construction activities. The construction plan shall 
identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land 
uses so that construction activities can be scheduled to minimize 
noise disturbance. This construction plan shall be submitted to the 
Building Division subject to the review and satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee prior to the 
issuance of a demolition permit.
The applicant and/or contractor shall designate a “disturbance 
coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any 
complaints about construction noise and vibrations. The 
disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise 
complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures 
be implemented to reduce the noise impact. The applicant and/or 
contractor shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the 
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it in the 
notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule.
Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will 
create the greatest distance between the construction-related noise 
sources and noise-sensitive receptors nearest the project site during 
all project construction. 
Prior to issuance of 
a demolition 
permit 
During 
construction 
During 
construction 
396 of 1252

--- page 397 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 7 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(F) Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air
compressors or portable power generators, as far as possible from
sensitive receptors and property lines. If they must be located
within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling
(with barriers or enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall
be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors.
(G) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet”
air compressors and other stationary noise sources where
technology exists.
(H) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where
they are not audible at existing residences surrounding the project
site, the nearest of which are 90 feet to the southeast.
During 
construction 
During 
construction 
During 
construction 
During 
construction 
During 
construction 
(D) Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with  
 
 
       intake and exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and 
       appropriate for the equipment.
(E) Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines shall be 
       strictly prohibited.
397 of 1252

--- page 398 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
Page 8 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Conditions of Approval 
AIR QUALITY 
•
All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas,
and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day.
•
Construction grading activities shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive
neighborhood dust problems.
•
All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material to and from the
project site shall be covered in accordance with Section 23114 of the California
Vehicle Code.
•
All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed
using wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry
power sweeping is prohibited.
•
All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph).
•
All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon
as possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless
seeding or soil binders are used.
•
Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use
or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California
airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of
Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for construction workers at
all access points.
•
All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance
with manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified
mechanic and determined to be running in proper condition prior to operation.
Prior to issuance 
of any demolition 
or construction 
permits. 
Project 
applicant/project 
contractors 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
398 of 1252

--- page 399 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 9 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
• 
Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
Lead Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take 
corrective action within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be 
visible to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. 
 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
Prior to issuance to of building permits for demolition, shoring, foundation, or site 
development (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall obtain a Site Development 
Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing trees with a 
diameter of six inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site Development Permit for tree 
removal shall authorize the applicant to replace on-site and street trees equivalent or 
greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by planting on-site and 
street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of both. 
 
Prior to issuance 
to of building 
permits for 
demolition, 
shoring, 
foundation, or site 
development 
(whichever occurs 
first) 
 
Project Applicant;  
Project Contractor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS 
For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the project applicant 
shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm Permit (General 
Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) for 
stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To obtain coverage, the 
project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources 
Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity NPDES 
Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public Works Department along with a 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP 
designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit. 
 
The applicant must obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction 
permit, paying the required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
399 of 1252

--- page 400 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 10 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
associated with the stormwater pollution prevention program in accordance with San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The fee amount will be based upon the City 
Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is made. 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the discovery of paleontological resources (fossils) on the project site or in 
the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction activities within 50 feet of 
the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified 
paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall 
evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written report documenting the find and 
recommending further courses of action, and submit a summary of findings to the Project 
Planner. Following City acceptance of the report and proposed recommendations, the 
applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing 
construction. 
 
During 
construction 
grading and/or 
excavation. 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
Prior to conducting earthwork activities at the project site, a Site Management Plan 
(SMP) and Health and Safety Plan (HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose of these 
documents will be to establish appropriate management practices for handling impacted 
soil, soil vapor and groundwater that may be encountered during construction activities. 
Based on the history of the project site, areas of impacted soil, soil vapor, and/or 
groundwater may be encountered during construction activities. The SMP shall be 
submitted to the County of San Mateo Health Service Agency (CSMHSA) for review, 
and CSMHSA approval shall be obtained prior to commencing earthwork activities at the 
project site. Proof of CSMHSA approval shall be provided to the City Community 
Development Department prior to issuance of an excavation permit. 
 
Prior to dewatering during project construction, a Discharge Plan shall be prepared and 
submitted to the Director of Public Works for approval. The Discharge Plan shall include 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
County of San 
Mateo Health 
Service Agency 
 
Discharge Plan: 
Director of 
Public Works or 
400 of 1252

--- page 401 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 11 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
the carbon treatment of groundwater on-site to remediate the presence of TPHd prior to 
discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains.  
 
the Director’s 
designee; 
 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY 
 
 
 
Construction best management practices (BMPs) shall be implemented for reducing the 
volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the maximum extent practicable during site 
excavation, grading, and construction. In accordance with the City’s standards, these 
BMPs will include, but will not be limited to:  
 
• 
Avoid or minimize excavation and grading activities during wet weather, 
unless the City approves a winter erosion control plan submitted by the 
applicant.  
• 
Use effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during the 
construction periods. Provide temporary cover of all disturbed surfaces to 
help control erosion during construction. 
• 
Provide permanent cover as soon as is practical to stabilize the disturbed 
surfaces after construction has been completed. 
• 
Protect existing storm drain inlets in the project area from sedimentation 
with filter fabric fences gravel bags block and gravel filters.  
• 
Cover and stabilize stockpiled soil and materials with tarps, geotextile 
fabric, hydroseeding and/or erosion control blankets 
• 
Install berms or silt fencing around stockpiled materials to prevent 
stormwater runoff from transporting sediment off-site  
 
The applicant shall comply with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) 
Construction permit requirements and prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan 
(SWPPP) (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.39).  
 
During project 
construction;  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
401 of 1252

--- page 402 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 12 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
The design groundwater level on-site is assumed to be 18 feet bgs. The project would 
excavate to a depth of approximately 25 feet to accommodate the proposed below-grade 
parking garage. Therefore, it is likely that the project would require dewatering of 
subsurface groundwater during construction. In accordance with the City’s Municipal 
Code (SMMC 7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the discharge of 
ground waters to the sanitary sewer if the source is deemed unacceptable by State and 
Federal authorities for discharge to surface waters of the United States, whether 
pretreated or untreated, and for which no reasonable alternative method of disposal is 
available. As required by MM HAZ-2.2 to be implemented during dewatering, carbon 
treatment of groundwater shall be required to remediate the presence of TPHd prior to 
discharge to the storm or sanitary sewer drains. Following the verification of the 
applicable local, state and/or federal approvals, a Discharge Plan will be approved and 
monitored by the Public Works Department. 
 
Discharge Plan 
approved prior to 
the issuance of 
any building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
The project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity 
Storm Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control 
Board (SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction activity. To 
obtain coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State 
Water Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction 
Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public Works 
Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a 
qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit. 
 
In accordance with the Director of Public Works Groundwater Discharge Policy, 
discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary sewer is only allowed on a 
temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater than six months. 
Discharges for longer than six months must obtain an NPDES permit from the State 
Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. No discharge to the storm drain is 
allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the 
Proof of permit 
provided prior to 
the issuance of 
any building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
402 of 1252

--- page 403 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 13 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and 
must comply with the City’s discharge limits. 
 
The project shall implement site design and source control BMPs for minimizing the 
volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the extent practicable, per the MRP. These 
BMPs may include the following: 
 
• 
Disconnected downspouts that are directed into landscape areas; 
• 
Minimization of impervious surfaces and increased use of permeable pavement 
where feasible; 
• 
Location of all storm drain inlets to be stenciled with, “No Dumping! Flows to 
Bay” to discourage illegal dumping; 
• 
Location and design of trash enclosures (all shall be covered) and materials 
handling areas;  
• 
Use of effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during post-
construction periods. 
 
 
 
 
 
BMPs to be 
implemented 
during project 
construction 
 
 
 
 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
NOISE 
The applicant shall specify acoustical treatments in the building permit plans for the 
superstructure in compliance with State Building Codes, the City’s Noise Ordinance, and 
General Plan. The applicant shall also submit an acoustical analysis prepared by a 
professional acoustical consultant to ensure that the design incorporates controls to reduce 
interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower within the residential units and to 50 dBA 
Leq(1-hr) or lower within nonresidential interiors subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall conform with 
any special building construction techniques noted in the project’s acoustical analysis, 
which may include sound-rated windows and doors, sound-rated wall constructions, and 
acoustical caulking. The acoustical analysis and building permit plans shall specify the 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
403 of 1252

--- page 404 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 14 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
following noise insulation features to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less at 
residential interiors:  
 
• 
Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, for all 
residential units on the project site, so that windows can be kept closed at the 
occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and achieve the interior noise 
standards. 
• 
Preliminary calculations indicate that all residential units would require windows 
and doors with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced-air mechanical 
ventilation to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 
PUBLIC SERVICES 
The following Condition of Approval would be implemented by the project to ensure the 
project does not result in significant impacts to park facilities in the City: 
 
• 
The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-
lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) 
(SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the 
final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for 
the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee shall be paid prior to the release of the 
final map for recordation and the park impact fee shall be paid prior to the 
issuance of the building permit. If a project with an approved tentative map is 
issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, the applicant shall 
be subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior to the issuance of the 
first building superstructure permit. 
 
 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
 
404 of 1252

--- page 405 ---
222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program and Conditions of Approval 
 
Page 15 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
222 E. 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-071) 
Mitigation/Condition of Approval 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS 
In order to meet the increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by 
this project, the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the 
average projected sanitary flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. 
 
The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to the project’s share of the increased 
amount of sewage generated by the project, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works 
Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee 
shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. 
Prior to issuance of 
building permit 
Project Applicant 
Director of 
Public Works or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
SOURCE:  City of San Mateo. 222 E. 4th Avenue Mixed-Use Addendum to the General Plan EIR and Downtown Area Specific Plan IS/MND. November 2022. 
405 of 1252

--- page 406 ---
1/9 
 
 
 
Ramboll  
2200 Powell Street 
Suite 700 
Emeryville, CA  94608 
USA 
 
T +1 510 655 7400 
F +1 510 655 9517 
www.ramboll.com 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
Date: 
August 1, 2022 
To: 
Connor Tutino, Associate Project Manager, David J Powers & 
Associates 
From: 
Michael Keinath 
Subject: 
CEQA AIR QUALITY AND HEALTH RISK ASSESSMENT FOR 222 
EAST 4TH AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT, SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA 
 
Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. (Ramboll) conducted California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA) air quality and health risk analyses for the proposed 222 East 4th 
Avenue Mixed-Use Project in San Mateo, California (the “Project”).  
According to the Project sponsor, the Project would redevelop the site with a new 
five-story, approximately 155,346 052 square-foot mixed-use building with two 
levels of below-grade parking. The building would consist of approximately 104,755 
square-feet of office space, 17,658 square-feet of retail space, and 8,938 square-
feet of residential space. The residential space would be split between the ground 
floor (i.e., residential lobby/elevator) and the fifth floor living areas. Nearby uses to 
the site include residential uses and commercial uses surrounding the building in all 
directions; California State Highway 82 to the west; and U.S Route 101 and 
Caltrain/ heavy rail tracks to the east. The Project would include an emergency 
generator during operation. 
The proposed land uses at the Project site are listed in Table 1. 
CEQA THRESHOLDS OF SIGNIFICANCE 
The City of San Mateo is the lead agency responsible for Project approval. Per City 
of San Mateo requirements, Ramboll evaluated the Project in accordance with the 
current Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) CEQA Guidelines, 
which were updated in May 2017 and 2022.1 These guidelines present methods for 
evaluating compliance with CEQA as well as thresholds for determining significance. 
With respect to the Project, the BAAQMD thresholds of significance are as follows: 
 
1 BAAQMD. 2017. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Air Quality Guidelines. May. 
Available online at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/ceqa_guidelines_may2017-pdf.pdf?la=en 
BAAQMD, 2022. Justification Report: CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the Significance of 
Climate Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans. April.  
406 of 1252

--- page 407 ---
2/9 
 
 BAAQMD CEQA Thresholds of Significance 
Criteria Air Pollutants  
(and Precursors) 
Construction- 
Related 
Average Daily 
Emissions 
(lbs/day) 
ROG 
54 
NOX 
54 
PM10  
82 (exhaust only) 
PM2.5  
54 (exhaust only) 
PM10/PM2.5 (fugitive dust) 
Best Management Practices 
CO (local concentration) 
None 
Health Risks 
Construction- and Operation-Related Risks and Hazards for New 
Sources and Receptors 
Individual Project 
Compliance with Qualified Community Risk Reduction Plan 
 
OR 
 
Increased cancer risk of >10.0 in a million 
Increased non-cancer risk of > 1.0 HI 
(chronic or acute) 
Ambient PM2.5 increase: > 0.3 µg/m3 annual average 
Zone of Influence: 1,000-foot radius from fence line of source or receptor 
Cumulative Threshold 
Compliance with Qualified Community Risk Reduction Plan 
 
OR 
 
Increased cancer risk of >100 in a million (from all local sources) 
Increased non-cancer risk of >10 HI (from all local sources) (chronic)  
Ambient PM2.5 increase: > 0.8 µg/m3 annual average (from all local sources)
 
Zone of Influence: 1,000-foot radius from fence line of source or receptor 
Odors 
None 
Abbreviations: 
CO = Carbon Monoxide 
Lbs = pounds 
MT of CO2e/yr = metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year 
MT CO2e/SP/yr = metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent per service population per year 
NOx = oxides of nitrogen 
PM2.5 = Particulate Matter less than 2.5 microns 
PM10 = Particulate Matter less than 2.5 microns 
ROG = Reactive Organic Gas 
µg/m3 = micrograms per cubic meter. 
 
407 of 1252

--- page 408 ---
3/9 
 
Since the City of San Mateo has separately arranged for a GHG analysis, this Technical Memorandum 
only evaluates construction Criteria Air Pollutants (CAP) emissions and health effects of TACs emitted 
during Project construction and operation, including a cumulative assessment from all sources within 
the zone of influence. The memorandum also includes the health effects of the Project’s emergency 
generator, in combination with offsite sources, on future onsite residents of the proposed Project.  
The BAAQMD operational emissions screening size for mid-rise apartments is 494 dwelling units and 
for general office building is 346,000 square feet. Because the Project is below both operational 
criteria pollutant screening levels, an operational CAP assessment is not included in this 
memorandum. 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS 
Unmitigated and mitigated construction emissions are presented in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively. 
As shown in the tables, both unmitigated and mitigated CAP emissions for construction are below the 
BAAQMD thresholds of significance. Construction emissions are reduced with the implementation of 
construction equipment mitigation, designed to mitigate the health risk impacts from the Project. 
Unmitigated and mitigated health risk impacts from the Project are shown in Table 4 and Table 5, 
respectively. Health risk impacts on a cumulative basis are shown in Table 6, respectively. 
Construction equipment control is required to reduce the project’s health risks impacts to below the 
BAAQMD thresholds of significance. The construction equipment mitigation requires 
tractors/loaders/backhoes, rubber tired dozers, water trucks, cranes, forklifts, and aerial lifts to use 
Tier 4 Final diesel engines. With the implementation of construction equipment mitigation, the 
mitigated health risk impacts are also below the BAAQMD thresholds of significance. 
DATA SOURCES AND EMISSIONS METHODOLOGIES 
The following sections describe the input data and methodologies used in the construction and 
operational emissions analysis. Detailed information for each section can be found in the referenced 
tables and appendices. 
Construction CAP Emissions Estimation 
Ramboll utilized the California Emission Estimator Model version 2020.4.0 (CalEEMod®)2 to quantify all 
construction CAP emissions. CalEEMod® is a statewide program designed to calculate both CAP and 
GHG emissions for development projects in California. CalEEMod® provides a simple platform to 
calculate both construction emissions and operational emissions from a land use project. It calculates 
both the daily maximum and annual average for CAPs as well as total or annual GHG emissions.  
CalEEMod® utilizes widely accepted models for emission estimates combined with appropriate default 
data that can be used if site-specific information is not available. CalEEMod® uses sources such as the 
US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) AP-42 emission factors,3 California Air Resources Board’s 
(CARB) on-road and off-road equipment emission models such as the EMission FACtor model (EMFAC) 
and the Emissions Inventory Program model (OFFROAD), and studies commissioned by California 
agencies such as the California Energy Commission (CEC) and CalRecycle.  
Construction emissions from the Project include both on-site, off-road heavy equipment as well as off-
site, on-road vehicle travel. As described below, Ramboll updated several default assumptions to 
 
2 California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2020. California Emissions Estimator Model. 
Available at: http://www.CalEEMod.com/.  
3 The USEPA maintains a compilation of Air pollutant Emission Factors and process information for several air 
pollution source categories. The data is based on source test data, material balance studies, and engineering 
estimates. Available at: http://epa.gov/ttnchie1/ap42/. 
408 of 1252

--- page 409 ---
4/9 
 
Project-specific information to generate emission estimates with CalEEMod®, for consistency with 
BAAQMD and California Air Pollution Control Officer Association (CAPCOA) methods. Where project-
specific data were not available, Ramboll used CalEEMod® defaults for the land uses shown in Table 
1. The construction phasing, equipment, and trip rate assumptions are shown in Tables 7, 8, and 9. 
It was assumed that construction would start as early as 2023. Under the unmitigated scenario, 
Project construction is assumed to use statewide fleet-average tier diesel engines for all equipment. 
Construction equipment during a given construction year in the OFFROAD model is a mix of Tier 1, 2, 
3, Tier 4 Interim and Tier 4 Final engines based on statewide equipment inventory for that given year.  
This assumes that the Project would use construction equipment as available and not specify a 
particular engine Tier level. Emissions from paving off-gas and architectural coating emissions were 
also estimated using methodologies consistent with CalEEMod® and summarized in Tables 10 and 
11.  
Updates to CalEEMod® Default Assumptions 
In preparing Project construction emissions, several updates were made to modify the CalEEMod® 
default factors and assumptions. These include the following areas: 
 
Under the mitigated scenario, Project construction is assumed to use fleet-average tier diesel 
engines for all equipment, except for tractors/loaders/backhoes, rubber tired dozers, water trucks, 
cranes, forklifts, and aerial lifts, which would use Tier 4 Final diesel engines or better (for example, 
this could include natural gas generators or electric welders). 
 
Off-road equipment hours were updated to reflect utilization of each equipment per phase as 
provided by the Project sponsor. 
 
Haul truck trips for demolition were calculated by CalEEMod® based on the amount of demolition 
required for construction. The haul truck trips for grading were estimated by the Project sponsor 
based on soil exported and imported during construction. These estimates are shown in Table 9.  
LOCAL COMMUNITY RISK AND HAZARD IMPACTS 
Local Carbon Monoxide (CO) Impacts 
According to the 2017 BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, the Project would result in less-than-significant 
localized CO concentrations if it meets the following criteria: 
1. Is consistent with county and local congestion management plans, and 
2. Does not increase traffic volumes at affected intersections to more than 24,000 vehicles per hour. 
Based on the traffic volume data provided by the Project sponsor (see Appendix A), the project 
would generate less vehicle trips per hour during morning and evening rush hours compared to the 
existing land uses on the project site. Thus, operational impacts from Project CO emissions would be 
less than significant.  
Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC) Emissions  
The TAC emissions associated with the Project construction were calculated with the following 
assumptions and exceptions: 
1. Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM): DPM emissions were used to evaluate the cancer risk and non-
cancer chronic HI from Project construction. In this analysis, both onsite (i.e., construction 
equipment) and local offsite (i.e., construction mobile sources) particulate matter less than 10 
409 of 1252

--- page 410 ---
5/9 
 
microns (PM10) exhaust emissions4 were calculated as DPM and modeled within the Project 
boundary (as discussed in the next section). This analysis also conservatively assumed the small 
fraction of non-diesel PM10 (i.e., PM10 emissions from gasoline fueled passenger vehicles) was 
DPM, which has greater human health impacts.  
2. PM2.5: Exhaust and fugitive particulate matter less 2.5 microns (PM2.5) emissions were used to 
evaluate the PM2.5 concentration due to the Project construction. Fugitive PM emissions were 
calculated using CalEEMod® methodologies as shown in Tables 12-14. The modeled emissions 
were calculated using the same conservative assumptions as the DPM calculation.  
Total modeled emissions are presented in Table 15 as total PM10 and PM2.5 from construction.  
TAC emissions from Project operation were estimated for the proposed emergency generator. Based 
on the model information provided by the Project sponsor, horsepower, exhaust temperature, outlet 
size and other data were collected from the model’s specification sheet.5 Project emissions for the 
emergency generators are based on the BAAQMD rule limiting the hours of non-emergency operation 
for emergency standby diesel engines to a maximum of 50 hours per year of testing and maintenance, 
which is consistent with the maximum allowed testing time from the Airborne Toxic Control Measure 
for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines.6 Annual emissions of PM10 and PM2.5 from the proposed 
generator were estimated using CalEEMod® default emission factors and 100% load. Similar to 
construction TAC sources, PM10 exhaust emissions from the proposed generator were conservatively 
calculated as DPM. Modelling parameters for the proposed emergency generator are summarized in 
Table 16.   
BAAQMD recommends analyzing TAC emissions from roadways with over 10,000 vehicles per day. As 
discussed above, per the traffic generation assessment conducted by the transportation consultant. 
(see Appendix A), the Project is expected to result in a net reduction of approximately 3,600 daily 
trips compared to the existing land uses on the Project site. Therefore, the Project would not generate 
10,000 vehicles per day, so TAC emissions from operational mobile sources is not needed.  
Health Risk Assessment  
Ramboll analyzed Project construction-related and operational health risks by estimating ambient air 
concentrations of DPM and PM2.5. To estimate air concentrations of DPM and PM2.5, Ramboll used 
AERMOD, a steady-state Gaussian plume model developed by USEPA for regulatory applications. 
AERMOD requires emission source locations and release parameters, receptor locations, and processed 
meteorological data. The construction and operational source parameters are shown in Table 17 and 
Table 16, respectively. Ramboll used five years of meteorological data from the San Francisco 
International Airport, which was the nearest dataset available to the Project. 
Turbulent eddies can form on the downwind side of buildings and may cause a plume from a stack or 
point source located near the building to be drawn towards the ground to a greater degree than if the 
building were not present. This is referred to as the “building downwash” effect. The effect can 
increase the resulting ground-level pollutant concentrations downwind of a building. AERMOD takes 
 
4 Local offsite (mobile source) emissions were conservatively calculated by including CalEEMod® on-road 
emissions for the entire default trip length in the screening model. 
5 Generac. SD 500 15.2L 500kW Industrial Diesel Generator Set. Available at: 
https://www.generac.com/generaccorporate/media/library/content/all-products/generators/industrial-
generators/diesel/0197160sby-b-sd500-15-2l-perkins.pdf?ext=.pdf. Accessed: May 2022.  
6 California Air Resources Board (CARB). 2011. Final Regulations Order: Amendments to the Airborne Toxic 
Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines. Available at: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/classic/diesel/documents/finalreg2011.pdf. Accessed: March 2022. 
410 of 1252

--- page 411 ---
6/9 
 
this effect into account for sources modeled as point sources. The dimensions and locations of the 
Project and the multi-story residential building adjacent to and south of the Project site were included, 
as shown in Figure 1, to allow AERMOD to incorporate algorithms to evaluate the downwash effect on 
dispersion of point sources. Building heights were obtained from the plans of the proposed Project and 
the adjacent buildings. The direction-specific building downwash dimensions were determined by the 
latest version (04274) of the Building Profile Input Program, PRIME (BPIP PRIME). Point sources were 
used only to model the Project generator, so building downwash was only evaluated in the Project 
operational generator modeling. 
The AERMOD input files are provided electronically as Appendix B. The receptor, source and building 
setup are shown in Figure 1. It should be noted that the receptor heights at different floors were 
considered for the multi-family residential building to the south of the Project and the future on-site 
receptors on the Project site, while all other receptors are at ground-level. 
Modeled Emissions 
Based on the construction schedule provided by the Project sponsor, the Project will be completed in 
one phase. All emissions from Project construction were summed by year and modeled on an annual 
basis for off-site receptors. These modeled emission rates are shown in Table 15. 
Exposure Parameters and Cancer Risk Calculation 
In February 2015, Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) released the updated 
Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments, which 
combines information from previously-released and adopted technical support documents to delineate 
OEHHA’s revised risk assessment methodologies based on current science.7 The BAAQMD has issued 
HRA Guidelines formally adopting the OEHHA 2015 Guidance Manual.8 This analysis followed the 
recommended methodology from the 2015 OEHHA Hot Spots Guidance.  
Ramboll conservatively evaluated Project impacts due to construction emissions using default 
exposure assumptions for a resident child from OEHHAunless otherwise noted.9 The resident child 
scenario assumes a much higher daily breathing rate and age-sensitivity factor (ASF)10 than other 
sensitive receptor populations and therefore is the most conservative scenario to evaluate for this 
analysis. For the construction and operation exposure scenario, off-site residential receptors exposed 
to the entire construction period and 30 years of Project operation were evaluated to determine the 
maximum health impacts of the Project; for the operation-only scenario, the Project residential 
receptors were assumed to be exposed at the start of Project operation for 30 years. Other sensitive 
receptor locations were identified using a report from Environmental Data Resources (EDR). The EDR 
report identified daycares, childcares, and elementary schools in Project vicinity. Exposure periods for 
each of the non-residential sensitive land uses are assumed to be the same as the age range accepted 
at the location. The exposure parameters used to estimate excess lifetime cancer risks for the nearby 
sensitive receptors are presented in Tables 18. 
The dose estimated for each exposure pathway is a function of the concentration of a chemical and 
the intake of that chemical. The intake factor for inhalation, IFinh, can be calculated as follows: 
IFinh = DBR * FAH * EF * ED * CF * ASF * FY 
 
7 OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of 
Health Risk Assessments. February. 
8  BAAQMD, 2020. Health Risk Assessment Modeling Protocol. December.   
9 BAAQMD. 2010. BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA) Guidelines. January. 
10 Ibid. 
411 of 1252

--- page 412 ---
7/9 
 
              AT 
Where: 
IFinh = 
Intake Factor for Inhalation (m3/kg-day) 
DBR = 
Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day) 
FAH = 
Fraction of Time at Home (unitless) 
EF 
= 
Exposure Frequency (days/year) 
ED 
= 
Exposure Duration (years) 
AT 
= 
Averaging Time (days) 
CF  = 
Conversion Factor, 0.001 (m3/L) 
ASF = 
Age Sensitivity Factor (unitless) 
FY 
= 
Fraction of Year, to correct annualization of partial year emissions 
The chemical intake or dose is estimated by multiplying the inhalation intake factor, IFinh, by the 
chemical concentration in air, Ci. When coupled with the chemical concentration, this calculation is 
mathematically equivalent to the dose algorithm given in the OEHHA Hot Spots guidance.11 
The toxicity assessment characterizes the relationship between the magnitude of exposure and the 
nature and magnitude of adverse health effects that may result from such exposure. This HRA 
evaluated theoretical exposures to TACs for two categories of potential adverse health effects, cancer 
and non-cancer endpoints. Toxicity values used to estimate the likelihood of adverse effects occurring 
in humans at different exposure levels are identified as part of the toxicity assessment component of a 
risk assessment. 
Excess lifetime cancer risk and chronic hazard quotient (HQs) calculations for Project construction and 
operation utilized the toxicity values for DPM. Toxicity values for DPM are as presented in Table 19. 
Cancer risk and chronic HI were calculated from ambient annual concentrations using intake factors, 
cancer potency factors, and chronic reference exposure levels calculated consistent with the 2015 
OEHHA Hot Spots Guidance12 and 2020 BAAQMD guidance.13  
As shown in Table 4, the unmitigated cancer risk from Project construction and operation at the 
maximally exposed individual resident (MEIR) receptor is calculated to be 45.5 in 1 million, which 
would exceed the BAAQMD’s threshold of 10 in 1 million. The unmitigated cancer at the maximally 
exposed individual student (MEIS) receptor is calculated to be 0.5 in 1 million, which would not exceed 
the applicable threshold. Unmitigated construction activities and operation would result in a non-
cancer hazard index of 0.03 (threshold of 1.0), and maximum PM2.5 concentration of 0.05 micrograms 
per cubic meter (µg/m3) (threshold of 0.3 µg/m3) at the MEIR. As shown in Table 5, mitigated 
construction activities and operation would also result in a non-cancer hazard index of less than 0.01 
and maximum PM2.5 concentration less than 0.01 µg/m3 at the MEIS. Project operation would also 
result in a maximum cancer risk of 2.8 in 1 million, a non-cancer hazard index less than 0.01, and 
maximum PM2.5 concentration less than 0.01 µg/m3 at the Project’s MEIR.  
 
11 Cal/EPA. 2003. The Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. 
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. August. 
12 OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of 
Health Risk Assessments. February.  
13 BAAQMD, 2020. Health Risk Assessment Modeling Protocol. December.   
412 of 1252

--- page 413 ---
8/9 
 
Under the mitigated scenario, the cancer risk from Project construction and operation at the MEIR 
receptor is calculated to be 9.1 in 1 million. The other health risks under the mitigated scenario at the 
MEIR and MEIS are also shown in Table 5 and are below the BAAQMD thresholds. Therefore, with the 
use of Tier 4 Final diesel engines, or equivalent lower emitting equipment, for 
tractors/loaders/backhoes, rubber tired dozers, water trucks, cranes, forklifts, and aerial lifts, the 
Project’s health risks on on-site and off-site sensitive receptors are all below the BAAQMD thresholds 
of significance; thus, health risk impacts associated with construction and operation of the Project are 
less than significant with the engine tier requirement as a mitigation measure. There may be other 
methods for reducing emissions below thresholds (e.g., implementing Tier 4 Final requirements on 
other categories of equipment), but further analysis would be necessary to confirm they would meet 
the threshold.  The location of the off-site MEIR and MEIS, and the on-site MEIR is shown in Figure 2.  
Cumulative Health Risk Assessment 
In accordance with BAAQMD CEQA guidelines, Ramboll conducted a cumulative HRA for both offsite 
sensitive receptors and new onsite sensitive receptors created by the Project. The cumulative 
assessment tabulates the impact of Project-related risks plus existing offsite sources (stationary and 
mobile) at the off-site and on-site MEIR locations. The cumulative assessment for onsite receptors is 
determined at the location of the maximum total risk from the proposed emergency generator. The 
evaluation requires the identification of any stationary and mobile sources within 1,000 feet of the 
Project boundary. In addition to the evaluation of each single source, the combined health risk from all 
TAC and PM2.5 sources are evaluated. 
Sources evaluated in the cumulative health risk assessment include any BAAQMD permitted stationary 
source, roadways with over 10,000 vehicles per day, and any other major source of emissions within 
the zone of influence such as railways. The BAAQMD provides tools with conservative estimates of 
impacts from these sources, including a stationary source tool and raster files for railways major 
streets, and highways. The preliminary health risk screening values from the existing stationary 
sources on the MEIRs were determined using the BAAQMD’s Health Risk Calculator (Beta Version 4.0)14 
and the stationary source information provided by the BAAQMD.15 One foreseeable future stationary 
source (emergency generator at the proposed development at 500 East 3rd Ave) was also included in 
the cumulative HRA. The preliminary health risk screening values from the stationary sources 
considered in the cumulative HRA are presented in Table 20.  
BAAQMD’s highway raster file includes impacts from highways in the Bay Area while the major street 
raster file includes impacts from all roadways with daily traffic above 30,000 vehicles per day. 
BAAQMD previously had a roadway screening analysis calculator that could be used to calculate 
impacts of roadways between 10,000 and 30,000 vehicles per day, but BAAQMD has since removed 
this roadway screening analysis calculator from their website. There is currently no alternative 
BAAQMD tool available for quantifying these results. There are no roadways with daily traffic between 
10,000 and 30,000 vehicles per day within 1,000 feet of the MEIRs so the impacts from roadways with 
daily traffic below 30,000 vehicles per day were not calculated. 
The raster files and stationary source screening tools were used to estimate the health impacts from 
all highways, major streets, railways, and stationary sources and combined with the impacts from all 
other sources at the construction offsite MEIR and on-site cumulative MEIR. 
 
14 BAAQMD, 2019. BAAQMD Risk and Hazards Emissions Screening Calculator, Version 4.0 Beta. Available at: 
https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/tools/baaqmd-health-risk-calculator-beta-4-
0-xlsx.xlsx?la=fil-ph. September 19.  
15 BAAQMD. 2022. Personal Communication from Matthew Hanson to Carlos Ciudad-Real. March 25. 
413 of 1252

--- page 414 ---
9/9 
 
Details of each source included in the cumulative analysis are presented in Table 6. The combined 
impact from all the sources results in a cancer risk of 20 in 1 million at the on-site MEIR. The 
combined impact from all the sources results in an unmitigated cancer risk of 62 in 1 million and a 
mitigated cancer risk of 25 in a million at the off-site MEIR, compared to a threshold of 100 in 1 
million. The combined non-cancer hazard index at all sensitive receptors are less than 0.1 (threshold 
of 10). The combined maximum PM2.5 concentrations are 0.19 µg/m3 at the on-site MEIR and 1.3 
µg/m3 at the off-site MEIR under the mitigated scenario, compared to a threshold of 0.8 µg/m3). This 
would be considered a significant cumulative impact.  
The primary contributor to the cumulative PM2.5 concentration at the off-site MEIR is a lumber 
company with woodwork operation, located about 850 feet from the off-site MEIR and contributing 
approximately 1.1 µg/m3 (80%). This stationary source with BAAQMD Facility Number 9555 caused 
the exceedance of the cumulative PM2.5 concentrations over the cumulative threshold of 0.8 µg/m3. 
BAAQMD provides generalized risk estimates and estimated PM2.5 concentrations for the existing 
stationary sources, which represents a screening-level analysis based on the size and type of activity 
that occurs on site. Therefore, the identified concentrations and risks are conservative. If this 
stationary source were not operational, there would be no cumulative impact associated with the 
Project and the rest of the cumulative sources. Further, the Project’s contribution from construction 
activities would be temporary and are below the single source (Project level) thresholds. Therefore, 
the Project would not result in a cumulatively considerable contribution to the significant impact.  
CLOSING 
The analysis presented above represents emissions and health risk impacts from construction of the 
proposed Project. The Project does not exceed any BAAQMD CEQA significance thresholds, with the 
mitigation measure requiring Tier 4 Final diesel engines for the equipment categories of 
tractors/loaders/backhoes, rubber tired dozers, water trucks, cranes, forklifts, and aerial lifts. Other 
equivalent or better construction requirements may be available to reduce the Project’s impacts to the 
same extent as the mitigation measure. Possible alternative measures include the use of natural gas 
or propane generators, electric welders, and use of cleaner diesel engines on selected pieces of 
construction equipment. These alternative measures will require additional emissions analysis to 
demonstrate the same effectiveness as the mitigation measure.  
Attachments:  
Tables  
Figures 
Appendix A: Traffic Study 
Appendix B: AERMOD Input Files (provided Electronically) 
414 of 1252

--- page 415 ---
Ramboll  
TABLES 
415 of 1252

--- page 416 ---
Project Description 
Land Use Type1
CalEEMod® Land Use 
Type
CalEEMod® Land Use Subtype
Value
Units
Square 
Footage
Acreage
Residential Space
Residential
Apartments Mid Rise
10 Dwelling Units
             8,938 
0.21
Retail Space
Retail
Regional Shopping Center
17.7 1000sqft
           17,658 
0.41
Office Space
Commerical
General Office Building
104.8 1000sqft
         104,755 
2.40
Shared Space
Commercial
General Office Building
1.5 1000sqft
             1,515 
0.03
Parking Garage
Parking
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
239 Spaces
         101,910 
2.34
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model®
Table 1
Land Use Summary for Proposed Project
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Information provided by project applicant. 
416 of 1252

--- page 417 ---
Summary of Construction Emissions by Source
ROG
NOx
PM10
PM2.5
On-Site Exhaust
12
105
4.7
4.4
Mobile Exhaust
1.5
66
3.1
1.3
Fugitive Dust
--
--
2.8
0.42
On-Site Exhaust
0.38
4.4
0.15
0.13
Mobile Exhaust
0.0089
0.0065
0.0012
0.00043
Fugitive Dust
--
--
0.0080
0.0012
On-Site Exhaust
78
690
28
26
Mobile Exhaust
5.9
233
11
4.8
Fugitive Dust
--
--
10
1.6
On-Site Exhaust
5.7
58
2.8
2.6
Mobile Exhaust
0.36
0.26
0.048
0.017
Fugitive Dust
--
--
0.32
0.048
On-Site Exhaust
51
556
25
23
Mobile Exhaust
22
236
12
5.2
Fugitive Dust
--
--
24
3.6
On-Site Exhaust
38
406
18
16
Mobile Exhaust
16
180
10
4.0
Fugitive Dust
--
--
19
2.9
On-Site Exhaust
63
677
29
26
Mobile Exhaust
21
230
12
5.2
Fugitive Dust
--
--
25
3.7
On-Site Exhaust
3.1
29
1.5
1.4
Mobile Exhaust
1.3
11
0.66
0.28
Fugitive Dust
0
0
1.4
0.2
Paving Off-Gassing
0.75
0
0
0
Architectural Coating
503
0
0
0
Average Construction Emissions by day
ROG
NOx
PM10 (Exhaust)
PM2.5 (Exhaust)
2023
0.81
8.9
0.40
0.31
2024
2.8
6.7
0.31
0.23
BAAQMD Thresholds2
54
54
82
54
Exceeds Thresholds?
No
No
No
No
Notes:
1.
2.
Abbreviations:
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
NOx - nitrogen oxides
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model® 
PM10 - particulate matter less than 10 microns
CAP - Criteria Air Pollutants
PM2.5 - particulate matter less than 2.5 microns
CEQA - California Environmental Quality Act
ROG - reactive organic gases
lb/yr - pounds per year
References:
Demolition
Site Preparation
Grading / Excavation
Trenching/Foundation
Building - Exterior
Building - Structure
Table 2
Unmitigated Criteria Air Pollutants Emissions from Proposed Project Construction
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Source
CAP Emissions1
lb/yr
Phase
Paving
California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod). 2020.4.0. CAPCOA. 2020. Available online at: http://www.caleemod.com
Construction emissions were estimated with methodology equivalent to CalEEMod® 2020.4.0. On-Site Exhaust represents emissions from 
offroad equipment, while mobile exhaust includes emissions from worker, vendor, and hauling trucks. For PM, the construction emissions 
of fugitive dust include the entrained roadway dust.
Thresholds are from BAAQMD Guidance for Assessing and Mitigating Air Quality Impacts. For PM, this excludes construction fugitive 
emissions.
lb/day
Year
417 of 1252

--- page 418 ---
Summary of Construction Emissions by Source
ROG
NOx
PM10
PM2.5
On-Site Exhaust
9
71
3.1
2.8
Mobile Exhaust
1.5
66
3.1
1.3
Fugitive Dust
--
--
2.8
0.42
On-Site Exhaust
0.38
4.4
0.15
0.13
Mobile Exhaust
0.0089
0.0065
0.0012
0.00043
Fugitive Dust
--
--
0.0080
0.0012
On-Site Exhaust
29
192
7
6
Mobile Exhaust
5.9
233
11
4.8
Fugitive Dust
--
--
10
1.6
On-Site Exhaust
1.5
7
0.20
0.20
Mobile Exhaust
0.36
0.26
0.048
0.017
Fugitive Dust
--
--
0.32
0.048
On-Site Exhaust
12
83
1.4
1.4
Mobile Exhaust
22
236
12
5.2
Fugitive Dust
--
--
24
3.6
On-Site Exhaust
9.6
65
1.1
1.1
Mobile Exhaust
16
180
10
4.0
Fugitive Dust
--
--
19
2.9
On-Site Exhaust
21
180
2.7
2.7
Mobile Exhaust
21
230
12
5.2
Fugitive Dust
--
--
25
3.7
On-Site Exhaust
3.1
29
1.5
1.4
Mobile Exhaust
1.3
11
0.66
0.28
Fugitive Dust
--
--
1.4
0.22
Paving Off-Gassing
0.75
--
0
0
Architectural Coating
503
--
0
0
Average Construction Emissions by day
ROG
NOx
PM10 (Exhaust)
PM2.5 (Exhaust)
2023
0.38
4.1
0.17
0.10
2024
2.5
3.1
0.12
0.064
BAAQMD Thresholds2
54
54
82
54
Exceeds Thresholds?
No
No
No
No
Notes:
1.
2.
Abbreviations:
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
NOx - nitrogen oxides
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model® 
PM10 - particulate matter less than 10 microns
CAP - Criteria Air Pollutants
PM2.5 - particulate matter less than 2.5 microns
CEQA - California Environmental Quality Act
ROG - reactive organic gases
lb/yr - pounds per year
References:
Building - Exterior
Thresholds are from BAAQMD Guidance for Assessing and Mitigating Air Quality Impacts. For PM, this excludes construction fugitive 
emissions.
California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod). 2020.4.0. CAPCOA. 2020. Available online at: http://www.caleemod.com
Paving
Year
lb/day
Construction emissions were estimated with methodology equivalent to CalEEMod® 2020.4.0. On-Site Exhaust represents emissions from 
offroad equipment, while mobile exhaust includes emissions from worker, vendor, and hauling trucks. For PM, the construction emissions 
of fugitive dust include the entrained roadway dust.
Grading / Excavation
Trenching/Foundation
Site Preparation
Demolition
Building - Structure
Table 3
Mitigated Criteria Air Pollutants Emissions from Proposed Project Construction
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Phase
Source
CAP Emissions1
lb/yr
418 of 1252

--- page 419 ---
Excess Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
Excess Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
in a million
unitless ratio
μg/m3
in a million
unitless ratio
μg/m3
in a million
unitless 
μg/m3
Unmitigated off-road construction equipment 
exhaust and on-road construction mobile 
vehicles
43.15
0.033
0.051
0.44
0.00061
0.00094
--
--
--
Emergency Generator
2.37
0.00084
0.0042
0.014
0.000054
0.00027
2.78
0.00075
0.0037
Unmitigated Total
46
0.033
0.051
0.45
0.00061
0.00094
--
--
--
Significance Threshold
10
1
0.3
10
1
0.3
10
1
0.3
Exceeds thresholds?
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
UTMx
UTMy
Note:
1.
Abbreviations:
µg - microgram
m3 - cubic meter
OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
PM - particulate matter
Excess lifetime cancer risks were estimated using the following equation:
Project Construction + Operation
2.
Riskinh = ΣCi x CF x IFinh x CPFi x ASF
Where:
Riskinh = Cancer Risk for the Inahalation Pathway (unitless)
Ci = Annual Average Air Concentration for Chemical "i" ug/m3
CF = Conversion Factor (mg/ug)
IFinh = Intake Factor for Inhalantion (m3/kg-day)
CPFi = Cancer Potency Factor (mg/kg-day)-1
ASF = Age Sensitivity Factor (unitless)
3. Chronic HI for each receptor was estimated using the following equation:
HIinh = ΣCi / cREL
Where:
HIinh = Chronic HI for the Inhalation Pathway (unitless)
Ci = Annual Average Air Concentration for Chemical "i" (ug/m3)
cREL = Chronic Reference Exposure Level (ug/m3)
Source Category
Table 4
Unmitigated Maximum Project Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI and PM2.5
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Excess lifetime cancer risk and chronic HI from construction sources represent the incremental increase in activity expected as a result of the Project.
Off-Site Resident
Off-Site Daycare Child
559960
559555
Project Operation
On-Site Resident
559960
4157665
4157625
4157657
419 of 1252

--- page 420 ---
HI - Hazard Index
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
UTMx, UTMy - Universal Transverse Mercator coordinates
Reference:
BAAQMD. 2017. California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines. May. Available at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/ceqa_guidelines_may2017-pdf.pdf?la=en
OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.
420 of 1252

--- page 421 ---
Excess Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
Excess Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
Excess 
Lifetime 
Cancer Risk1
Chronic HI
Annual 
average 
PM2.5
in a million
unitless ratio
μg/m3
in a million
unitless ratio
μg/m3
in a million
unitless 
μg/m3
Mitigated off-road construction equipment 
exhaust and on-road construction mobile 
vehicles
6.71
0.0064
0.010
0.072
0.00012
0.00020
--
--
--
Emergency Generator
2.37
0.00084
0.0042
0.014
0.000054
0.00027
2.78
0.00075
0.0037
Mitigated Total
9.1
0.0064
0.010
0.085
0.00012
0.00027
--
--
--
Significance Threshold
10
1
0.3
10
1
0.3
10
1
0.3
Exceeds thresholds?
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
UTMx
UTMy
Note:
1.
Abbreviations:
µg - microgram
m3 - cubic meter
OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
PM - particulate matter
Excess lifetime cancer risk and chronic HI from construction sources represent the incremental increase in activity expected as a result of the Project.
2. Excess lifetime cancer risks were estimated using the following equation:
Riskinh = ΣCi x CF x IFinh x CPFi x ASF
Where:
Riskinh = Cancer Risk for the Inahalation Pathway (unitless)
Ci = Annual Average Air Concentration for Chemical "i" ug/m3
CF = Conversion Factor (mg/ug)
IFinh = Intake Factor for Inhalantion (m3/kg-day)
CPFi = Cancer Potency Factor (mg/kg-day)-1
ASF = Age Sensitivity Factor (unitless)
3. Chronic HI for each receptor was estimated using the following equation:
HIinh = ΣCi / cREL
Where:
HIinh = Chronic HI for the Inhalation Pathway (unitless)
Ci = Annual Average Air Concentration for Chemical "i" (ug/m3)
cREL = Chronic Reference Exposure Level (ug/m3)
4157625
4157657
4157665
Source Category
Off-Site Resident
Off-Site Daycare Child
On-Site Resident
559960
559555
559960
Table 5
Mitigated Maximum Project Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI and PM2.5
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Project Construction + Operation
Project Operation
421 of 1252

--- page 422 ---
HI - Hazard Index
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
UTMx, UTMy - Universal Transverse Mercator coordinates
Reference:
BAAQMD. 2017. California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines. May. Available at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/ceqa_guidelines_may2017-pdf.pdf?la=en
OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.
422 of 1252

--- page 423 ---
Lifetime Excess Cancer 
Risk1
PM2.5 
Concentration1
(in a million)
(µg/m3)
Stationary Sources2
1.1
0.00062
1.1
Highway3
6.7
--
0.15
Major Streets3
0.14
--
0.0036
Railways3
8.2
--
0.016
Project Construction+Operation
46
0.033
0.051
Total
62
0.034
1.4
Exceeds Threshold?
NO
NO
YES
Stationary Sources2
1.1
0.00062
1.14
Highway3
6.7
--
0.15
Major Streets3
0.14
--
0.0036
Railways3
8.2
--
0.016
Project Construction+Operation
9.1
0.0064
0.010
Total
25
0.0071
1.3
Exceeds Threshold?
NO
NO
YES
Stationary Sources2
0.89
0.0018
0.019
Highway3
6.8
--
0.15
Major Streets3
0.14
--
0.0036
Railways3
9.3
--
0.018
Project Operation
2.8
0.00075
0.0037
Total
20
0.0025
0.19
Exceeds Threshold?
NO
NO
NO
100
10
0.8
Notes:
1
2 Stationary sources include existing stationary sources and foreseeable future stationary sources.
3
Abbreviations:
µg - microgram
m3 - cubic meter
HI - hazard index 
PM2.5 - fine particulate matter
References:
Ramboll. 2022. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for the Block 21 Mixed-Use Project, San Mateo, California (Draft). April 
1. 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). 2020. Permitted Sources Risk and Hazards Map. June. Available at: 
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2387ae674013413f987b1071715daa65
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). 2020. Health Risk Calculator Beta 4.0. March. Available at: 
https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/tools/baaqmd-health-risk-calculator-beta-4-0-
xlsx.xlsx?la=en&rev=dab7d85a772d45caa9c99e59395bf12d\
BAAQMD. 2022. Personal Communication from Matthew Hanson to Carlos Ciudad-Real. March 25. 
Cancer risk and PM2.5 concentration values were determined using BAAQMD screening tools and are based on the maximum impact of 
a raster cell located on the identified sensitive receptors.
Table 6
Construction and Operation Cumulative Risks and Hazards
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
If the cell is marked with "--", no risk was calculated. For existing stationary sources, this is because the source was more than 1,000 
feet from the identified sensitive receptors. For roadways, the chronic HI is not calculated in the BAAQMD screening tool.
Unmitigated Off-
Site Resident
On-Site Resident
Receptor Type
Source1
Noncancer Chronic 
HI1
Threshold
Mitigated Off-
Site Resident
423 of 1252

--- page 424 ---
Phase
Start Date
End Date
Number of Work 
Days
Days per Week
Demolition
3/1/2023
4/5/2023
26
5
Site Preparation
4/5/2023
4/5/2023
1
5
Grading / Excavation 
3/23/2023
6/29/2023
71
5
Trenching/Foundation
6/30/2023
8/24/2023
40
5
Building - Structure
8/16/2023
4/17/2024
176
5
Building - Exterior
4/18/2024
9/4/2024
100
5
Paving 
9/5/2024
11/13/2024
50
5
Notes:
1.
Table 7
Construction Phasing Schedule
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
The construction schedule is based on information provided by the project applicant. 
424 of 1252

--- page 425 ---
Phase
Construction 
Subphase
Equipment1
CalEEMod Equipment2
Fuel3
Number1
Horsepower1
Daily Usage4 
(hours/day)
Utilization5
Unmitigated 
Tier6
Mitigated Tier5
Demolition
Concrete/Industrial Saws
Concrete/Industrial Saws
Diesel
1
81
2
100%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Demolition
Excavators
Excavators
Diesel
1
158
8
100%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Demolition
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
Diesel
1
97
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Site Preparation
Site Preparation
Graders
Graders
Diesel
1
187
8
100%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Grading / Excavation 
Excavators
Excavators
Diesel
1
158
8
35%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Grading / Excavation 
Graders
Graders
Diesel
1
187
8
7.0%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Grading / Excavation 
Rubber Tired Dozers
Rubber Tired Dozers
Diesel
1
247
8
35%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Grading / Excavation 
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
Diesel
1
97
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Grading / Excavation 
Shoring Drill Rig
Bore/Drill Rigs 
Diesel
1
221
8
35%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Grading / Excavation 
Water Truck7
Off-Highway Trucks 
Diesel
1
402
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Trenching/Foundation
Trenching/Foundation
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe
Diesel
1
97
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Structure
Cranes
Cranes
Diesel
1
231
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Structure
Forklifts
Forklifts
Diesel
2
89
5
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Structure
Aerial Lifts 
Aerial Lifts 
Diesel
1
63
6
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Exterior
Cranes
Cranes
Diesel
1
231
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Exterior
Forklifts
Forklifts
Diesel
2
89
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Exterior
Aerial Lifts 
Aerial Lifts 
Diesel
2
63
8
100%
No Specific Tier
Tier 4 Final
Building - Exterior
Welders
Welders
Diesel
1
46
8
15%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Paving 
Pavers
Pavers
Diesel
1
130
8
12%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Paving 
Paving Equipment
Paving Equipment
Diesel
1
132
8
12%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Paving 
Rollers
Rollers
Diesel
1
80
8
12%
No Specific Tier
No Specific Tier
Notes:
1.
Equipment lists were provided/confirmed by the Project Sponsor.
2.
CalEEMod equipment types are assgined using CalEEMod User's Guide Appendix D.
3.
4.
Construction activities are assumed to occur during 8AM to 8PM, consistent with San Mateo County guidelines.
5.
Utilization is calculated based on the average hours per day of the equipment divided by daily usage (8 hours for all equipment except for concrete/industrial saws). 
6.
Assumed fleet-average tier.
7.
An off-highway truck is added to account for water truck usage during the grading phase.
Abbreviations:
CalEEMod - California Emissions Estimator Model
References:
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod®), Version 2020.4.0. Available online at http://www.caleemod.com/
Grading / Excavation 
Building - Exterior
Paving 
All equipment is conservatively assumed to be diesel-fueled.
Table 8
Construction Equipment
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Demolition
Building - Structure
425 of 1252

--- page 426 ---
Worker
Vendor
Hauling
Demolition4
2023
26
8
0
459
10.8
7.3
20
2,246
0
9,180
Site Preparation
2023
1
3
0
0
10.8
7.3
20
32
0
0
Grading / Excavation 5
2023
71
13
0
1,615
10.8
7.3
20
9,968
0
32,300
Trenching/Foundation
2023
40
3
0
0
10.8
7.3
20
1,296
0
0
Building - Structure6
2023
98
61
23
839
10.8
7.3
20
64,562
16,454
16,780
Building - Structure6
2024
78
61
23
668
10.8
7.3
20
51,386
13,096
13,360
Building - Exterior6
2024
100
61
23
857
10.8
7.3
20
65,880
16,790
17,140
Paving 7
2024
50
8
0
77
10.8
7.3
20
4,320
0
1,540
EMFAC Data8
Trip Type
EMFAC Settings
Fleet Mix
Fuel Type
Worker
50% LDA, 25% LDT1, 
25% LDT2
Gasoline
Vendor
50% MHDT, 50% HHDT
Diesel
Hauling
100% HHDT
Diesel
Notes:
1.
2.
3.
Trip lengths are based on CalEEMod Appendix D defaults for San Mateo County (urban).
4.
5.
6.
Based on information provided by the project applicant, 2,364 total round trips for cement trucks for building construction phases.
7.
Based on information provided by the project applicant, 1,220 cubic yards of asphalt imported.
8.
Emissions were calculated using emission factors from EMFAC2021 Emissions Inventory with the specified settings and fleet and fuel assumptions.
Abbreviations:
CalEEMod - California Emissions Estimator Model
EMFAC2021 - California Air Resources Board EMission FACtor model
LDA - light-duty automobiles
LDT - light-duty trucks
HHDT - heavy-heavy duty trucks
MHDT - medium-heavy duty trucks
References:
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod®), Version 2020.4.0. Available online at http://www.caleemod.com/
California Air Resources Board (ARB) 2021. EMFAC2021. Available at: https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/mobile-source-emissions-inventory/msei-modeling-tools
Based on information provided by the project applicant, 75,000 square feet of building to be demolished and 22 tons of pavement to be demolished. 
Based on information provided by the project applicant, 25,828 cubic yards of export volume
San Mateo County
Calendar Years 2023-2024
Annual Season
Aggregated Model Year
EMFAC2007 Vehicle Categories
Hauling trip rates are calculated based on the import and export quantities provided by the Project Sponsor. Import and export quantities are converted from tons or cubic yards to corresponding one-way trips per phase by assuming 20 tons per truck or 
16 cubic yards per truck. Default truck capacities are consistent with CalEEMod User's Guide Appendix A.
Vendor VMT 
(miles)
Hauling VMT 
(miles)
Worker and vendor trips during building construction is based on project land use areas and was scaled from default CalEEMod worker and vendor trips. Worker trips during architectural coating are equal to 20% of the building construction trips. 
Worker 
VMT 
(miles)
Phase
Year
Construction Days
Worker Trip 
Rates1
 (one-way 
trips/day)
Vendor Trip Rates1
(one-way trips/day)
Hauling Trip 
Number2
(one-way 
trips/phase)
Trip Lengths3
(miles/one way trip)
Table 9
Construction Trips
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
426 of 1252

--- page 427 ---
Phase
Year
Asphalt-Paved 
Area (sqft)
Asphalt-
Paved Area 
(acre)
Asphalt 
Paving Off-
Gassing ROG 
Emission 
Factor 
(lb/acre)1
Asphalt Paving Off-
Gassing ROG 
Emissions (lb)
Paving
2024
101,910
2.34
2.62
6.13
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
lb - pound
ROG - reactive organic gas
sqft - square foot
References:
Emission factor from CalEEMod User's Guide, Appendix A.
Table 10
Estimated Emissions from Construction Paving Off-Gassing
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2020.  Appendix A. Available at: http://www.caleemod.com 
427 of 1252

--- page 428 ---
Inputs
Input
Units
2.7
Non-Residential Surface Area to Floor Area Ratio
2.0
6%
100%
Interior Surfaces
75%
Exterior Shell
25%
100
g/L
150
g/L
Emissions
Land Use1
Square Footage (square 
feet)
Buidling Surface Area
(square feet)
Architectural 
Coating VOC 
emissions2
(lb)
Residential Exterior
8,938
24,133
42
Nonresidential Exterior
123,928
247,856
431
Parking
101,910
6,115
28.3
501
Notes: 
1.
Abbreviations:
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model
L - liter
EF - Emission Factor
lb - pound
g - grams
VOC - Volatile Organic Compound
References: 
Parameter
Table 11
Estimated Emissions from Construction Architectural Coating Off-Gassing
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Residential Surface Area to Floor Area Ratio
Fraction of Surface Area
Total
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2020. California Emissions Estimator 
Model (CalEEMod), Version 2020.4.0. Available online at http://www.caleemod.com/
Calculated based on CalEEMod® assumption that 1 gallon of paint covers 180 square feet.
Painted Area in Parking Structures
Application Rate
Indoor Paint VOC Content
Outdoor Paint VOC Content
428 of 1252

--- page 429 ---
Roadway Category
Silt Loading1 (g/m2)
Travel Fraction1
Freeway
0.015
63%
Major
0.032
27%
Collector
0.032
5%
Local
0.32
5%
Weighted Silt Loading Factor
0.036
100%
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
ARB - Air Resources Board
g - gram(s)
m - meter
References: 
Table 12
Silt Loading Emission Factors
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
California Air Resources Board. 2021. Miscellaneous Process Methodology 7.9, Entrained Road Travel, 
Paved Road Dust. March. Available online at: 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/ei/areasrc/fullpdf/2021_paved_roads_7_9.pdf
Entrained Roadway Dust Constants for San Mateo County
Travel fraction by roadway category and silt loading are from the ARB's Entrained Road Travel Emission 
Inventory Source Methodology, Tables 2 and 4, respectively. 
429 of 1252

--- page 430 ---
Road Dust Equation1
E [lb/VMT] = k*(sL)^0.91 * (W)^1.02 * (1-P/4N)
Parameters
Value
E = annual average emission factor in the same units as k
[calculated]
k = particle size multiplier for particle size range 
PM10 (lb/VMT)
0.0022
PM2.5 (lb/VMT)
3.3E-04
sL = roadway silt loading [grams per square meter - g/m2]
0.036
W = average weight of vehicles traveling the road [tons]
2.4
P  = number of “wet” days in county with at least 0.01 in of 
precipitation during the annual averaging period
74
N = number of days in the averaging period
365
Entrained Road Dust Emission Factors
PM10 Emission Factor [lb/VMT]
2.5E-04
PM2.5 Emission Factor [lb/VMT]
3.7E-05
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
ARB - California Air Resources Board
lb - pound
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model
PM2.5 - particulate matter less than 2.5 microns
EMFAC - EMission FACtor Model
PM10 - particulate matter less than 10 microns
g - gram
VMT - vehicle miles traveled
References:
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2020. California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod), 
Version 2020.4.0. Available online at http://www.caleemod.com/
Table 13
Emission Factors for Entrained Roadway Dust
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Road dust equation and parameters are from the California Air Resources Board's (ARB) 2021 Miscellaneous Process 
Methodology 7.9 for Entrained Road Travel, Paved Road Dust. The silt loading emission factor assumes San Mateo county 
default roadway fractions and silt loading levels from ARB 2021. The number of "wet" days for San Mateo county is from 
ARB 2021. This is slightly higher than the default from CalEEMod® Appendix D Table 1.1 (70 days), which was based on 
older historic data and would result in slightly higher emissions. Other parameters (average weight of vehicles, size 
multipliers) are from ARB 2021. PM2.5 is assumed to be 15% of PM10 based on paved road dust sampling in California 
(ARB Speciation Profile #471), which is a more representative fraction than provided in the older AP-42 fugitive dust 
methodology as discussed in ARB 2021 (page 10).
California Air Resources Board. 2021. Miscellaneous Process Methodology 7.9, Entrained Road Travel, Paved Road Dust. 
March. Available online at: https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/ei/areasrc/fullpdf/2021_paved_roads_7_9.pdf
430 of 1252

--- page 431 ---
Entrained Road Dust Emission Factors
PM10 Emission Factor [lb/VMT]
2.5E-04
PM2.5 Emission Factor [lb/VMT]
3.7E-05
PM10
PM25
Demolition
2023
26
11,426
2.8
0.42
Site Preparation
2023
1
32
0.0080
0.0012
Grading / Excavation 
2023
71
42,268
10
1.6
Trenching/Foundation
2023
40
1,296
0.32
0.048
Building - Structure
2023
98
97,797
24
3.6
Building - Structure
2024
78
77,843
19
2.9
Building - Exterior
2024
100
99,810
25
3.7
Paving 
2024
50
5,860
1.4
0.22
Abbreviations:
lb - pound
VMT - vehicle miles travelled
Table 14
Emission Factors for Entrained Roadway Dust
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Phase
Year
Construction Days
Total VMT 
(miles)
Total Emissions (lb)
431 of 1252

--- page 432 ---
DPM
PM2.5
DPM
PM2.5
DPM
PM2.5
Demolition
2023
1.4E-04
1.3E-04
8.8E-05
8.2E-05
1.1E-06
2.6E-06
Site Preparation
2023
4.2E-06
3.9E-06
4.2E-06
3.9E-06
3.6E-10
1.5E-09
Grading / Excavation
2023
8.1E-04
7.5E-04
2.0E-04
1.8E-04
3.7E-06
9.3E-06
Trenching/Foundation
2023
8.0E-05
7.4E-05
5.8E-06
5.8E-06
1.4E-08
5.9E-08
Building - Structure
2023
7.1E-04
6.5E-04
4.3E-05
4.3E-05
7.0E-06
1.7E-05
Building - Structure
2024
5.1E-04
4.7E-04
3.4E-05
3.4E-05
5.3E-06
1.3E-05
Building - Exterior
2024
8.2E-04
7.6E-04
8.0E-05
7.8E-05
6.8E-06
1.7E-05
Paving
2024
4.3E-05
3.9E-05
4.3E-05
3.9E-05
2.2E-07
6.1E-07
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
DPM - diesel particulate matter
CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model® 
PM2.5 - particulate matter less than 2.5 microns
CAP - Criteria Air Pollutants
g/s - grams/second
CEQA - California Environmental Quality Act
References: 
Table 15
Modeled Emission Rates from Proposed Project Construction Sources
Construction TAC emissions were estimated from on-site off-road emissions, where all PM10 tailpipe emissions are assumed to be DPM 
(although a portion of this is likely not from diesel sources). On-road emissions from hauling and vendor vehicles were estimated 
using a modeled trip length of 0.65 miles. These emissions were modeled with the on-site construction sources rather than on 
separate haul roads. The inclusion of on-road emissions and decision to model these emissions onsite is conservative as the estimated 
traffic volumes do not exceed the screening levels recommended by BAAQMD (i.e., more than 5,000 vehicles per day and 500 trucks 
per day) and can be considered minor sources (BAAQMD 2011).
California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod). 2020.4.0. CAPCOA. 2020. Available online at: http://www.caleemod.com
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. 2017. Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). May. Available 
online at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/ceqa_guidelines_may2017-pdf.pdf?la=en
Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards. 2012. BAAQMD. May. Available online at: 
https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/risk-modeling-approach-may-2012.pdf?la=en
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Onroad
Construction Emissions1 [g/s]
Phase
Year
Unmitigated Offroad
Mitigated Offroad
432 of 1252

--- page 433 ---
Release 
Height2
Exit 
Temperature3
Exit Flow3
Exit 
Diameter3
Annual Average 
Emission Rate4
(m)
(K)
(m3/min)
(mm)
(g/s)
Generators1
Point
1
2.4
823
71
183
1.80E-04
Notes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Abbreviations:
K - Kelvin
min - minute
m - meter
mm - millimeter
g/s - grams/second
Table 16
Emergency Generator Moedeling Parameters
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Source
Source Type
Number of 
Sources
One generator rated 500 kilowatts woud be located on the western side of the proposed building.
According to the Project Sponsor, generator would exhaust between the first and second floors of the building.
Based on the specification sheet for the Generac SD500 model.
Annual emissions of DPM and PM2.5 were based on 50 hours of non-emergency operation of the emergency generator operating at 100% load.
433 of 1252

--- page 434 ---
Construction Sources
Release Height
Initial Vertical 
Dimension3
Initial Lateral 
Dimension3
Value
Units
[m]
[m]
[m]
Construction Equipment
Area 2
1
800
m2
5
1.2
-
On-Road Haul Trucks
Volume
Multiple
Width of Road + 6
m
2.55
2.37
Source Dimension/2.15
Notes:
1.
2.
3.
Abbreviations:
m - meter
SCAQMD - South Coast Air Quality Management District
m2 - square meter
LST - Localized Significance Thresholds
AERMOD - Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling
USEPA - United States Environmental Protection Agency
References:
Table 17
Construction Modeling Parameters
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Source1
Source Type
Number of 
Sources
Source Dimension
USEPA. 2019. User's Guide for the AMS/EPA Regulatory Model (AERMOD). U.S. EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, North 
Carolina. Available at: https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/scram/models/aermod/aermod_userguide.pdf
Modeled emission rates for emission sources are 1 g/s to generate unit dispersion factors. The complete AERMOD input file can be found in Appendix C.
Area source release height assumed to be 5 meters, consistent with SCAQMD LST Guidance.
According to USEPA's AERMOD guidance, initial vertical dimension of the modeled construction equipment area sources is the release hegith divided by 4.3. According 
to the USEPA Haul Road Guidance, the initial vertical dimension for line sources is the top of plume height divided by 2.15, where the top of the plume is equal to 
2*Release Height. According to USEPA's AERMOD guidance, the initial horizontal dimension for construction volume sources is the source width divided by 2.15.
SCAQMD. 2008. Final Localized Significance Threshold Methodology. July. Available at: http://www.aqmd.gov/docs/default-source/ceqa/handbook/localized-
significance-thresholds/final-lst-methodology-document.pdf?sfvrsn=2
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). 2012. Haul Road Workgroup Final Report Submission to EPA-OAQPS. U.S. EPA Office of Air Quality and 
Planning Standards, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Available at: https://www3.epa.gov/scram001/reports/Haul_Road_Workgroup-Final_Report_Package-
20120302.pdf 
USEPA. 2012. Haul Road Workgroup Final Report Submission to EPA-OAQPS. U.S. EPA Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards, Research Triangle Park, North 
Carolina. Available at: https://www3.epa.gov/scram001/reports/Haul_Road_Workgroup-Final_Report_Package-20120302.pdf 
434 of 1252

--- page 435 ---
Construction + Operation Scenario
Daily Breathing 
Rate (DBR)1
Exposure 
Duration (ED)2
Fraction of 
Time at Home 
(FAH)3
Exposure 
Frequency 
(EF)4
Averaging 
Time (AT)
Intake Factor, 
Inhalation 
(IFinh)
[L/kg-day]
[years]
[unitless]
[days/year]
[days]
[m3/kg-day]
2023
3rd Trimester
361
0.30
1.0
10
0.015
2023
0-<2
1090
0.70
1.0
10
0.105
2024
0-<2
1090
1.00
1.0
10
0.149
2024
0-<2
1090
1.00
1.0
10
0.149
2025
2-<16
572
14.00
1.0
3
0.329
2029
16-30
261
14.00
0.7
1
0.037
2023
0-<2
750
1.00
1.00
10
0.073
2024
0-<2
750
1.00
1.00
10
0.073
Operation
2024
2-<16
415
3.75
1.0
3
0.046
2023
2-<9
415
1.00
1.0
3
0.012
2024
2-<9
415
1.00
1.0
3
0.012
Operation
2024
2-<9
415
4.75
1.0
3
0.058
Operation Only Scenario
Daily Breathing 
Rate (DBR)1
Exposure 
Duration (ED)5
Fraction of 
Time at Home 
(FAH)3
Exposure 
Frequency 
(EF)4
Averaging 
Time (AT)
Intake Factor, 
Inhalation 
(IFinh)
[L/kg-day]
[years]
[unitless]
[days/year]
[days]
[m3/kg-day]
3rd Trimester
361
0.25
1.0
10
0.012
0-<2
1090
2.00
1.0
10
0.299
2-<16
572
14.00
1.0
3
0.329
16-30
261
14.00
0.7
1
0.037
Notes:
1.
2 Exposure duration for residential receptor is assumed to begin at the start of construction and continue for 30 years of operation.
3
4
5
Calculation:
IFinh = DBR  * FAH * EF * ED * CF / AT
CF = 0.001 (m3/L)
Abbreviations:
AT - averaging time
IFinh - intake factor
Construction
250.0
Childcare
Construction
Receptor Type
Project Phase
Year
Receptor Age Group
Exposure Parameters
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Resident
Operation
350
25500
Daily breathing rates reflect default breathing rates from OEHHA 2015 as follows:
     95th percentile moderate intensity 8-hour daily breathing rate for age 16-70
     9th percentile 8-hour daily breathing rate for age 0-2 years, assuming 2 hours of moderate intensity and 6 hours of light intensity activity
Fraction of time spent at home is conservatively assumed to be 1 (i.e., 24 hours/day) for age groups from the third trimester to less than 16 years old based on the recommendation from BAAQMD (BAAQMD 2016) 
and OEHHA (OEHHA 2015).  The fraction of time at home for adults age 16-30 reflects default OEHHA guidance (OEHHA 2015) as recommended by BAAQMD (2016). 
Exposure frequency reflects default exposure frequency from OEHHA 2015. 
For the operation-only, the maximally exposed project resident is assumed to be exposed to risks for 30 years, beginning at the start of operation. 
2024
Table 18
Construction and Operational Exposure Parameters
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Receptor Type
Project Phase
Year
Receptor Age Group
Exposure Parameters
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Resident
Construction
350
25500
Operation
Daycare
435 of 1252

--- page 436 ---
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
kg - kilogram
DBR - daily breathing rate
L - liter
ED - exposure duration
m3 - cubic meter
EF - exposure frequency
OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
FAH - fraction of time at home
References:
OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments.
     Available at https://oehha.ca.gov/media/downloads/crnr/2015guidancemanual.pdf
436 of 1252

--- page 437 ---
Chemical1
Cancer Potency Factor
(mg/kg-day)-1
Chronic REL (µg/m3)
Diesel PM
1.1
5.0
Notes:
1.
Abbreviations:
µg/m3 - micrograms per cubic meter
ARB - Air Resources Board
Cal/EPA - California Environmental Protection Agency
(mg/kg-day)-1 - per milligram per kilogram-day
OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
PM - particulate matter
REL - reference exposure level
Reference:
Cal/EPA. 2015. OEHHA/ARB Consolidated Table of Approved Risk Assessment Health Values. May 13. 
Table 19
Toxicity Values
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Chemicals presented in this table reflect air toxic contaminants in the proposed fuel types that are expected from off-road 
equipment and on-road truck trips.
1 of 1
437 of 1252

--- page 438 ---
Latitude
Longitude
Lifetime 
Excess Cancer 
Risk
PM2.5 
Concentration
(in a million)
(µg/m3)
15342
Eurocraft Auto Body 
LLC
Auto Body Coating 
Operation
37.564
-122.318
0.00
0.00
0.000
20478
Gramercy on the 
Park Condos
Generators
37.564
-122.321
0.96
0.00
0.001
9555
San Mateo Lumber 
Co , Inc
Woodworking 
Operation
37.563
-122.318
0.00
0.00
1.118
10327
Sutter Bay Hospitals 
dba Mills-Peninsula 
Health
Generators
37.563
-122.324
0.05
0.00
0.018
NA
Block 21 
Development4
Emergency Generator
37.566
-122.320
0.09
0.00
0.000
15342
Eurocraft Auto Body 
LLC
Auto Body Coating 
Operation
37.564
-122.318
0.00
0.00
0.000
20478
Gramercy on the 
Park Condos
Generators
37.564
-122.321
0.39
0.00
0.000
112208
APRO  LLC dba 
United Pacific #2201
Gas Dispensing 
Facility
37.566
-122.319
0.32
0.00
0.000
10327
Sutter Bay Hospitals 
dba Mills-Peninsula 
Health
Generators
37.563
-122.324
0.05
0.00
0.018
NA
Block 21 
Development4
Emergency Generator
37.566
-122.320
0.12
0.00
0.000
Notes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Abbreviations:
µg - microgram
m - meter
BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
m3 - cubic meter
ft - feet
MEI - maximum exposed individual
HI - hazard index 
PM2.5 - fine particulate matter
References:
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). 2020. Permitted Sources Risk and Hazards Map. June. Available at: 
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2387ae674013413f987b1071715daa65
BAAQMD. 2022. Personal Communication from Matthew Hanson to Carlos Ciudad-Real. March 25. 
Ramboll. 2022. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for the Block 21 Mixed-Use Project, San Mateo, California (Draft). 
April 1. 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). 2020. Health Risk Calculator Beta 4.0. March. Available at: 
https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/tools/baaqmd-health-risk-calculator-beta-4-0-
xlsx.xlsx?la=en&rev=dab7d85a772d45caa9c99e59395bf12d\
Noncancer 
Chronic HI
(degrees)
On-Site 
Resident
Off-Site 
Resident
Health impacts estimated using BAAQMD Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. Risk values listed are maximum values, not expected values. 
Results have been adjusted by the BAAQMD-recommended distance multiplier, where relevant.
Screening level health risk impacts from the foreseeable future development were obtained from the environmental study of this project.
Facility information provided by the BAAQMD except for where facility numbers are absent. 
Locations are approximate for preliminary assessment of risk.
Facility Name1
BAAQMD 
Facility 
Number1
Location of 
MEIR
Table 20
Health Risk Impacts from Stationary Sources for Cumulative Analysis
Draeger's Mixed-Use Project
222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Location1,2
Health Risk Screening Values Adjusted by 
BAAQMD Screening Tool3
Source type (used 
for distance 
multiplier)1
438 of 1252

--- page 439 ---
Ramboll  
FIGURES 
439 of 1252

--- page 440 ---
Map Scale: 1:10,490  |  Map Center: 122°19'6"W 37°34'1"N
C:\Users\CCiudadReal\Ramboll\DJPA Draeger's Mixed Use 222 E 4th - Documents\GIS\Draegers.aprx\
PROJECT: 1690002413 | DATED:  | DESIGNER:
Service Layer Credits: USGSTopo: USGS The National Map: National Boundaries Dataset, 3DEP Elevation Program, Geographic Names Information System, National Hydrography Dataset,
National Land Cover Database, National Structures Dataset, and National Transportation Dataset; USGS Global Ecosystems; U.S. Census Bureau TIGER/Line data; USFS Road Data; Natural
Earth Data; U.S. Department of State Humanitarian Information Unit; and NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information, U.S. Coastal Relief Model. Data refreshed June, 2022.
0
2,000
1,000
Feet
RAMBOLL US CONSULTING, INC.
A RAMBOLL COMPANY
FIGURE 01
222 E 4th Ave Mixed Use Project
500 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA
LEGEND
Project Site
Emergency Generator
Haul Route
Childcare
Daycare
Elementary School
Off-site Residents
On-site Residents
Buildings included for building downwash
SOURCE AND RECEPTOR
SETUP
!á(
N
440 of 1252

--- page 441 ---
Map Scale: 1:4,297  |  Map Center: 122°19'25"W 37°33'51"N
C:\Users\CCiudadReal\Ramboll\DJPA Draeger's Mixed Use 222 E 4th - Documents\GIS\Draegers.aprx\
PROJECT: 1690002413 | DATED:  | DESIGNER:
Service Layer Credits: USGSTopo: USGS The National Map: National Boundaries Dataset, 3DEP Elevation Program, Geographic Names Information System, National Hydrography Dataset,
National Land Cover Database, National Structures Dataset, and National Transportation Dataset; USGS Global Ecosystems; U.S. Census Bureau TIGER/Line data; USFS Road Data; Natural
Earth Data; U.S. Department of State Humanitarian Information Unit; and NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information, U.S. Coastal Relief Model. Data refreshed June, 2022.
0
2,000
1,000
Feet
RAMBOLL US CONSULTING, INC.
A RAMBOLL COMPANY
FIGURE 02
222 E 4th Ave Mixed Use Project
500 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA
LEGEND
Project Site
Off-Site Daycare Child
On-Site Resident
Off-Site Resident
LOCATION OF MEIR'S AND
MEIS
!á(
N
441 of 1252

--- page 442 ---
Ramboll  
APPENDIX A 
TRAFFIC STUDY 
442 of 1252

--- page 443 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Technical Memorandum 
 
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. (Kittelson) prepared this trip generation memorandum for the 222 East 4th 
Avenue Project at the existing Draeger’s site in San Mateo, California (Project). The Project proposes to 
redevelop the existing Draeger Market into a mixed-use building with office, residential, and retail space. 
Site access will be accommodated for personal and delivery vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians. 
Project Description 
Lane Partners is proposing to replace the existing 60,965 square feet Draeger’s market located at 222 East 
4th Avenue with a 5-story, approximately 155,052 square feet mixed-use building with two levels of below 
grade parking. The building would consist of approximately 104,722 square feet of office space, 17,658 
square feet of retail space, and 8,971 square feet of residential space for 10 below-market-rate units at the 
lower income level. The retail floor would be located on the ground floor, the office space would be 
spread throughout the first four floors, and the residential space would be split between the ground floor 
(i.e., residential lobby/elevator) and the fifth floor living areas. The ground floor would also include 12,392 
square feet of covered parking area and two levels (89,519 square feet) below grade for a total of 239 
parking spaces and 50-60 valet parking spaces. The Project site plan is shown in Figure 1.  
The Project site is in downtown San Mateo and is zoned as Central Business District/Residential Overlay 
District – Mixed Use (CBD). The site is also in a designated “Transit Oriented Development” area as it is within 
a half mile of the San Mateo Caltrain station.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505 
Oakland, CA 94612 
July 11, 2022     
Project# 24837.004
To: 
Wendy Lao  
City of San Mateo   
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
From: 
Allison Woodworth; Anusha Musunuru, PhD; Mychal Loomis, PE 
CC: 
Bethany Lopez, Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Mike Kato 
RE: 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Trip Generation Memorandum DRAFT 
443 of 1252

--- page 444 ---
July 11, 2022 
Page 2 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Trip Generation Memorandum DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Figure 1: Proposed Mixed-Use Project Site Plan 
 
Source: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4386/222-E-4th-Ave-Draegers 
 
 
444 of 1252

--- page 445 ---
July 11, 2022 
Page 3 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Trip Generation Memorandum DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Trip Generation Calculation 
ITE DEVELOPMENT LAND USE CODES  
Trip generation is a key consideration for determining local effects of the project on the transportation 
network. Trip generation rates published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation 
Manual 11th Edition were used to estimate the number of trips the mixed-use proposed project would 
generate. ITE trip estimates are tied to specific land use codes. The ITE land use codes found to be most 
applicable to the Project are listed below.  
• 
Supermarket (ITE 850) 
• 
General Office Building (ITE 710) 
• 
Affordable Housing (ITE 223) 
In addition, this Project is assumed to be in the ‘Dense Multi-Use Urban’ context, considered by ITE to be an 
area that has diverse and interacting complementary land uses with good pedestrian connectivity, and 
convenient and frequent transit service. This is consistent with the Transit Oriented Development overlay 
and CBD zoning for the project site for which the San Mateo Municipal code promotes mixed-uses and 
pedestrian activity. Table 1 below shows the trip generation rates used for the analysis.  
Table 1: Trip Generation Rates, ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition 
Land Use 
ITE 
Code 
Land Use 
Context 
Units* 
Weekday 
Daily 
Rate 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
Rate 
In % 
Out % 
Rate 
In % 
Out % 
Retail 
(Supermarket) 
850 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
1000 SF 
GFA 
107.42  
4.99 
55% 
45% 
9.32 
50% 
50% 
Office Space 
710 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
1000 SF 
GFA 
 none 
provided 
0.84 
87% 
13% 
0.87 
16% 
84% 
Office Space 
710 
General 
Urban/ 
Suburban1 
1000 SF 
GFA 
Fitted 
Curve2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Affordable 
Housing 
223 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
DU 
3.83  
0.5 
29% 
71% 
0.36 
61% 
39% 
*: GFA – Gross Floor Area, SF – Square Feet, DU – Dwelling Units 
1: The weekday daily rate for General Urban/Suburban land use was used for Office Space (ITE 710) as no vehicle rate 
was provided for the Dense Multi-Use Urban land use context.  
2: ITE 710 (General Urban/Suburban) daily rate fitted curve equation: Ln(T) = 0.87 Ln(X) + 3.05 
TRIP GENERATION CALCULATION 
Trip generation estimates for this Project took into consideration three types of trips:  
• 
Primary or New: These are the trips whose specific purpose was to visit the site. Primary trip rates 
were generated using ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition. 
 
• 
Pass-by: Drivers already on their way to a destination that stop temporarily at the Project Site 
without a major roadway diversion are considered making “pass-by” trips.  Supermarket 850 is the 
only land use code in ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition for which a pass-by rate was supplied. 
The 24% average pass-by rate for this land use was only applicable for Weekday PM Peak, resulting 
in a reduction of 39 trips. 
445 of 1252

--- page 446 ---
July 11, 2022 
Page 4 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Trip Generation Memorandum DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
• 
Internal: Trips that occur between land-uses on a multi-use project site and which can be made 
without using the off-site street network are considered “internal trips”. Internal trips for this project 
can be made by walking between uses. Internal capture was estimated using methodology from 
NCHRP Report 684 – Enhancing Internal Trip Capture for Mixed-Use Developments.  
The existing Draeger’s market was included as existing trip credits as it currently generates trips to and from 
the site. Pass-by trips were also applied to the existing supermarket use. 
Table 2 provides a summary of the proposed project’s trip generation. As shown in the table, the net new 
trip generation would be a reduction of 3,645 average daily weekday trips with a reduction of 135 new trips 
occurring the morning peak and a reduction of 231 new trips occurring the afternoon peak. 
Table 2: Proposed Project Net Trip Generation Calculations 
Land Use 
Size 
Weekday 
Daily Trips 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Proposed Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
17.6 KSF 
1,891  
48 
40 
88 
82 
82 
164 
Office Space 
104.7 KSF 
1,208 
77 
11 
88 
15 
76 
91 
Affordable Housing 
10 DU 
38 
1 
4 
5 
2 
2 
4 
Internal Capture 
 
-233 
-6 
-6 
-12 
-11 
-11 
-22 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-18 
-18 
-36 
Total Proposed 
Project Trips 
 
2,904 
120 
49 
169 
70 
131 
201 
Existing Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
61 KSF 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
284 
284 
568 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-68 
-68 
-136 
Total Existing Trips 
 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
216 
216 
432 
Net New Project Trips 
 
-3,645 
-47 
-88 
-135 
-146 
-84 
-231 
 
Conclusion 
The Proposed Project would generate less daily and peak hour trips than what is currently being generated 
by the existing Draeger’s supermarket. The proposed mixed-use site would therefore not affect the 
operations of the roadway network and no further traffic analysis is required.  
446 of 1252

--- page 447 ---
Ramboll  
APPENDIX B 
AERMOD INPUT FILES (PROVIDED ELECTRONICALLY) 
447 of 1252

--- page 448 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-003
TREE INVENTORY
NA
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
448 of 1252

--- page 449 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-004
TREE INVENTORY
NA
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
449 of 1252

--- page 450 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-005
TREE INVENTORY
NA
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
450 of 1252

--- page 451 ---
SHEET NUMBER
ISSUES AND REVISIONS
PROJECT NUMBER
16010.00
SCALE
SHEET TITLE
ARCHITECTS
KORTH  SUNSERI  HAGEY
222 EAST 4TH
LANE PARTNERS
No. Date
Description
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
ANDREA COCHRAN
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2325 Third Street #210
San Francisco CA 94107
415.503.0060
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
L-006
TREE INVENTORY
NA
A
05/05/20 Pre-Application Set
B
10/21/20 Pre-Application Resubmittal
C
03/19/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
D
10/15/21 Pre-Application Resubmittal
E
02/04/22 Pre-Application Resubmittal
451 of 1252

--- page 452 ---
Type of Services 
Geotechnical Investigation 
Project Name 
222 East 4th Avenue 
Location 
222 East 4th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, California 
Client 
Lane Partners 
Client Address 
644 Menlo Avenue, Suite 204 
 
Menlo Park, California 
Project Number 
129-6-1 
Date 
December 20, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by 
Nicholas S. Devlin, P.E. 
 
Senior Project Engineer 
 
Geotechnical Project Manager 
 
 
 
Scott E. Fitinghoff, P.E., G.E. 
 
Principal Engineer 
 
Quality Assurance Reviewer 
 
452 of 1252

--- page 453 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page i 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Project Description ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
1.2 
Scope of Services ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1 
1.3 
Exploration Program -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
1.4 
Laboratory Testing Program ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
1.5 
Environmental Services ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
SECTION 2: REGIONAL SETTING ............................................................................................. 2 
2.1 
Geological Setting ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
2.2 
Regional Seismicity --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
Table 1: Approximate Fault Distances .................................................................................. 3 
SECTION 3: SITE CONDITIONS ................................................................................................. 4 
3.1 
Site Background -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
3.2 
Surface Description --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
3.3 
Subsurface Conditions ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
3.3.1 
Plasticity/Expansion Potential ................................................................................... 5 
3.3.2 
In-Situ Moisture Contents .......................................................................................... 5 
3.4 
Groundwater ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
3.5 
Corrosion Screening -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
Table 2A:  Summary of Corrosion Test Results ................................................................... 5 
3.4.1 
Preliminary Soil Corrosion Screening ....................................................................... 6 
Table 2B: ACI 318-14 Table 19.3.1.1 Exposure Categories and Classes ............................ 6 
Table 2C: ACI 318-14 Table 19.3.2.1 Requirements for Concrete by Exposure Class ....... 6 
SECTION 4: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS ........................................................................................... 6 
4.1 
Fault Rupture ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 6 
4.2 
Estimated Ground Shaking ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
4.3 
Liquefaction Potential------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
453 of 1252

--- page 454 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page ii 
 
4.3.1 
Background ................................................................................................................. 7 
4.3.2 
Analysis ....................................................................................................................... 7 
4.3.3 
Summary of Liquefaction Potential ........................................................................... 8 
4.3.4 
Ground Rupture Potential .......................................................................................... 8 
4.4 
Lateral Spreading ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 8 
4.5 
Seismic Settlement/Unsaturated Sand Shaking -------------------------------------------------- 8 
4.6 
Tsunami/Seiche --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9 
4.7 
Flooding ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9 
SECTION 5: CONCLUSIONS ...................................................................................................... 9 
5.1 
Summary ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 9 
5.1.1  
Proximity of Basement Excavation to Existing Improvements ...........................10 
5.1.2 
Presence of Cohesionless Soil at Basement Level .................................................10 
5.1.3 
Differential Movement At On-grade to On-Structure Transitions ...........................10 
5.1.4 
Potential For Seismic and Static Settlement ............................................................10 
5.1.5 
Soil Corrosion Potential ............................................................................................11 
5.2 
Plans and Specifications Review -------------------------------------------------------------------- 11 
5.3 
Construction Observation and Testing------------------------------------------------------------ 11 
SECTION 6: EARTHWORK ........................................................................................................12 
6.1 
Site Demolition -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 12 
6.1.1 
Demolition of Existing Slabs, Foundations and Pavements ...................................12 
6.1.2 
Abandonment of Existing Utilities ............................................................................13 
6.2 
Site Clearing and Preparation ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 13 
6.2.1 
Site Stripping .............................................................................................................13 
6.3 
Removal of Existing Fills ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 13 
6.4 
Temporary Cut and Fill Slopes ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
6.5 
Below-Grade Excavations ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
6.5.1 
Temporary Shoring ....................................................................................................14 
Table 3: Suggested Temporary Shoring Design Parameters .............................................14 
6.6 
At-Grade Subgrade Preparation --------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
6.7 
Subgrade Preparation----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
6.8 
Subgrade Stabilization Measures ------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
454 of 1252

--- page 455 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page iii 
 
6.8.1 
Below-Grade Excavation Stabilization .....................................................................16 
6.9 
Material for Fill -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
6.9.1 
Re-Use of On-site Soils .............................................................................................16 
6.9.2 
Potential Import Sources ...........................................................................................16 
6.10 
Compaction Requirements ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17 
Table 4: Compaction Requirements .....................................................................................17 
6.10.1 
Construction Moisture Conditioning ....................................................................18 
6.11 
Trench Backfill -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18 
6.12 
Site Drainage----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18 
6.13 
Landscape Considerations ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 
SECTION 7: FOUNDATIONS .....................................................................................................19 
7.1 
Summary of Recommendations --------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 
7.2 
Seismic Design Criteria -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 
Table 4: 2019 CBC Site Categorization and Site Coefficients ............................................20 
7.3 
Shallow Foundations ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 20 
7.3.1 
Reinforced Concrete Mat Foundation ......................................................................20 
7.3.2 
Allowable Mat Bearing Pressure ...............................................................................21 
7.3.3 
Mat Foundation Settlement .......................................................................................21 
7.3.4 
Mat Foundation Lateral Loading ...............................................................................21 
7.3.5 
Mat Modulus of Soil Subgrade Reaction ..................................................................21 
7.4 
Hydrostatic Uplift and Waterproofing -------------------------------------------------------------- 22 
SECTION 8: CONCRETE SLABS AND PEDESTRIAN PAVEMENTS .......................................22 
8.1 
Below-Grade Interior Slab-on-Grade --------------------------------------------------------------- 22 
8.2 
Interior Slabs Moisture Protection Considerations -------------------------------------------- 22 
8.3 
Exterior Flatwork (At-Grade) -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23 
SECTION 9: RETAINING WALLS ..............................................................................................23 
9.1 
Static Lateral Earth Pressures ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 23 
Table 5: Recommended Lateral Earth Pressures ................................................................24 
9.2 
Seismic Lateral Earth Pressures -------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 
9.3 
Wall Drainage ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 25 
455 of 1252

--- page 456 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page iv 
 
9.4 
Vehicle Surcharge Loads ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 25 
9.5 
Backfill ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26 
9.6 
Foundations (AT-GRADE) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26 
SECTION 10: LIMITATIONS ......................................................................................................26 
SECTION 11: REFERENCES .....................................................................................................27 
 
FIGURE 1: VICINITY MAP 
FIGURE 2: SITE PLAN 
FIGURE 3: REGIONAL FAULT MAP 
 
APPENDIX A: FIELD INVESTIGATION 
APPENDIX B: LABORATORY TEST PROGRAM 
 
456 of 1252

--- page 457 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of Services 
Geotechnical Investigation 
Project Name 
222 East 4th Avenue 
Location 
222 East 4th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION 
 
This geotechnical report was prepared for the sole use of Lane Partners for the 222 East 4th 
Avenue project located in San Mateo, California.  The location of the site is shown on the 
Vicinity Map, Figure 1.  For our use, we were provided with the following document: 
 
 
As-built plans titled, “Draeger’s Market, San Mateo, CA”, prepared by Field-Paoli 
Architecture & Planning, dated June 24, 1996. 
 
It is noted that building code references and recommendations provided in this report are based 
on the 2016 California Building Code (CBC); therefore, this recommendations and code 
references in this report will need to be updated based on the 2019 CBC that takes effect on 
January 1, 2020. 
 
1.1 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
The project will consist of a 4-story, mixed-use (office and retail) building with 2 levels of below-
grade parking on an approximately 1.1-acre site.  The above-grade portion of the structure is 
anticipated to be of wood- and/or steel-frame construction with the below-grade parking levels of 
concrete-frame construction. 
 
Structural loads were not available at the time of this report and are anticipated to be typical of 
this type of structure.  Grading is anticipated to include cuts of up to 25 feet for excavation of the 
below-grade parking levels. 
 
1.2 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
Our scope of services was presented in our proposal dated October 2, 2019 and consisted of 
field and laboratory programs to evaluate physical and engineering properties of the subsurface 
soils, engineering analysis to prepare recommendations for site work and grading, temporary 
shoring, building foundations, flatwork, retaining walls, and pavements, and preparation of this 
report.  Brief descriptions of our exploration and laboratory programs are presented below. 
457 of 1252

--- page 458 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 2 
 
1.3 
EXPLORATION PROGRAM 
 
Field exploration consisted of two borings drilled on November 6 and 21, 2019 with truck-
mounted, hollow-stem auger drilling equipment.  The borings were drilled to a depth of 60 feet 
below the existing grades.  The borings were backfilled with cement grout in accordance with 
local requirements; exploration permits were obtained as required by local jurisdictions. 
 
The approximate locations of our exploratory borings are shown on the Site Plan, Figure 2.  
Details regarding our field program are included in Appendix A. 
 
1.4 
LABORATORY TESTING PROGRAM 
 
In addition to visual classification of samples, the laboratory program focused on obtaining data 
for foundation design and seismic ground deformation estimates.  Testing included moisture 
contents, dry densities, washed sieve analyses, a Plasticity Index test, unconfined triaxial 
compression tests, and preliminary corrosion screening.  Details regarding our laboratory 
program are included in Appendix B. 
 
1.5 
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES 
 
Environmental services were not requested for this project.  If environmental concerns are 
determined to be present during future evaluations, the project environmental consultant should 
review our geotechnical recommendations for compatibility with the environmental concerns. 
 
SECTION 2: REGIONAL SETTING 
 
2.1 
GEOLOGICAL SETTING 
 
The San Francisco Peninsula is a relatively narrow band of rock at the north end of the Santa 
Cruz Mountains separating the Pacific Ocean from San Francisco Bay.  This represents one 
mountain range in a series of northwesterly-aligned mountains forming the Coast Ranges 
geomorphic province of California that stretches from the Oregon border nearly to Point 
Conception. In the San Francisco Bay area, most of the Coast Ranges have developed on a 
basement of tectonically mixed Cretaceous- and Jurassic-age (70- to 200-million years old) 
rocks of the Franciscan Complex.  Locally these basement rocks are capped by younger 
sedimentary and volcanic rocks. Most of the Coast Ranges are covered by still younger surficial 
deposits that reflect geologic conditions of the last million years or so. 
 
Movement on the many splays within the San Andreas Fault system has produced the dominant 
northwest-oriented structural and topographic trend seen throughout the Coast Ranges today. 
This trend reflects the boundary between two of the Earth's major tectonic plates: the North 
American plate to the east and the Pacific plate to the west.  The San Andreas Fault system is 
about 40 miles wide in the Bay area and extends from the San Gregorio Fault near the coastline 
to the Coast Ranges-Central Valley blind thrust at the western edge of the Great Central Valley 
as shown on the Regional Fault Map, Figure 3.  The San Andreas Fault is the dominant 
structure in the system, nearly spanning the length of California, and capable of producing the 
458 of 1252

--- page 459 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 3 
 
highest magnitude earthquakes. Many other subparallel or branch faults within the San Andreas 
system are equally active and nearly as capable of generating large earthquakes.  Right-lateral 
movement dominates on these faults but an increasingly large amount of thrust faulting resulting 
from compression across the system is now being identified also. 
 
The project site is located on the flatlands surrounding San Francisco Bay west of the present 
tidal flats.  The site is mapped as Holocene age coarse-grained alluvium (Qoa: Pampeyan, 
1994) and alluvial fan and fluvial deposits (Qhaf: Brabb et al., 1998), underlain by Franciscan 
Complex sandstone (fs) with interbedded siltstone and shale. 
 
2.2 
REGIONAL SEISMICITY 
 
The San Francisco Bay area region is one of the most seismically active areas in the Country.  
While seismologists cannot predict earthquake events, the U.S. Geological Survey’s Working 
Group on California Earthquake Probabilities 2015 revises earlier estimates from their 2008 
(2008, UCERF2) publication.  Compared to the previous assessment issued in 2008, the 
estimated rate of earthquakes around magnitude 6.7 (the size of the destructive 1994 
Northridge earthquake) has gone down by about 30 percent.  The expected frequency of such 
events statewide has dropped from an average of one per 4.8 years to about one per 6.3 years. 
However, in the new study, the estimate for the likelihood that California will experience a 
magnitude 8 or larger earthquake in the next 30 years has increased from about 4.7 percent for 
UCERF2 to about 7.0 percent for UCERF3. 
 
UCERF3 estimates that each region of California will experience a magnitude 6.7 or larger 
earthquake in the next 30 years.  Additionally, there is a 63 percent chance of at least one 
magnitude 6.7 or greater earthquake occurring in the Bay Area region between 2007 and 2036.   
 
The faults considered capable of generating significant earthquakes are generally associated 
with the well-defined areas of crustal movement, which trend northwesterly.  The table below 
presents the State-considered active faults within 25 kilometers of the site. 
 
Table 1: Approximate Fault Distances 
 
 
Fault Name 
Distance 
(miles) 
(kilometers) 
San Andreas (1906) 
3.2 
5.1 
Monte Vista-Shannon 
9.1 
14.7 
San Gregorio 
10.2 
16.5 
Hayward (Total Length) 
15.1 
24.3 
 
A regional fault map is presented as Figure 3, illustrating the relative distances of the site to 
significant fault zones. 
 
459 of 1252

--- page 460 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 4 
 
SECTION 3: SITE CONDITIONS 
 
3.1 
SITE BACKGROUND 
 
Based on aerial images provided on HistoricAerials.com website (NETROnline, 2019) and the 
referenced plans, the site was occupied by a few residential and/or commercial developments 
and several large trees in an image dated 1946.  The site was occupied by a large commercial 
building with at-grade parking areas and a residential development in the western and eastern 
portions of the site, respectively, in an image dated 1956.  The residential development was not 
observed in the eastern portion of the site in an image dated 1968; however, additional at-grade 
parking was observed.  Significant changes to the commercial development were not observed 
in images dated 1980 through 1993.  The current commercial development at the site was 
observed in an image dated 2002, and based on the referenced plans, the current development 
was constructed in 1996.  Significant changes to the current development were not observed in 
images dated after 2002. 
 
3.2 
SURFACE DESCRIPTION 
 
The site is currently occupied by a commercial development consisting of a two-story 
commercial building with at-grade and one level of below-grade parking.  The site is relatively 
level and at or near the elevation of the adjacent properties and roadways.  Based on the 
referenced plans, the elevation of the site ranges from Elevation 25 feet in the southeastern 
portion of the site to 29.5 feet in the northwestern portion of the site, City of San Mateo Datum 
(CSMD). 
 
Surface pavements of the adjacent roadways (Ellsworth Avenue and B Street) generally 
consisted of 6 to 8 inches of asphalt concrete over 3 to 8 inches of aggregate base.  Based on 
our observations, the existing pavements are in good/poor condition with significant alligator 
cracking. 
 
3.3 
SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS 
 
Below the surface pavements, our explorations generally encountered undocumented fill over 
alluvial soil.  The undocumented fill was encountered to a depth of 5 feet (corresponding to 
Elevations 20.5 and 24 feet CSMD for Exploratory Borings EB-1 and EB-2, respectively), and 
consisted of sandy lean clay and clayey sand.  The underlying alluvial soil was encountered to a 
depth of 60 feet below the existing grades (corresponding to Elevations -34.5 and -31 feet 
CSMD), the maximum depth explored and consisted of very stiff to hard, sandy lean clay with 
gravel, sandy lean clay, and lean clay with sand.  Several prominent layers of medium dense to 
dense, clayey sand with gravel and dense to very dense, poorly graded sand with gravel were 
encountered at depths of 5 to 22 feet (corresponding to Elevations 20.5 and 3.5 feet CSMD, 
respectively) within EB-1, and 1 to 17½ feet (corresponding to Elevations 28 and 11.5 feet 
CSMD, respectively) and 22½ to 26 feet (corresponding to Elevations 6.5 and 3 feet CSMD, 
respectively) within EB-2.   
 
460 of 1252

--- page 461 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 5 
 
3.3.1 Plasticity/Expansion Potential 
 
We performed one Plasticity Index (PI) test on a representative sample of the foundation 
bearing soil.  Test results were used to evaluate expansion potential of surficial soil.  The test 
resulted in a PI of 17, indicating low expansion potential to wetting and drying cycles. 
 
3.3.2 In-Situ Moisture Contents 
 
Laboratory testing indicated that the in-situ moisture contents within the upper 10 feet are at or 
near the estimated laboratory optimum moisture.  Moisture contents from 10 to 25 feet range 
from 0 to 5 percent over the estimated laboratory optimum moisture. 
 
3.4 
GROUNDWATER 
 
Groundwater was encountered in our Exploratory Borings (EB-1 and EB-2) at depths of 31 to 32 
feet below existing grades (corresponding to Elevations -2 and -6.5 feet CSMD, respectively).  
All measurements were taken at the time of drilling and may not represent the stabilized levels 
that can be higher than the initial levels encountered.  Historic high groundwater at the site is 
mapped at a depth of 18 feet (CGS 2018).  Additionally, groundwater monitoring wells in the 
vicinity of the site (e.g. within approximately 600 feet), indicate depths to groundwater to be 
about 16¾ to 21½ feet below the existing grades. therefore, a design groundwater depth of 18 
feet is recommended. 
 
Fluctuations in groundwater levels occur due to many factors including seasonal fluctuation, 
underground drainage patterns, regional fluctuations, and other factors. 
 
3.5 
CORROSION SCREENING 
  
We tested one sample collected at a depth of 25 feet for resistivity, pH, soluble sulfates, and 
chlorides.  The laboratory test results are summarized in Table 2A. 
  
Table 2A:  Summary of Corrosion Test Results 
  
Sample 
Location 
Soil Type 
Depth 
(feet) 
Soil pH1 
Resistivity2 
(ohm-cm) 
Chloride3 
(mg/kg) 
Sulfate4,5 
(mg/kg) 
EB-1 
Lean Clay 
25 
6.7 
3,304 
5 
10 
Notes:     1ASTM G51 
2ASTM G57 - 100% saturation 
3ASTM D3427/Cal 422 Modified 
4ASTM D3427/Cal 417 Modified 
51 mg/kg = 0.0001% by dry weight 
 
Many factors can affect the corrosion potential of soil including moisture content, resistivity, 
permeability, and pH, as well as chloride and sulfate concentration.  Typically, soil resistivity, 
which is a measurement of how easily electrical current flows through a medium (soil and/or 
water), is the most influential factor.  In addition to soil resistivity, chloride and sulfate ion 
concentrations, and pH also contribute in affecting corrosion potential. 
461 of 1252

--- page 462 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 6 
 
3.4.1 Preliminary Soil Corrosion Screening 
 
Based on the laboratory test results summarized in Table 2A and published correlations 
between resistivity and corrosion potential, the soil may be considered moderately corrosive to 
buried metallic improvements (Chaker and Palmer, 1989).   
 
In accordance with the 2016 CBC Section 1904A.1, alternative cementitious materials for 
different exposure categories and classes shall be determined in accordance with ACI 318-14 
Table 19.3.1.1, Table R19.3.1, and Table 19.3.2.1.  Based on the laboratory sulfate test results, 
a cement type restriction is not required, although, in our opinion, it is generally a good idea to 
include some sulfate resistance and to maintain a relatively low water-cement ratio.  We have 
summarized applicable exposure categories and classes from ACI 318-14, Table 19.3.1.1 below 
in Table 2B. 
  
Table 2B: ACI 318-14 Table 19.3.1.1 Exposure Categories and Classes  
 
Boring No. / Soil Type 
Freezing and 
Thawing (F) 
Sulfate (S, soil) 
In Contact with 
Water (W) 
Corrosion Protection 
of Reinforcement (C) 
EB-1 / Lean Clay 
F0¹ 
S0² 
W0³ 
C1⁴ 
1 (F0) “Concrete not exposed to freezing-and-thawing cycles” (ACI 318-14) 
2 (S0) “Water soluble sulfate in soil, percent by mass” is less than 0.10 (ACI 318-14) 
3 (W0) “Concrete in contact with water and low permeability is not required” (ACI 318-14) 
4 (C1) “Concrete exposed to moisture but not to an external source of chlorides” (ACI 318-14) 
  
In addition, ACI 318-14, Table 19.3.2.1 provides requirements for concrete by exposure class.  
Table 2C below indicates different requirements that we recommend be followed for the 
concrete design. 
 
Table 2C: ACI 318-14 Table 19.3.2.1 Requirements for Concrete by Exposure Class  
 
Exposure 
Class 
Maximum 
water:cement 
ratio 
Minimum 
Compressive 
Strength (psi) 
Cementitious 
materials – Types 
(ASTM C150) 
Maximum Water-
Soluble Chloride Ion 
Content (% wt) 
F0 
N/A 
2,500 
N/A 
N/A 
S0 
N/A 
2,500 
No type restriction 
N/A 
W0 
N/A 
2,500 
N/A 
N/A 
C1 
N/A 
2,500 
N/A 
0.30 (0.06)¹ 
1 Maximum water-soluble chloride ion content for non-pre-stressed concrete, (value for pre-stressed concrete). 
 
We recommend the structural engineer and a corrosion engineer be retained to confirm the 
information provided and for additional recommendations, as required. 
 
SECTION 4: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS 
 
4.1 
FAULT RUPTURE 
 
As discussed above several significant faults are located within 25 kilometers of the site.  The 
site is not located within a State-designated Alquist Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone.  As shown in 
462 of 1252

--- page 463 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 7 
 
Figure 3, no known surface expression of fault traces is thought to cross the site; therefore, fault 
rupture hazard is not a significant geologic hazard at the site. 
 
4.2 
ESTIMATED GROUND SHAKING 
 
Moderate to severe (design-level) earthquakes can cause strong ground shaking, which is the 
case for most sites within the Bay Area.  Peak ground accelerations (PGA) of 0.764g was 
estimated for analysis using a value equal to PGAM = FPGA × PGAG (Equation 11.8-1) as allowed 
in the 2016 California Building Code (CBC). 
 
4.3 
LIQUEFACTION POTENTIAL 
 
The site is not currently mapped within a liquefaction hazard zone (CGS, 2018) and is within a 
zone mapped as having a very low to low susceptibility to liquefaction by the Association of Bay 
Area Governments (ABAG, 2007).  We screened the site for liquefaction during our site 
exploration by retrieving samples from the site, performing visual classification on sampled 
materials, and performing various tests to further classify the soil properties. 
 
4.3.1 Background 
 
During strong seismic shaking, cyclically induced stresses can cause increased pore pressures 
within the soil matrix that can result in liquefaction triggering, soil softening due to shear stress 
loss, potentially significant ground deformation due to settlement within sandy liquefiable layers 
as pore pressures dissipate, and/or flow failures in sloping ground or where open faces are 
present (lateral spreading) (NCEER 1998).  Limited field and laboratory data is available 
regarding ground deformation due to settlement; however, in clean sand layers settlement on 
the order of 2 to 4 percent of the liquefied layer thickness can occur.  Soils most susceptible to 
liquefaction are loose, non-cohesive soils that are saturated and are bedded with poor drainage, 
such as sand and silt layers bedded with a cohesive cap. 
 
4.3.2 Analysis 
 
As discussed in the “Subsurface” section above, our borings predominately encountered dense 
sand below the design groundwater depth of 18 feet; however, we performed a liquefaction 
analysis to evaluate the potential for liquefaction induced settlement.  Following the procedures 
in the 2008 monograph, Soil Liquefaction During Earthquakes (Idriss and Boulanger, 2008) and 
in accordance with CDMG Special Publication 117A guidelines (CDMG, 2008) for quantitative 
analysis, this layer was analyzed for liquefaction triggering and potential post-liquefaction 
settlement.  These methods compare the ratio of the estimated cyclic shaking (Cyclic Stress 
Ratio - CSR) to the soil’s estimated resistance to cyclic shaking (Cyclic Resistance Ratio - 
CRR), providing a factor of safety against liquefaction triggering.  Factors of safety less than or 
equal to 1.3 are considered to be potentially liquefiable and capable of post-liquefaction re-
consolidation. 
 
The CSR for each layer quantifies the stresses anticipated to be generated due to a design-
level seismic event, is based on the peak horizontal acceleration generated at the ground 
463 of 1252

--- page 464 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 8 
 
surface discussed in the “Estimated Ground Shaking” section above, and is corrected for 
overburden and stress reduction factors as discussed in the procedure developed by Seed and 
Idriss (1971) and updated in the 2008 Idriss and Boulanger monograph. 
 
The soil’s CRR is estimated from the in-situ density and strength obtained from field SPT blow 
counts (“N” value).  The “N” values are corrected for effective overburden stresses, taking into 
consideration both the ground water level at the time of exploration and the design ground water 
level, and stress reduction versus depth factors.  The “N” values are also corrected for fines 
content, hammer efficiency, boring diameter, rod length, and sampler type (with or without 
liners). 
 
4.3.3 Summary of Liquefaction Potential 
 
Our analyses indicate the dense to very dense sandy layers encountered in our borings below 
the design groundwater depth of 18 feet are not susceptible to liquefaction based on the 
Yoshimine (2006) method. 
 
4.3.4 Ground Rupture Potential 
 
The methods used to estimate liquefaction settlement assume there is a sufficient cap of non-
liquefiable material to prevent ground rupture or sand boils.  Based on the results of our 
liquefaction analysis discussed above, the potential for ground rupture to occur at the site is 
negligible. 
 
4.4 
LATERAL SPREADING 
 
Lateral spreading is horizontal/lateral ground movement of relatively flat-lying soil deposits 
towards a free face such as an excavation, channel, or open body of water; typically, lateral 
spreading is associated with liquefaction of one or more subsurface layers near the bottom of 
the exposed slope.  As failure tends to propagate as block failures, it is difficult to analyze and 
estimate where the first tension crack will form. 
 
San Mateo Creek is located approximately 980 to 1,450 feet northwest and northeast of the site, 
respectively.  Additionally, the potential for liquefaction at the site is negligible.  Therefore, the 
potential for lateral spreading to occur and/or impact the proposed improvements at the site is 
also considered to be negligible. 
 
4.5 
SEISMIC SETTLEMENT/UNSATURATED SAND SHAKING 
 
Loose unsaturated sandy soils can settle during strong seismic shaking.  We evaluated the 
potential for seismic compaction of the medium dense sandy soil encountered in our borings 
above a design groundwater depth of 18 based on the work by Pradell (1998).  Our analyses 
indicate that seismic compaction of the sandy soil could result in up to ¾ inch of settlement at 
the ground surface after strong seismic shaking; however, based on the upper 25 feet of soil 
being removed for excavation of the basement levels, the remaining seismic sand settlement 
that could occur would be negligible. 
464 of 1252

--- page 465 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 9 
 
4.6 
TSUNAMI/SEICHE 
 
The terms tsunami or seiche are described as ocean waves or similar waves usually created by 
undersea fault movement or by a coastal or submerged landslide.  Tsunamis may be generated 
at great distance from shore (far field events) or nearby (near field events).  Waves are formed, 
as the displaced water moves to regain equilibrium, and radiates across the open water, similar 
to ripples from a rock being thrown into a pond.  When the waveform reaches the coastline, it 
quickly raises the water level, with water velocities as high as 15 to 20 knots.  The water mass, 
as well as vessels, vehicles, or other objects in its path create tremendous forces as they impact 
coastal structures.     
 
Tsunamis have affected the coastline along the Pacific Northwest during historic times.  The 
Fort Point tide gauge in San Francisco recorded approximately 21 tsunamis between 1854 and 
1964.  The 1964 Alaska earthquake generated a recorded wave height of 7.4 feet and drowned 
eleven people in Crescent City, California.  For the case of a far-field event, the Bay area would 
have hours of warning; for a near field event, there may be only a few minutes of warning, if 
any. 
 
A tsunami or seiche originating in the Pacific Ocean would lose much of its energy passing 
through San Francisco Bay.  Based on maps of tsunami inundation zones (CGS, 2009) and the 
study of tsunami inundation potential for the San Francisco Bay Area (Ritter and Dupre, 1972), 
areas most likely to be inundated are marshlands, tidal flats, and former bay margin lands that 
are now artificially filled, but are still at or below sea level, and are generally within 1½ miles of 
the shoreline.  The site is approximately 1.2 miles inland from the San Francisco Bay shoreline 
and is approximately 25.5 to 29 feet above mean sea level.  Therefore, the potential for 
inundation due to tsunami or seiche is considered low. 
 
4.7 
FLOODING 
 
Based on our internet search of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) flood 
map public database, the site is located within Zone X described as “Areas determined to be 
outside the 0.2% annual chance floodplain.  We recommend the project civil engineer be 
retained to confirm this information and verify the base flood elevation, if appropriate. 
 
SECTION 5: CONCLUSIONS 
 
5.1 
SUMMARY 
 
From a geotechnical viewpoint, the project is feasible provided the concerns listed below are 
addressed in the project design.  Descriptions of each concern with brief outlines of our 
recommendations follow the listed concerns. 
 
 
Proximity of basement excavation to existing improvements 
 
Presence of cohesionless soil at basement level 
 
Differential movement at on-grade to on-structure transitions 
465 of 1252

--- page 466 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 10 
 
 
Potential for seismic and static settlement 
 
Soil corrosion potential 
 
5.1.1  Proximity of Basement Excavation to Existing Improvements 
 
We understand the basement will likely extend to the existing property lines.  Temporary shoring 
to support the approximately 25-foot deep excavation adjacent to East 4th and 5th Avenues, 
Ellsworth Avenue, and B Street will likely be necessary.  Recommendations for temporary 
shoring are provided in this report.   
 
5.1.2 Presence of Cohesionless Soil at Basement Level 
 
As discussed, cohesionless (sandy) soils with variable amounts of fines were encountered 
within portions of the upper 25 feet of the soil profile that may be susceptible to localized 
sloughing or caving.  Contractors should plan on forming footings where sand with low fines 
contents are encountered, as well as preparation of slab-on-grade subgrade just prior to 
concrete placement.  Other similar construction issues as relates to temporary shoring, utility 
excavations, and granular material at the base of the basement excavation.  These 
considerations are discussed further within the “Earthwork” and “Foundations” sections of this 
report. 
 
5.1.3 Differential Movement At On-grade to On-Structure Transitions 
 
Some of the at-grade sidewalks and other improvements will transition from on-grade support to 
overlying the basement.  Where the depth of soil cover overlying the basement roof and at-
grade improvements is thin or where basement walls extend to within inches of finished grade, 
these transition areas typically experience increased differential movement due to a variety of 
causes, including difficulty in achieving compaction of retaining wall backfill closest to the wall.  
We recommend consideration be given to where engineered fill is placed behind retaining walls 
extending to near finished grade, and that subslabs be included beneath flatwork or pavers that 
can span at least 3 feet beyond the wall.  If surface improvements are included that are highly 
sensitive to differential movement, additional measures may be necessary.  We also 
recommend that retaining wall backfill be compacted to 95 percent where surface improvements 
are planned (see “Retaining Wall” section). 
 
5.1.4 Potential For Seismic and Static Settlement 
 
5.1.4.1  
Seismic Sand Settlement 
 
Additionally, our seismic sand settlement analysis indicates that there is a potential for seismic 
compaction of localized sand layers located above the design groundwater depth of 18 feet 
during a significant seismic event.  Our analysis indicates that seismic sand settlement of up to 
¾ inch could occur at the ground surface; however, based on the upper 25 feet of soil being 
removed for excavation of the basement levels, our analysis indicates the remaining total 
seismic sand settlement will be negligible. 
 
466 of 1252

--- page 467 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 11 
 
5.1.4.2            Static Settlement 
 
We performed static settlement analyses, based on assumed foundation loads, to estimate the 
settlement that will occur due to static loading conditions for the proposed building.  Our 
analysis indicates that approximately 1¼ inches of total static settlement will occur for the 
proposed four-story office/retail building under the anticipated static structural loads, with about 
¾ inch of differential static settlement in 30 feet across a mat foundation. 
 
Foundations should be designed to tolerate the anticipated total and differential settlement.  
Based on our analysis with assumed foundation loads, it should be feasible to support the 
proposed building on shallow foundations; however, the building foundations will need to be 
designed to tolerate total and differential settlement due to static loads and liquefaction-induced 
settlement.  Detailed foundation recommendations are presented in the “Foundations” section. 
 
5.1.5 Soil Corrosion Potential 
 
Our testing indicates sulfate exposure at the site is low and therefore no cement-type 
restrictions to buried concrete.  The corrosion potential for buried metallic structures, such as 
metal pipes, is considered moderately corrosive.  Based on the results of the preliminary soil 
corrosion screening, special requirements for corrosion control will likely be required to protect 
metal pipes and fittings. 
 
5.2 
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REVIEW 
 
We recommend that we be retained to review the geotechnical aspects of the project structural, 
civil, and landscape plans and specifications, allowing sufficient time to provide the design team 
with any comments prior to issuing the plans for construction.   
 
5.3 
CONSTRUCTION OBSERVATION AND TESTING 
 
As site conditions may vary significantly between the small-diameter borings performed during 
this investigation, we also recommend that a Cornerstone representative be present to provide 
geotechnical observation and testing during earthwork and foundation construction.  This will 
allow us to form an opinion and prepare a letter at the end of construction regarding contractor 
compliance with project plans and specifications, and with the recommendations in our report.  
We will also be allowed to evaluate any conditions differing from those encountered during our 
investigation and provide supplemental recommendations as necessary.  For these reasons, the 
recommendations in this report are contingent of Cornerstone providing observation and testing 
during construction.  Contractors should provide at least a 48-hour notice when scheduling our 
field personnel. 
 
 
 
467 of 1252

--- page 468 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 12 
 
SECTION 6: EARTHWORK 
 
6.1 
SITE DEMOLITION 
 
All existing improvements not to be reused for the current development, including all 
foundations, flatwork, pavements, utilities, and other improvements should be demolished and 
removed from the site.  Recommendations in this section apply to the removal of these 
improvements, which are currently present on the site, prior to the start of mass grading or the 
construction of new improvements for the project. 
 
Cornerstone should be notified prior to the start of demolition and should be present on at least 
a part-time basis during all backfill and mass grading as a result of demolition.  Occasionally, 
other types of buried structures (wells, cisterns, debris pits, etc.) can be found on sites with prior 
development.  If encountered, Cornerstone should be contacted to address these types of 
structures on a case-by-case basis.  
 
6.1.1 Demolition of Existing Slabs, Foundations and Pavements 
 
All slabs, foundations, and pavements should be completely removed from within planned 
building areas.   
 
We anticipate the majority of the existing improvements at the site will be removed during 
excavation for the basement; however, as an owner value-engineered option, existing slabs and 
foundations that extend into areas of planned at-grade improvements such as flatwork or 
landscape areas may be left in place provided there is at least 3 feet of engineered fill overlying 
the remaining materials, they are shown not to conflict with new utilities, and that asphalt and 
concrete more than 10 feet square is broken up to allow subsurface drainage.  Future distress 
and/or higher maintenance may result from leaving these prior improvements in place.  A 
discussion of recycling existing improvements is provided later in this report. 
 
Special care should be taken during the demolition and removal of existing floor slabs, 
foundations, utilities and pavements to minimize disturbance of the subgrade.  Excessive 
disturbance of the subgrade, which includes either native or previously placed engineered fill, 
resulting from demolition activities can have serious detrimental effects on planned foundation 
and paving elements.  
 
Existing foundations are typically mat-slabs, shallow footings, or piers/piles.  If drilled piers are 
encountered within areas of planned at-grade improvements, they should be cut off at an 
elevation at least 60 inches below proposed improvements or the final subgrade elevation, 
whichever is deeper.  The remainder of the drilled pier could remain in place.  As discussed, 
improvements encountered within the planned building footprint are anticipated to be removed 
during excavation for the below-grade parking levels.  Foundation elements to remain in place 
should be surveyed and superimposed on the proposed development plans to determine the 
potential for conflicts or detrimental impacts to the planned construction.  Following review, 
additional mitigation or planned foundation elements may need to be modified. 
 
468 of 1252

--- page 469 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 13 
 
6.1.2 Abandonment of Existing Utilities 
 
All existing utilities within the building footprint are anticipated to be removed during excavations 
for the basement levels.  Utilities extending beyond the building area may be abandoned in 
place provided the ends are plugged with concrete, they do not conflict with planned 
improvements, and that the trench fills do not pose significant risk to the planned surface 
improvements.  
 
The risk for owners associated with abandoning utilities in place include the potential for future 
differential settlement of existing trench fills, and/or partial collapse and potential ground loss 
into utility lines that are not completely filled with grout. 
 
6.2 
SITE CLEARING AND PREPARATION 
 
6.2.1 Site Stripping 
 
The site should be stripped of all surface and subsurface improvements to be removed within 
the proposed development area.  Demolition of existing improvements is discussed in the prior 
paragraphs. 
 
6.3 
REMOVAL OF EXISTING FILLS 
 
Although up to 5 feet of undocumented fill was encountered within our borings, fills extending 
into planned at-grade flatwork areas will likely be removed during excavation for the basement 
levels.   
 
If materials are encountered that do not meet the requirements, such as debris, wood, trash, 
those materials should be screened out of the remaining material and be removed from the site.  
Backfill of excavations should be placed in lifts and compacted in accordance with the 
“Compaction” section below. 
 
6.4 
TEMPORARY CUT AND FILL SLOPES 
 
The contractor is responsible for maintaining all temporary slopes and providing temporary 
shoring where required.  Temporary shoring, bracing, and cuts/fills should be performed in 
accordance with the strictest government safety standards.  On a preliminary basis, the upper 
15 feet at the site may be classified as OSHA Soil Type C materials.  A Cornerstone 
representative should be retained to confirm the preliminary site classification.  Recommended 
soil parameters for temporary shoring are provided in the “Temporary Shoring” section of this 
report. 
 
Excavations performed during site demolition and fill removal should be sloped at 3:1 
(horizontal:vertical) within the upper 5 feet below building subgrade.  Excavations extending 
more than 5 feet below building subgrade and excavations in pavement and flatwork areas 
should be sloped in accordance with the OSHA soil classification. 
 
469 of 1252

--- page 470 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 14 
 
6.5 
BELOW-GRADE EXCAVATIONS 
 
Below-grade excavations may be constructed with temporary slopes in accordance with the 
“Temporary Cut and Fill Slopes” section above if space allows.  Alternatively, temporary shoring 
may support the planned cuts up to 25 feet.  We have provided geotechnical parameters for 
shoring design in the section below.  The choice of shoring method should be left to the 
contractor’s judgment based on experience, economic considerations and adjacent 
improvements such as utilities, pavements, and foundation loads.  Temporary shoring should 
support adjacent improvements without distress and should be the contractor’s responsibility.  A 
pre-condition survey including photographs and installation of monitoring points for existing site 
improvements should be included in the contractor’s scope.  We should be provided the 
opportunity to review the geotechnical parameters of the shoring design prior to implementation; 
the project structural engineer should be consulted regarding support of adjacent structures. 
 
6.5.1 Temporary Shoring 
 
Based on the site conditions encountered during our investigation, the cuts may be supported 
by soldier beams and tie-backs, braced excavations, soil nailing, or potentially other methods.  
Where shoring will extend more than about 10 feet, restrained shoring will most likely be 
required to limit detrimental lateral deflections and settlement behind the shoring.  In addition to 
soil earth pressures, the shoring system will need to support adjacent loads such as 
construction vehicles and incidental loading, existing structure foundation loads, and street 
loading.  Heavy construction loads (cranes, etc.) and material stockpiles are not likely to be able 
to be kept at least 15 feet behind the shoring; therefore, we recommend the shoring be 
designed to support the loading.  The shoring designer should provide for timely and uniform 
mobilization of soil pressures that will not result in excessive lateral deflections.  Minimum 
suggested geotechnical parameters for shoring design are provided in the table below. 
 
Table 3: Suggested Temporary Shoring Design Parameters 
 
Design Parameter 
Design Value 
Minimum Lateral Wall Surcharge (upper 5 feet) 
120 psf 
Cantilever Wall – Triangular Earth Pressure 
40 pcf 
Restrained Wall – Uniform Earth Pressure 
25H* 
Passive Pressure – Starting at 2 feet below the bottom of the 
excavation or bottom of foundation excavations, whichever is 
deeper 
400 pcf up to 2,000 psf 
maximum uniform pressure 
* H equals the height of the excavation; passive pressures are assumed to act over twice the soldier pile 
diameter 
 
We performed our borings with hollow-stem auger drilling equipment and as such were not able 
to evaluate the potential for caving soils, which can create difficult conditions during soldier 
beam, tie-back, or soil nail installation; caving soils can also be problematic during excavation 
and lagging placement.  The contractor is responsible for evaluating excavation difficulties prior 
to construction.  Where relatively clean sands were encountered during our exploration, pilot 
470 of 1252

--- page 471 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 15 
 
holes performed by the contractor may be desired to further evaluate these conditions prior to 
the finalization of the shoring budget.   
 
In addition to anticipated deflection of the shoring system, other factors such as voids created 
by soil sloughing, and erosion of granular layers due to perched water conditions can create 
adverse ground subsidence and deflections.  The contractor should attempt to cut the 
excavation as close to neat lines as possible; where voids are created, they should be backfilled 
as soon as possible with sand, gravel, or grout. 
 
As previously mentioned, we recommend that a monitoring program be developed and 
implemented to evaluate the effects of the shoring on adjacent improvements.  All sensitive 
improvements should be located and monitored for horizontal and vertical deflections and 
distress cracking based on a pre-construction survey.  For multi-level excavations, the 
installation of inclinometers at critical areas may be desired for more detailed deflection 
monitoring.  The monitoring frequency should be established and agree to by the project team 
prior to start of shoring construction. 
 
The above recommendations are for the use of the design team; the contractor in conjunction 
with input from the shoring designer should perform additional subsurface exploration they 
deem necessary to design the chosen shoring system.  A California-licensed civil or structural 
engineer must design and be in responsible charge of the temporary shoring design.  The 
contractor is responsible for means and methods of construction, as well as site safety. 
 
6.6 
AT-GRADE SUBGRADE PREPARATION 
 
After site clearing and demolition is complete, and prior to backfilling any excavations resulting 
from fill removal or demolition, at-grade excavation subgrade and subgrade within areas to 
receive additional site fills and/or slabs-on-grade should be scarified to a depth of at least 6 
inches, moisture conditioned, and compacted in accordance with the “Compaction” section 
below. 
 
6.7 
SUBGRADE PREPARATION 
 
Due to the sandy soils likely to be encountered at the subgrade elevation, we recommend that 
subgrade compaction and proof rolling be performed within 24 hours of capillary break layer or 
slab-on-grade construction. 
 
6.8 
SUBGRADE STABILIZATION MEASURES 
 
Soil subgrade and fill materials, especially soils with high fines contents such as clays and silty 
soils, can become unstable due to high moisture content, whether from high in-situ moisture 
contents or from winter rains.  As the moisture content increases over the laboratory optimum, it 
becomes more likely the materials will be subject to softening and yielding (pumping) from 
construction loading or become unworkable during placement and compaction.   
 
471 of 1252

--- page 472 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 16 
 
As discussed in the “Subsurface” section in this report, the in-situ moisture contents are about 0 
to 5 percent over the estimated laboratory optimum in the upper 25 feet of the soil profile.  The 
contractor should anticipate drying the soils prior to reusing them as fill.  In addition, repetitive 
rubber-tire loading will likely de-stabilize the soil. 
 
6.8.1 Below-Grade Excavation Stabilization 
 
As the planned basement excavation will extend near the current ground water level, we 
recommend that the contractor plan to excavate an additional 12 to 18 inches below subgrade, 
place a layer of stabilization fabric (Mirafi RS380i, or equivalent) at the bottom, and backfill with 
clean, crushed rock.  The crushed rock should be consolidated in place with light vibratory 
equipment.  Rubber-tire equipment should not be allowed to operate on the exposed subgrade; 
the crushed rock should be stockpiled and pushed out over the stabilization fabric. 
 
6.9 
MATERIAL FOR FILL 
 
6.9.1 Re-Use of On-site Soils 
 
On-site soils with an organic content less than 3 percent by weight may be reused as general 
fill.  General fill should not have lumps, clods or cobble pieces larger than 6 inches in diameter; 
85 percent of the fill should be smaller than 2½ inches in diameter.  Minor amounts of oversize 
material (smaller than 12 inches in diameter) may be allowed provided the oversized pieces are 
not allowed to nest together and the compaction method will allow for loosely placed lifts not 
exceeding 12 inches. 
 
6.9.2 Potential Import Sources 
 
Imported and non-expansive material should be inorganic with a Plasticity Index (PI) of 15 or 
less, and not contain recycled asphalt concrete where it will be used within the building area.  
To prevent significant caving during trenching or foundation construction, imported material 
should have sufficient fines.  Samples of potential import sources should be delivered to our 
office at least 10 days prior to the desired import start date.  Information regarding the import 
source should be provided, such as any site geotechnical reports.  If the material will be derived 
from an excavation rather than a stockpile, potholes will likely be required to collect samples 
from throughout the depth of the planned cut that will be imported.  At a minimum, laboratory 
testing will include PI tests.  Material data sheets for select fill materials (Class 2 aggregate 
base, ¾ inch crushed rock, quarry fines, etc.) listing current laboratory testing data (not older 
than 6 months from the import date) may be provided for our review without providing a sample.  
If current data is not available, specification testing will need to be completed prior to approval. 
 
Environmental and soil corrosion characterization should also be considered by the project team 
prior to acceptance.  Suitable environmental laboratory data to the planned import quantity 
should be provided to the project environmental consultant; additional laboratory testing may be 
required based on the project environmental consultant’s review.  The potential import source 
should also not be more corrosive than the on-site soils, based on pH, saturated resistivity, and 
soluble sulfate and chloride testing. 
472 of 1252

--- page 473 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 17 
 
6.10 
COMPACTION REQUIREMENTS 
 
All fills, and subgrade areas where fill, slabs-on-grade, and pavements are planned, should be 
placed in loose lifts 8 inches thick or less and compacted in accordance with ASTM D1557 
(latest version) requirements as shown in the table below.  In general, clayey soils should be 
compacted with sheepsfoot equipment and sandy/gravelly soils with vibratory equipment; open-
graded materials such as crushed rock should be placed in lifts no thicker than 18 inches 
consolidated in place with vibratory equipment.  Each lift of fill and all subgrade should be firm 
and unyielding under construction equipment loading in addition to meeting the compaction 
requirements to be approved.  The contractor (with input from a Cornerstone representative) 
should evaluate the in-situ moisture conditions, as the use of vibratory equipment on soils with 
high moistures can cause unstable conditions.  General recommendations for soil stabilization 
are provided in the “Subgrade Stabilization Measures” section of this report.  Where the soil’s PI 
is 20 or greater, the expansive soil criteria should be used. 
 
Table 4: Compaction Requirements 
 
 
Description 
 
Material Description 
Minimum Relative1 
Compaction 
(percent) 
Moisture2 
Content 
(percent) 
General Fill (within upper 5 feet) 
On-Site Soils 
90 
>1 
General Fill (below a depth of 5 feet) 
On-Site Soils 
95 
>1 
Basement Wall Backfill 
Without Surface Improvements 
90 
>1 
Basement Wall Backfill 
With Surface Improvements 
954 
>1 
Trench Backfill 
On-Site Soils 
90 
>1 
Trench Backfill (upper 6 inches of 
subgrade) 
On-Site Soils 
95 
>1 
Crushed Rock Fill 
¾-inch Clean Crushed Rock 
Consolidate In-Place 
NA 
Non-Expansive Fill 
Imported Non-Expansive Fill 
90 
Optimum 
Flatwork Subgrade 
On-Site Soils 
90 
>1 
Flatwork Aggregate Base 
Class 2 Aggregate Base3 
90 
Optimum 
Pavement Subgrade 
On-Site Soils 
95 
>1 
Pavement Aggregate Base 
Class 2 Aggregate Base3 
95 
Optimum 
Asphalt Concrete 
Asphalt Concrete 
95 
NA 
1 – Relative compaction based on maximum density determined by ASTM D1557 (latest version) 
2 – Moisture content based on optimum moisture content determined by ASTM D1557 (latest version) 
3 – Class 2 aggregate base shall conform to Caltrans Standard Specifications, latest edition, except that the relative 
compaction should be determined by ASTM D1557 (latest version) 
4 – Using light-weight compaction or walls should be braced 
 
 
 
473 of 1252

--- page 474 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 18 
 
6.10.1 Construction Moisture Conditioning 
 
Expansive soils can undergo significant volume change when dried then wetted.  The contractor 
should keep all exposed expansive soil subgrade (and also trench excavation side walls) moist 
until protected by overlying improvements (or trenches are backfilled).  If expansive soils are 
allowed to dry out significantly, re-moisture conditioning may require several days of re-wetting 
(flooding is not recommended), or deep scarification, moisture conditioning, and re-compaction. 
 
6.11 
TRENCH BACKFILL 
 
Utility lines constructed within public right-of-way should be trenched, bedded and shaded, and 
backfilled in accordance with the local or governing jurisdictional requirements.  Utility lines in 
private improvement areas should be constructed in accordance with the following requirements 
unless superseded by other governing requirements. 
 
All utility lines should be bedded and shaded to at least 6 inches over the top of the lines with 
crushed rock (⅜-inch-diameter or greater) or well-graded sand and gravel materials conforming 
to the pipe manufacturer’s requirements.  Open-graded shading materials should be 
consolidated in place with vibratory equipment and well-graded materials should be compacted 
to at least 90 percent relative compaction with vibratory equipment prior to placing subsequent 
backfill materials. 
 
General backfill over shading materials may consist of on-site native materials provided they 
meet the requirements in the “Material for Fill” section, and are moisture conditioned and 
compacted in accordance with the requirements in the “Compaction” section. 
 
Where utility lines will cross perpendicular to strip footings, the footing should be deepened to 
encase the utility line, providing sleeves or flexible cushions to protect the pipes from anticipated 
foundation settlement, or the utility lines should be backfilled to the bottom of footing with sand-
cement slurry or lean concrete.  Where utility lines will parallel footings and will extend below the 
“foundation plane of influence,” an imaginary 1:1 plane projected down from the bottom edge of 
the footing, either the footing will need to be deepened so that the pipe is above the foundation 
plane of influence or the utility trench will need to be backfilled with sand-cement slurry or lean 
concrete within the influence zone.  Sand-cement slurry used within foundation influence zones 
should have a minimum compressive strength of 75 psi. 
 
On expansive soils sites it is desirable to reduce the potential for water migration into building 
and pavement areas through the granular shading materials.  We recommend that a plug of 
low-permeability clay soil, sand-cement slurry, or lean concrete be placed within trenches just 
outside where the trenches pass into building and pavement areas. 
 
6.12 
SITE DRAINAGE 
 
Ponding should not be allowed adjacent to building foundations, slabs-on-grade, or pavements.  
Hardscape surfaces should slope at least 2 percent towards suitable discharge facilities; 
landscape areas should slope at least 3 percent towards suitable discharge facilities.  Roof 
474 of 1252

--- page 475 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 19 
 
runoff should be directed away from building areas in closed conduits, to approved infiltration 
facilities, or on to hardscaped surfaces that drain to suitable facilities.  Retention, detention or 
infiltration facilities should be spaced at least 10 feet from buildings, and preferably at least 5 
feet from slabs-on-grade or pavements.  However, if retention, detention or infiltration facilities 
are located within these zones, we recommend that these treatment facilities meet the 
requirements in the Storm Water Treatment Design Considerations section of this report.   
 
6.13 
LANDSCAPE CONSIDERATIONS 
 
Since the near-surface soils are moderately to highly expansive, we recommend greatly 
reducing the amount of surface water infiltrating these soils near foundations and exterior slabs-
on-grade.  This can typically be achieved by: 
 
 
Using drip irrigation 
 
 
Avoiding open planting within 3 feet of the building perimeter or near the top of existing 
slopes  
 
 
Regulating the amount of water distributed to lawns or planter areas by using irrigation 
timers 
 
 
Selecting landscaping that requires little or no watering, especially near foundations.   
 
We recommend that the landscape architect consider these items when developing landscaping 
plans. 
 
SECTION 7: FOUNDATIONS 
 
7.1 
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
In our opinion, the proposed structure may be supported on shallow foundations consisting of a 
mat foundation provided the recommendations in the “Earthwork” section and the sections 
below are followed. 
 
7.2 
SEISMIC DESIGN CRITERIA 
 
As discussed, the 2019 CBC will take effect starting January 1, 2020; therefore, the project 
structural design will be based on the 2019 CBC, which provides criteria for the seismic design 
of buildings in Chapter 16.  The “Seismic Coefficients” used to design buildings are established 
based on a series of tables and figures addressing different site factors, including the soil profile 
in the upper 100 feet below grade and mapped spectral acceleration parameters based on 
distance to the controlling seismic source/fault system.  Based on our borings and review of 
local geology, the site is underlain by deep alluvial soils with typical SPT “N” values between 15 
and 50 blows per foot.  Therefore, we have classified the site as Soil Classification D.  The 
mapped spectral acceleration parameters SS and S1 were calculated using the online web-based 
program ATC Hazards by Location (https://hazards.atcouncil.org), based on the site coordinates 
475 of 1252

--- page 476 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 20 
 
presented below and the site classification.  The values in Table 4 should not be used for 
design unless in the judgement of the project structural engineer Exception 2 under 
Section 11.4.8, of ASCE 7-16, can be used for project design. 
 
Table 4: 2019 CBC Site Categorization and Site Coefficients 
 
Classification/Coefficient 
Design Value 
Site Class 
D 
Site Latitude 
37.564246° 
Site Longitude 
-122.321656° 
0.2-second Period Mapped Spectral Acceleration1, SS 
1.88g 
1-second Period Mapped Spectral Acceleration1, S1 
0.771g 
Short-Period Site Coefficient – Fa 
1.0 
Long-Period Site Coefficient – Fv 
*null 
0.2-second Period, Maximum Considered Earthquake Spectral Response 
Acceleration Adjusted for Site Effects - SMS 
1.88g 
1-second Period, Maximum Considered Earthquake Spectral Response 
Acceleration Adjusted for Site Effects – SM1 
*null 
0.2-second Period, Design Earthquake Spectral Response Acceleration – SDS 
1.254g 
1-second Period, Design Earthquake Spectral Response Acceleration – SD1 
*null 
*null – Site-specific ground motion hazard analysis required. 
 
In our opinion, the proposed structure may be supported on shallow foundations consisting of a 
mat foundation provided the recommendations in the “Earthwork” section and the sections 
below are followed. 
 
7.3 
SHALLOW FOUNDATIONS 
 
As discussed, groundwater was encountered within our borings at depths of 31 to 32 feet below 
the existing grade.  Additionally, a design groundwater depth of 18 feet is recommended.  The 
bottom of the basement foundations is assumed to be at a depth of 25 feet; therefore, the 
design groundwater is about 7 feet above the assumed bottom of the basement foundation.  We 
recommend that waterproofing and hydrostatic pressure due perched water (above the 
basement slab and behind the walls) be considered in the foundation design.  Detailed 
recommendations are provided below.  
 
7.3.1 Reinforced Concrete Mat Foundation 
 
As discussed, the four-story office/retail building will include a two-level basement anticipated to 
be up to 25 feet below the existing grades.  Based on the assumed structural loads and the 
depth to historic high groundwater, the structure may be supported on a mat foundation. 
 
476 of 1252

--- page 477 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 21 
 
7.3.2 Allowable Mat Bearing Pressure 
 
We have estimated areal loading for our analysis based on a building load of 125 psf per floor 
for the above-grade steel office/retail structure and 150 psf per floor for the basement.  Based 
on the assumed structural loads and provided total footprint, we have estimated an average 
areal pressure of about 800 pounds per square foot (psf) for the structure.  We recommend the 
allowable bearing pressure at heavier loaded portions of the mat slab be limited to an allowable 
bearing pressure of 2,500 psf for dead plus live loads.  The maximum bearing pressure may be 
increased by one-third for all loads, including wind or seismic.  This pressure is a net value; the 
mat weight may be neglected for the portion of the mat extending below grade.  Top and bottom 
reinforcing steel should be included as required to help span irregularities and differential 
settlement.  It is essential that we observe the mat foundation pad prior to placement of 
reinforcing steel. 
 
7.3.3 Mat Foundation Settlement 
 
We estimate the total settlement due to static loading would be about 1¼ inches with differential 
movement of about ¾ inch generally from the center of the mat to the mat edges.  If foundations 
designed in accordance with the above recommendations are not capable of resisting such 
differential movement, additional reinforcement or increased mat thickness may be required. 
 
7.3.4 Mat Foundation Lateral Loading 
 
Lateral loads may be resisted by friction between the bottom of mat foundation and the 
supporting subgrade, and also by passive pressures generated against deepened mat edges.  
An ultimate frictional resistance of 0.4 (0.27 allowable) applied to the mat dead load, and an 
ultimate passive pressure based on an equivalent fluid pressure of 500 pcf (330 pcf allowable) 
may be used in design. 
 
7.3.5 Mat Modulus of Soil Subgrade Reaction 
 
We recommend using a variable modulus of subgrade reaction to provide a more accurate soil 
response and prediction of shears and moments in the mat.  This will require at least one 
iteration between our soil model and the structural SAFE (or equivalent) analysis for the mat.  A 
preliminary modulus of subgrade reaction for the initial analysis is provided below. 
 
As discussed above, we estimated an average areal pressure of 800 psf within the structure.  
Based on this pressure, we calculated a preliminary modulus of soil subgrade reaction for the 
mat foundation.  Based on the anticipated loads for the mat slabs and soil conditions, we 
recommend an initial modulus of soil subgrade reaction of 10 pci be used for preliminary SAFE 
runs.  As discussed above, this modulus of soil subgrade reaction is intended for use in the first 
iteration of the structural SAFE analysis for the mat design.  We will provide a revised plan with 
contours of equal modulus of subgrade reaction values following our receipt of output from initial 
SAFE runs indicating bearing pressures due to dead plus live loading across the mat. 
 
477 of 1252

--- page 478 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 22 
 
7.4 
HYDROSTATIC UPLIFT AND WATERPROOFING 
 
As discussed, perched groundwater conditions could potentially develop in the sand layers 
during the life of the structure.  To mitigate potential impacts to the structure due to perched 
groundwater buildup, we recommend that basement walls be designed with full drainage behind 
the walls or be designed for hydrostatic pressure (an additional 40 pcf of fluid pressure) and 
waterproofed.  However, waterproofing should be considered for drained wall also. 
 
If a perimeter foundation drain system to on-site detention is not planned, we recommend 
designing the slab for some amount of hydrostatic uplift pressure.  As the issue is the potential 
for short duration perched water events and not long-term water table rises, the choice of the 
amount of uplift pressure is difficult to predict, if it will even occur over the life of the structure.  
Therefore, the design could proceed based on a risk versus cost basis.  For a lower risk, we 
judge 7 feet of hydrostatic pressure to be reasonable, as measured from the basement finished 
floor.  To lower slab cost, at somewhat higher risk, 5 feet can be used.  
 
SECTION 8: CONCRETE SLABS AND PEDESTRIAN PAVEMENTS 
 
8.1 
BELOW-GRADE INTERIOR SLAB-ON-GRADE 
 
As the Plasticity Index (PI) of the surficial soils ranges up to 17, the proposed slabs-on-grade 
may be directly on subgrade prepared in accordance with the recommendations in the 
“Earthwork” section of this report.  However, if unstable subgrade conditions are encountered, 
subgrade stability recommendations provided in Section If moisture-sensitive floor coverings are 
planned, the recommendations in the “Interior Slabs Moisture Protection Considerations” 
section below may be incorporated in the project design if desired.  If significant time elapses 
between initial subgrade preparation and slab-on-grade NEF construction, the subgrade should 
be proof-rolled to confirm subgrade stability, and if the soil has been allowed to dry out, the 
subgrade should be re-moisture conditioned to at least 3 percent over the optimum moisture 
content. 
 
The structural engineer should determine the appropriate slab reinforcement for the loading 
requirements and considering the expansion potential of the underlying soils.  For unreinforced 
concrete slabs, ACI 302.1R recommends limiting control joint spacing to 24 to 36 times the slab 
thickness in each direction, or a maximum of 18 feet. 
 
8.2 
INTERIOR SLABS MOISTURE PROTECTION CONSIDERATIONS 
 
The following general guidelines for concrete slab-on-grade construction where floor coverings 
are planned are presented for the consideration by the developer, design team, and contractor.  
These guidelines are based on information obtained from a variety of sources, including the 
American Concrete Institute (ACI) and are intended to reduce the potential for moisture-related 
problems causing floor covering failures, and may be supplemented as necessary based on 
project-specific requirements.  The application of these guidelines or not will not affect the 
geotechnical aspects of the slab-on-grade performance. 
 
478 of 1252

--- page 479 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 23 
 
 
Place a minimum 10-mil vapor retarder conforming to ASTM E 1745, Class C 
requirements or better directly below the concrete slab; the vapor retarder should extend 
to the slab edges and be sealed at all seams and penetrations in accordance with 
manufacturer’s recommendations and ASTM E 1643 requirements.  A 4-inch-thick 
capillary break, consisting of crushed rock should be placed below the vapor retarder 
and consolidated in place with vibratory equipment.  The mineral aggregate shall be of 
such size that the percentage composition by dry weight as determined by laboratory 
sieves will conform to the following gradation: 
 
Sieve Size 
Percentage Passing Sieve 
1” 
100 
¾” 
90 – 100 
No. 4 
0 - 10 
 
 
The concrete water:cement ratio should be 0.45 or less.  Mid-range plasticizers may be 
used to increase concrete workability and facilitate pumping and placement. 
 
 
Water should not be added after initial batching unless the slump is less than specified 
and/or the resulting water:cement ratio will not exceed 0.45. 
 
 
Where floor coverings are planned, all concrete surfaces should be properly cured. 
 
 
Water vapor emission levels and concrete pH should be determined in accordance with 
ASTM F1869-98 and F710-98 requirements and evaluated against the floor covering 
manufacturer’s requirements prior to installation. 
 
8.3 
EXTERIOR FLATWORK (AT-GRADE) 
 
Exterior concrete flatwork subject to pedestrian and/or occasional light pick up loading may be 
supported directly on subgrade prepared in accordance with the “Earthwork” recommendations 
of this report.  To help reduce the potential for uncontrolled shrinkage cracking, adequate 
expansion and control joints should be included.  Consideration should be given to limiting the 
control joint spacing to a maximum of about 2 feet in each direction for each inch of concrete 
thickness.  Flatwork should be isolated from adjacent foundations or retaining walls except 
where limited sections of structural slabs are included to help span irregularities in retaining wall 
backfill at the transitions between at-grade and on-structure flatwork. 
 
SECTION 9: RETAINING WALLS 
 
9.1 
STATIC LATERAL EARTH PRESSURES 
 
The structural design of any site retaining wall should include resistance to lateral earth 
pressures that develop from the soil behind the wall, any undrained water pressure, and 
surcharge loads acting behind the wall.  Provided a drainage system is constructed behind the 
wall to prevent the build-up of hydrostatic pressures as discussed in the section below, we 
recommend that the walls with level backfill be designed for the following pressures: 
479 of 1252

--- page 480 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 24 
 
Table 5: Recommended Lateral Earth Pressures 
 
Wall Condition 
Lateral Earth Pressure* 
Additional Surcharge Loads 
Unrestrained – Cantilever Wall 
45 pcf 
⅓ of vertical loads at top of wall 
Restrained – Braced Wall 
45 pcf + 8H** psf 
½ of vertical loads at top of wall 
*   Lateral earth pressures are based on an equivalent fluid pressure for level backfill conditions 
** H is the distance in feet between the bottom of footing and top of retained soil 
 
Basement walls should be designed as restrained walls.  If adequate drainage cannot be 
provided behind the wall, an additional equivalent fluid pressure of 40 pcf should be added to 
the values above for both restrained and unrestrained walls for the portion of the wall that will 
not have drainage.  Damp proofing or waterproofing of the walls may be considered where 
moisture penetration and/or efflorescence are not desired. 
 
9.2 
SEISMIC LATERAL EARTH PRESSURES 
 
The 2016 California Building Code (CBC) states that lateral pressures from earthquakes should 
be considered in the design of basements and retaining walls.  We developed seismic earth 
pressures for the proposed basement using interim recommendations generally based on 
refinement of the Mononobe-Okabe method (Lew et al., SEAOC 2010).  Because the walls are 
greater than 12 feet in height, and peak ground accelerations are greater than 0.40g, we 
checked the result of the seismic increment when added to the recommended active earth 
pressure against the recommended fixed wall earth pressures.  Basement walls are not free to 
deflect and should therefore be designed for static conditions as a restrained wall, which is also 
a CBC requirement.  Based on current recommendations for seismic earth pressures, it appears 
that active earth pressures plus a seismic increment exceed the restrained (i.e. at-rest), static 
wall earth pressures.  Therefore, we recommend checking the walls for the seismic condition in 
accordance with the interim recommendations of the above referenced paper and the 2013 
CBC.   
 
The CBC prescribes basic load combinations for structures, components and foundations with 
the intention that their design strength equals or exceeds the effects of the factored loads.  With 
respect to the load from lateral earth pressure and groundwater pressure, the CBC prescribes 
the basic combinations shown in CBC equations 16-2 and 16-7 below.  
 
1.2(D + F) + 1.6(L + H) + 0.5(Lr or S or R) 
 
[Eq. 16-2] 
 
In Eq. 16-2:  H - should represent the total static lateral earth pressure, which for the basement wall will 
be restrained (use 45 pcf + 8H psf) 
 
0.9(D + F) + 1.0E + 1.6H 
 
 
 
 
 
[Eq. 16-7] 
 
In Eq. 16-7: 
H - should represent the static “active” earth pressure component under seismic loading 
conditions (use 45 pcf) 
  
480 of 1252

--- page 481 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 25 
 
E - should represent the seismic increment component in Eq. 16-7, a triangular load with 
a resultant force of 18.5H2, which should be applied one third of the height up from the 
base of the wall (and which can also be expressed as an equivalent fluid pressure equal 
to 37 pcf). 
 
The interim recommendations in the SEAOC paper more appropriately split out "active" earth 
pressure (and not the restrained ["at-rest"] pressure) from our report and provide the total 
seismic increment so that different load factors can be applied in accordance with different risk 
levels.   
 
9.3 
WALL DRAINAGE 
 
Miradrain, AmerDrain or other equivalent drainage matting should be used for wall drainage 
where below-grade walls are temporarily shored and the shoring will be flush with the back of 
the permanent walls.  The drainage panel should be connected at the base of the wall by a 
horizontal drainage strip and closed or through-wall system such as the TotalDrain system from 
AmerDrain.   
 
Sections of horizontal drainage strips should be connected with either the manufacturer’s 
connector pieces or by pulling back the filter fabric, overlapping the panel dimples, and 
replacing the filter fabric over the connection.  At corners, a corner guard, corner connection 
insert, or a section of crushed rock covered with filter fabric must be used to maintain the 
drainage path.  In addition, where drainage panels will connect from a horizontal application for 
plaza areas to vertical basement wall drainage panels, the drainage path must be maintained.  
We are not aware of manufactured corner protection suitable for this situation; therefore, we 
recommend that a section of crushed rock be placed at the transitions.  The crushed rock 
should be at least 3 inches thick, extend at least 12 inches horizontally over the top of the 
basement roof and 12 inches down from the top of the basement wall, and have a layer of filter 
fabric covering the crushed rock. 
 
Drainage panels should terminate 18 to 24 inches from final exterior grade unless capped by 
hardscape.  The drainage panel filter fabric should be extended over the top of and behind the 
panel to protect it from intrusion of the adjacent soil.  If the shoring system will be offset behind 
the back of permanent wall, the drainage systems discussed in the “At-Grade Site Walls” 
section may also be used. 
 
9.4 
VEHICLE SURCHARGE LOADS 
 
We understand the basement walls along East 4th and 5th Avenues, B Street, and South 
Ellsworth Avenue will possibly be extended under the existing sidewalk.  Therefore, the 
basement walls will likely be subject to traffic loads.   We recommend the basement walls along 
these streets be designed to resist a traffic surcharge load of 250 psf located at the top of the 
wall. 
 
 
 
481 of 1252

--- page 482 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 26 
 
9.5 
BACKFILL 
 
Where surface improvements will be located over the retaining wall backfill, backfill placed 
behind the walls should be compacted to at least 95 percent relative compaction using light 
compaction equipment.  Where surface improvements are not planned, backfill should be 
compacted to at least 90 percent.  If heavy compaction equipment is used, the walls should be 
temporarily braced.   
 
As discussed previously, consideration should be given to the transitions from on-grade to on-
structure.  Providing subslabs or other methods for reducing differential movement of flatwork or 
pavements across this transition should be included in the project design. 
 
9.6 
FOUNDATIONS (AT-GRADE) 
 
Site retaining walls may be supported on a continuous spread footing on natural, undisturbed 
soil or engineered fill, be at least 15 inches wide, and extend at least 16 inches below the lowest 
adjacent grade.  Lowest adjacent grade is defined as the deeper of the following: 1) bottom of 
the adjacent interior slab-on-grade, or 2) finished exterior grade, excluding landscaping topsoil.  
The deeper footing embedment is due to the presence of highly expansive soils and is intended 
to embed the footing below the zone of significant seasonal moisture fluctuation, reducing the 
potential for differential movement. 
 
Footings constructed to the above dimensions and in accordance with the “Earthwork” 
recommendations of this report are capable of supporting maximum allowable bearing 
pressures of 2,000 psf for dead loads, 3,000 psf for combined dead plus live loads, and       
4,000 psf for all loads including wind and seismic.  These pressures are based on factors of 
safety of 3.0, 2.0, and 1.5 applied to the ultimate bearing pressure for dead, dead plus live, and 
all loads, respectively.  These pressures are net values; the weight of the footing may be 
neglected for the portion of the footing extending below grade (typically, the full footing depth).  
Top and bottom mats of reinforcing steel should be included in continuous footings to help span 
irregularities and differential settlement. 
 
SECTION 10: LIMITATIONS 
 
This report, an instrument of professional service, has been prepared for the sole use of Lane 
Partners specifically to support the design of the commercial development located at 222 East 
4th Avenue in San Mateo, California.  The opinions, conclusions, and recommendations 
presented in this report have been formulated in accordance with accepted geotechnical 
engineering practices that exist in Northern California at the time this report was prepared.  No 
warranty, expressed or implied, is made or should be inferred. 
 
Recommendations in this report are based upon the soil and groundwater conditions 
encountered during our subsurface exploration.  If variations or unsuitable conditions are 
encountered during construction, Cornerstone must be contacted to provide supplemental 
recommendations, as needed. 
 
482 of 1252

--- page 483 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 27 
 
Lane Partners, LLC may have provided Cornerstone with plans, reports and other documents 
prepared by others.  Lane Partners, LLC understands that Cornerstone reviewed and relied on 
the information presented in these documents and cannot be responsible for their accuracy. 
 
Cornerstone prepared this report with the understanding that it is the responsibility of the owner 
or his representatives to see that the recommendations contained in this report are presented to 
other members of the design team and incorporated into the project plans and specifications, 
and that appropriate actions are taken to implement the geotechnical recommendations during 
construction. 
 
Conclusions and recommendations presented in this report are valid as of the present time for 
the development as currently planned.  Changes in the condition of the property or adjacent 
properties may occur with the passage of time, whether by natural processes or the acts of 
other persons.  In addition, changes in applicable or appropriate standards may occur through 
legislation or the broadening of knowledge.  Therefore, the conclusions and recommendations 
presented in this report may be invalidated, wholly or in part, by changes beyond Cornerstone’s 
control.  This report should be reviewed by Cornerstone after a period of three (3) years has 
elapsed from the date of this report.  In addition, if the current project design is changed, then 
Cornerstone must review the proposed changes and provide supplemental recommendations, 
as needed. 
 
An electronic transmission of this report may also have been issued.  While Cornerstone has 
taken precautions to produce a complete and secure electronic transmission, please check the 
electronic transmission against the hard copy version for conformity.   
 
Recommendations provided in this report are based on the assumption that Cornerstone will be 
retained to provide observation and testing services during construction to confirm that 
conditions are similar to that assumed for design, and to form an opinion as to whether the work 
has been performed in accordance with the project plans and specifications.  If we are not 
retained for these services, Cornerstone cannot assume any responsibility for any potential 
claims that may arise during or after construction as a result of misuse or misinterpretation of 
Cornerstone’s report by others.  Furthermore, Cornerstone will cease to be the Geotechnical-
Engineer-of-Record if we are not retained for these services. 
 
SECTION 11: REFERENCES 
 
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG), 2018, Interactive Liquefaction Hazard Map: 
http://quake.abag.ca.gov/liquefaction/ 
 
Boulanger, R.W. and Idriss, I.M., 2004, Evaluating the Potential for Liquefaction or Cyclic 
Failure of Silts and Clays, Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, College of 
Engineering, University of California at Davis. 
 
Boulanger, R.W. and Idriss, I.M., 2014, CPT and SPT Based Liquefaction Triggering 
Procedures, Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, 
University of California at Davis, Report No. UCD/GCM-14/01, April. 
483 of 1252

--- page 484 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 28 
 
California Building Code, 2019, Structural Engineering Design Provisions, Vol. 2. 
 
California Building Code, 2016, Structural Engineering Design Provisions, Vol. 2. 
 
California Department of Conservation Division of Mines and Geology, 1998, Maps of Known 
Active Fault Near-Source Zones in California and Adjacent Portions of Nevada, International 
Conference of Building Officials, February, 1998. 
 
California Division of Mines and Geology (2008), “Guidelines for Evaluating and Mitigating 
Seismic Hazards in California, Special Publication 117A, September. 
 
California Geological Survey, 2018, State of California Seismic Hazard Zones, San Mateo 7.5-
Minute Quadrangle, California: Seismic Hazard Zone Report 113. 
 
Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), 2009, FIRM City of San Mateo, 
California, Community Panel #060328. 
 
Idriss, I.M., and Boulanger, R.W., 2008, Soil Liquefaction During Earthquakes, Earthquake 
Engineering Research Institute, Oakland, CA, 237 p. 
 
Ishihara, K., 1985, Stability of Natural Deposits During Earthquakes: Proceedings Eleventh 
International Conference on Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, San Francisco. 
 
Ishihara, K. and Yoshimine, M., 1992, Evaluation of Settlements in Sand Deposits Following 
Liquefaction During Earthquakes, Soils and Foundations, 32 (1): 173-188. 
 
Lew, M. et al, 2010, Seismic Earth Pressures on Deep Building Basements, Proceedings, 
SEAOC Convention, Indian Wells, CA. 
 
Pradell, D., 1988, Procedure to Evaluate Earthquake-Induced Settlements in Dry Sandy Soils, 
Journal of Geotechnical and Environmental Engineering, April 1998, p. 364 – 368 and Errata 
October 1998 p. 1048. 
 
Ritter, J.R., and Dupre, W.R., 1972, Map Showing Areas of Potential Inundation by Tsunamis in 
the San Francisco Bay Region, California: San Francisco Bay Region Environment and 
Resources Planning Study, USGS Basic Data Contribution 52, Misc. Field Studies Map MF-480. 
 
Seed, H.B. and I.M. Idriss, 1971, A Simplified Procedure for Evaluation soil Liquefaction 
Potential: JSMFC, ASCE, Vol. 97, No. SM 9, pp. 1249 – 1274. 
 
Seed, H.B. and I.M. Idriss, 1982, Ground Motions and Soil Liquefaction During Earthquakes: 
Earthquake Engineering Research Institute. 
 
Seed, Raymond B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, Ann Marie, Wu, J., Pestana, J.M., 
Riemer, M.F., Sancio, R.B., Bray, Jonathan D., Kayen, Robert E., and Faris, A., 2003, Recent 
484 of 1252

--- page 485 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page 29 
 
Advances in Soil Liquefaction Engineering: A Unified and Consistent Framework., University of 
California, Earthquake Engineering Research Center Report 2003-06. 
 
Southern California Earthquake Center (SCEC), 1999, Recommended Procedures for 
Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating 
Liquefaction Hazards in California, March. 
 
Tokimatsu, K., and Seed, H. Bolton, 1987, Evaluation of Settlements in Sands due to 
Earthquake Shaking, ASCE Journal of Geotechnical Engineering, Vol. 113, August 1987, pp. 
861-878. 
 
USGS, 2011, Earthquake Ground Motion Parameters, Version 5.1.0, revision date February 10, 
2011 - A Computer Program for determining mapped ground motion parameters for use with 
IBC 2006 available at http://earthquake.usgs.gov/research/hazmaps/design/index.php. 
 
Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities, 2007, The Uniform Earthquake Rupture 
Forecast, Version 2 (UCRF 2), U.S.G.S. Open File Report 2007-1437. 
 
Yoshimine, M., Nishizaki, H., Amano, Kl, and Hosono, Y., 2006, Flow Deformation of Liquefied 
Sand Under Constant Shear Load and Its Application to Analysis of Flow Slide in Infinite Slope, 
Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Eng. 26, 253-264. 
 
Youd, T.L. and C.T. Garris, 1995, Liquefaction-Induced Ground-Surface Disruption:  Journal of 
Geotechnical Engineering, Vol. 121, No. 11, pp. 805 - 809. 
 
Youd, T.L. and Idriss, I.M., et al, 1997, Proceedings of the NCEER Workshop on Evaluation of 
Liquefaction Resistance of Soils: National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research, 
Technical Report NCEER - 97-0022, January 5, 6, 1996. 
 
Youd et al., 2001, “Liquefaction Resistance of Soils: Summary Report from the 1996 NCEER 
and 1998 NCEER/NSF Workshops on Evaluation of Liquefaction Resistance of Soils,” ASCE 
Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, Vo. 127, No. 10, October, 2001. 
 
Youd, T. Leslie, Hansen, Corbett M., and Bartlett, Steven F., 2002, Revised Multilinear 
Regression Equations for Prediction of Lateral Spread Displacement: ASCE Journal of 
Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, Vol. 128, December 2002, p 1007-1017.  
 
Youd, T.L. and Hoose, S.N., 1978, Historic Ground Failures in Northern California Triggered by 
Earthquakes, United States Geologic Survey Professional Paper 993. 
 
 
 
485 of 1252

--- page 486 ---
N
Project Number
Figure Number
Date
Drawn By
129-6-1
Figure 1
RRN
Vicinity Map
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA
December 2019
SITE
E 4th Ave
E 3rd Ave
S Ellsworth Ave
S B St
486 of 1252

--- page 487 ---
South Ellsworth Avenue
South B Street
East 4th Street
East 5th Street
Base by Google Earth, dated 8/9/2018
Project Number
Figure Number
Date
Drawn By
Figure 2
129-6-1
RRN
Site Plan
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA
December 2019
0
40
80
APPROXIMATE SCALE (FEET)
N
Approximate location of exploratory boring (EB)
Legend
EB-2
EB-3
EB-1
487 of 1252

--- page 488 ---
Base by California Geological Survey - 2010 Fault Activity Map of California (Jennings and Bryant, 2010)
SITE
Displacement during historic time (e.g. San Andreas fault 1906).
Includes areas of known fault creep.
Displacement during Holocene
time.
Fault offsets seafloor sediments
or strata of Holocene age.
Faults showing evidence of
displacement during late
Quaternary time.
Fault cuts strata of Late
Pleistocene age.
Undivided Quaternary faults -
most faults in this category show
evidence of displacement during
the last 1,600,000 years;
possible exceptions are faults
which displace rocks of
undifferentiated Pilo-Pleistocene
age.
Fault cuts strata of Quaternary
age.
Faults without recognized
Quaternary displacement or
showing evidence of no
displacement during Quaternary
time.  Not necessarily inactive.
Fault cuts strata of Pliocene or
older age.
0
5
10
APPROXIMATE SCALE (MILES)
N
Project Number
Figure Number
Date
Drawn By
Figure 3
RRN
Regional Fault Map
129-6-1
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA
December 2019
488 of 1252

--- page 489 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page A-1 
 
APPENDIX A: FIELD INVESTIGATION 
 
The field investigation consisted of a surface reconnaissance and a subsurface exploration 
program using truck-mounted, hollow-stem, auger drilling equipment.  Two 8-inch-diameter 
exploratory borings were drilled on November 6 and 21, 2019 to a depth of 60 feet.  The 
approximate locations of exploratory borings are shown on the Site Plan, Figure 2.  The soils 
encountered were continuously logged in the field by our representative and described in 
accordance with the Unified Soil Classification System (ASTM D2488).  Boring logs, as well as 
a key to the classification of the soil, are included as part of this appendix. 
 
Boring locations were approximated using existing site boundaries and other site features as 
references.  Boring elevations were based on interpolation of plan contours.  The locations and 
elevations of the borings should be considered accurate only to the degree implied by the 
method used. 
 
Representative soil samples were obtained from the borings at selected depths.  All samples 
were returned to our laboratory for evaluation and appropriate testing.  The standard penetration 
resistance blow counts were obtained by dropping a 140-pound hammer through a 30-inch free 
fall.  The 2-inch O.D. split-spoon sampler was driven 18 inches and the number of blows was 
recorded for each 6 inches of penetration (ASTM D1586).  2.5-inch I.D. samples were obtained 
using a Modified California Sampler driven into the soil with the 140-pound hammer previously 
described.  Unless otherwise indicated, the blows per foot recorded on the boring log represent 
the accumulated number of blows required to drive the last 12 inches.  The various samplers 
are denoted at the appropriate depth on the boring logs. 
 
Field tests included an evaluation of the unconfined compressive strength of the soil samples 
using a pocket penetrometer device.  The results of these tests are presented on the individual 
boring logs at the appropriate sample depths. 
 
Attached boring logs and related information depict subsurface conditions at the locations 
indicated and on the date designated on the logs.  Subsurface conditions at other locations may 
differ from conditions occurring at these boring locations.  The passage of time may result in 
altered subsurface conditions due to environmental changes.  In addition, any stratification lines 
on the logs represent the approximate boundary between soil types and the transition may be 
gradual. 
 
489 of 1252

--- page 490 ---
24.8
24.6
20.5
17.5
3.5
-1.5
GB
GB-2
GB
MC-4B
MC-5B
MC-6B
MC-7B
SPT
MC-9B
115
128
111
125
118
50
5"
66
50
6"
73
51
50
6"
8 inches asphalt concrete over 3 inches
aggregate base
Sandy Lean Clay (CL) [Fill]
dry, reddish brown, fine to medium sand, low
plasticity
Clayey Sand with Gravel (SC)
very dense, moist, brown to reddish brown,
fine to coarse sand, fine to coarse
subrounded to subangular gravel
Poorly Graded Sand with Clay and Gravel
(SP-SC)
dense, moist, brown, fine to coarse sand, fine
to coarse subrounded to angular gravel
becomes very dense
becomes dense
Sandy Lean Clay with Gravel (CL)
very stiff to hard, moist, brown, fine to coarse
sand, fine to coarse subrounded to
subangular gravel, low plasticity
7
11
5
8
8
16
NOTES
B Street
LOGGED BY
BCG
DRILLING METHOD
Mobile B-61, 8 inch Hollow-Stem Auger
DRILLING CONTRACTOR
Exploration Geoservices, Inc.
DATE STARTED
11/21/19
DATE COMPLETED
11/21/19
BORING DEPTH
60 ft.
GROUND ELEVATION
25.5 FT +/-
LATITUDE
37.564387°
LONGITUDE
-122.321193°
AT TIME OF DRILLING
30 ft.
AT END OF DRILLING
32 ft.
GROUNDWATER LEVELS:
UNCONFINED COMPRESSION
SYMBOL
Continued Next Page
-2.5
25.5
ELEVATION (ft)
PROJECT NAME
222 East 4th Avenue
PROJECT NUMBER
129-6-1
PROJECT LOCATION
San Mateo, CA
BORING NUMBER EB-1
PAGE  1  OF  2
This log is a part of a report by Cornerstone Earth Group, and should not be used as
a stand-alone document. This description applies only to the location of the
exploration at the time of drilling. Subsurface conditions may differ at other locations
and may change at this location with time. The description presented is a
simplification of actual conditions encountered. Transitions between soil types may be
gradual.
UNDRAINED SHEAR STRENGTH,
ksf
SAMPLES
TYPE AND NUMBER
DEPTH (ft)
0
5
10
15
20
25
DRY UNIT WEIGHT
PCF
TORVANE
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
HAND PENETROMETER
N-Value (uncorrected)
blows per foot
DESCRIPTION
PERCENT PASSING
No. 200 SIEVE
PLASTICITY INDEX
NATURAL MOISTURE
CONTENT, %
CORNERSTONE EARTH GROUP2 - CORNERSTONE 0812.GDT - 12/13/19 07:55 - P:\DRAFTING\GINT FILES\129-6-1 222 EAST 4TH AVENUE.GPJ
>4.5
UNCONSOLIDATED-UNDRAINED
TRIAXIAL
490 of 1252

--- page 491 ---
-5.5
-11.5
-21.5
-26.5
-34.5
MC-10B
MC-11B
MC-12B
MC-13B
SPT-14
SPT-15
SPT-16
108
129
112
105
75
50
6"
52
50
6"
54
74
46
Lean Clay with Sand (CL)
very stiff, moist, gray with brown mottles, fine
to medium sand, trace gravel, low to
moderate plasticity
Sandy Lean Clay with Gravel (CL)
hard, moist, brown, fine to coarse sand, fine
to coarse subangular to angular gravel, low to
moderate plasticity
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
very stiff, moist, brown and gray mottled, fine
to medium sand, some gravel, low plasticity
Sandy Lean Clay with Gravel (CL)
very stiff, moist, brown, fine to coarse sand,
fine to coarse subangular to angular gravel,
low plasticity
Clayey Sand with Gravel (SC)
very dense, moist, brown, fine to coarse
sand, fine to coarse subangular to angular
gravel
becomes dense
Bottom of Boring at 60.0 feet.
21
16
19
23
19
15
14
UNCONFINED COMPRESSION
SYMBOL
-2.5
ELEVATION (ft)
PROJECT NAME
222 East 4th Avenue
PROJECT NUMBER
129-6-1
PROJECT LOCATION
San Mateo, CA
BORING NUMBER EB-1
PAGE  2  OF  2
This log is a part of a report by Cornerstone Earth Group, and should not be used as
a stand-alone document. This description applies only to the location of the
exploration at the time of drilling. Subsurface conditions may differ at other locations
and may change at this location with time. The description presented is a
simplification of actual conditions encountered. Transitions between soil types may be
gradual.
UNDRAINED SHEAR STRENGTH,
ksf
SAMPLES
TYPE AND NUMBER
DEPTH (ft)
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
DRY UNIT WEIGHT
PCF
TORVANE
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
HAND PENETROMETER
N-Value (uncorrected)
blows per foot
DESCRIPTION
PERCENT PASSING
No. 200 SIEVE
PLASTICITY INDEX
NATURAL MOISTURE
CONTENT, %
CORNERSTONE EARTH GROUP2 - CORNERSTONE 0812.GDT - 12/13/19 07:55 - P:\DRAFTING\GINT FILES\129-6-1 222 EAST 4TH AVENUE.GPJ
>4.5
UNCONSOLIDATED-UNDRAINED
TRIAXIAL
491 of 1252

--- page 492 ---
28.5
27.8
24.0
11.5
6.5
3.0
GB-G1
MC-1B
MC-2B
MC-3B
SPT-4
MC-5B
MC-6A
128
124
125
134
113
44
47
69
36
50
5"
44
6 inches asphalt concrete over 8 inches
aggregate base
Clayey Sand (SC) [Fill]
moist, brown to reddish brown, fine to
medium sand, some fine subangular to
subrounded gravel
Clayey Sand with Gravel (SC)
medium dense, moist, brown to reddish
brown, fine to coarse sand, fine to coarse
subrounded to subangular gravel
becomes dense
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
hard, moist, brown, fine to coarse sand, some
fine gravel, low to moderate plasticity
Clayey Sand with Gravel (SC)
very dense, moist, brown, fine to coarse
sand, fine to coarse subangular to angular
gravel
17
11
12
9
11
16
12
19
NOTES
Ellsworth Avenue
LOGGED BY
BCG
DRILLING METHOD
Mobile B-56, 8 inch Hollow-Stem Auger
DRILLING CONTRACTOR
Exploration Geoservices, Inc.
DATE STARTED
11/6/19
DATE COMPLETED
11/6/19
BORING DEPTH
60 ft.
GROUND ELEVATION
29 FT +/-
LATITUDE
37.564053°
LONGITUDE
-122.322136°
AT TIME OF DRILLING
29 ft.
AT END OF DRILLING
31 ft.
GROUNDWATER LEVELS:
UNCONFINED COMPRESSION
SYMBOL
Continued Next Page
1.0
29.0
ELEVATION (ft)
PROJECT NAME
222 East 4th Avenue
PROJECT NUMBER
129-6-1
PROJECT LOCATION
San Mateo, CA
BORING NUMBER EB-2
PAGE  1  OF  2
This log is a part of a report by Cornerstone Earth Group, and should not be used as
a stand-alone document. This description applies only to the location of the
exploration at the time of drilling. Subsurface conditions may differ at other locations
and may change at this location with time. The description presented is a
simplification of actual conditions encountered. Transitions between soil types may be
gradual.
UNDRAINED SHEAR STRENGTH,
ksf
SAMPLES
TYPE AND NUMBER
DEPTH (ft)
0
5
10
15
20
25
DRY UNIT WEIGHT
PCF
TORVANE
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
HAND PENETROMETER
N-Value (uncorrected)
blows per foot
DESCRIPTION
PERCENT PASSING
No. 200 SIEVE
PLASTICITY INDEX
NATURAL MOISTURE
CONTENT, %
CORNERSTONE EARTH GROUP2 - CORNERSTONE 0812.GDT - 12/13/19 07:55 - P:\DRAFTING\GINT FILES\129-6-1 222 EAST 4TH AVENUE.GPJ
>4.5
UNCONSOLIDATED-UNDRAINED
TRIAXIAL
492 of 1252

--- page 493 ---
-3.0
-8.0
-13.0
-18.0
-22.0
-31.0
SPT-7
MC-8B
MC-9B
MC-10
SPT-11
SPT-12
SPT-13
115
120
122
36
50
6"
72
50
5"
50
6"
46
65
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
very stiff, moist, reddish brown, fine to
medium sand, fine subangular gravel, low to
moderate plasticity
Liquid Limit = 32, Plastic Limit = 15
Lean Clay with Sand (CL)
hard, moist, reddish brown, fine to medium
sand, some fine subangular gravel, moderate
plasticity
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
hard, moist, reddish brown, fine to medium
sand, some fine subangular gravel, low
plasticity
Clayey Sand with Gravel (SC)
very dense, moist to wet, orange-brown, fine
to coarse sand, fine to coarse subangular to
angular gravel
Poorly Graded Sand with Clay and Gravel
(SP-SC)
very dense, moist, brown, fine to coarse
sand, fine to coarse subrounded to angular
gravel
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
very stiff, moist, brown, fine to medium sand,
some subangular gravel, low to moderate
plasticity
becomes stiff, increased sand content
Bottom of Boring at 60.0 feet.
12
16
17
20
17
15
10
19
20
UNCONFINED COMPRESSION
SYMBOL
1.0
ELEVATION (ft)
PROJECT NAME
222 East 4th Avenue
PROJECT NUMBER
129-6-1
PROJECT LOCATION
San Mateo, CA
BORING NUMBER EB-2
PAGE  2  OF  2
This log is a part of a report by Cornerstone Earth Group, and should not be used as
a stand-alone document. This description applies only to the location of the
exploration at the time of drilling. Subsurface conditions may differ at other locations
and may change at this location with time. The description presented is a
simplification of actual conditions encountered. Transitions between soil types may be
gradual.
UNDRAINED SHEAR STRENGTH,
ksf
SAMPLES
TYPE AND NUMBER
DEPTH (ft)
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
DRY UNIT WEIGHT
PCF
TORVANE
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
HAND PENETROMETER
N-Value (uncorrected)
blows per foot
DESCRIPTION
PERCENT PASSING
No. 200 SIEVE
PLASTICITY INDEX
NATURAL MOISTURE
CONTENT, %
CORNERSTONE EARTH GROUP2 - CORNERSTONE 0812.GDT - 12/13/19 07:55 - P:\DRAFTING\GINT FILES\129-6-1 222 EAST 4TH AVENUE.GPJ
>4.5
>4.5
UNCONSOLIDATED-UNDRAINED
TRIAXIAL
493 of 1252

--- page 494 ---
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
129-6-1 
Page B-1 
 
APPENDIX B: LABORATORY TEST PROGRAM 
 
The laboratory testing program was performed to evaluate the physical and mechanical 
properties of the soils retrieved from the site to aid in verifying soil classification. 
 
Moisture Content:  The natural water content was determined (ASTM D2216) on 27 samples 
of the materials recovered from the borings.  These water contents are recorded on the boring 
logs at the appropriate sample depths. 
 
Dry Densities:  In place dry density determinations (ASTM D2937) were performed on 17 
samples to measure the unit weight of the subsurface soils.  Results of these tests are shown 
on the boring logs at the appropriate sample depths. 
 
Washed Sieve Analyses:  The percent soil fraction passing the No. 200 sieve (ASTM D1140) 
was determined on two samples of the subsurface soils to aid in the classification of these soils.  
Results of these tests are shown on the boring logs at the appropriate sample depths. 
 
Plasticity Index:  One Plasticity Index determination (ASTM D4318) was performed on a 
sample of the subsurface soil to measure the range of water contents over which this material 
exhibits plasticity.  The Plasticity Index was used to classify the soil in accordance with the 
Unified Soil Classification System and to evaluate the soil expansion potential.  Results of this 
test are shown on the boring log at the appropriate sample depth. 
 
Undrained-Unconsolidated Triaxial Shear Strength: The undrained shear strength was 
determined on two relatively undisturbed samples by unconsolidated-undrained triaxial shear 
strength testing (ASTM D2850).  The results of this test are included as part of this appendix.   
 
Soil Corrosion:  One soluble sulfate determination (ASTM D4327), one resistivity test (ASTM 
G57), one chloride determination (ASTM D4327), and one pH determination (ASTM G51) were 
performed on a sample of the subsurface soil.  Results of these tests are attached in this 
appendix.
 
494 of 1252

--- page 495 ---
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA
Project Number
Figure Number
Date
Drawn By
129-6-1
Figure B1
November 2019
FLL
Plasticity Index Testing Summary
60
0
10
20
30
40
50
0
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
CL ML
-
OL
ML
or
OH
MH
or
CH
CL
Plasticity Index (%)
Liquid Limit (%)
Group Name (
-
D2487)
USCS
ASTM
Boring No.
Symbol
Depth
(ft)
Natural
Water
Content
(%)
Liquid
Limit
(%)
Plastic
Limit
(%)
Plasticity
Index
Passing
No. 200
(%)
“A” line
Plasticity Index (
D4318) Testing Summary
ASTM
Sandy Lean Clay (CL)
17
EB-2
32
15
16
28.5
—
495 of 1252

--- page 496 ---
Cooper Testing Labs, Inc.
937 Commercial Street
Palo Alto, CA 94303
1
2
3
4
Moisture %
21.1
19.2
Dry Den,pcf
108.3
111.9
Void Ratio
0.585
0.534
Saturation %
99.2
99.0
Height in
4.99
4.98
Diameter in
2.42
2.41
Cell psi
18.1
20.8
Strain %
15.00
15.00
Deviator, ksf
7.899
5.253
Rate %/min
1.00
1.00
in/min
0.050
0.050
Job No.:
Client:
Project:
Boring:
EB-1
EB-1
Sample:
10B
12B
Depth ft:
29.5
39.0
Sample #
1
2
3
4
Note: Strengths are picked at the peak deviator stress or 15% strain 
which ever occurs first per ASTM D2850.
Remarks:  
Sample Data
Visual Soil Description
Yellowish Brown Sandy CLAY w/ Gravel
Yellowish Brown Sandy CLAY
640-1369
Cornerstone Earth Group
129-6-1
0.0
3.0
6.0
0.0
3.0
6.0
9.0
12.0
Shear Stress, ksf
Total Normal Stress, ksf
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
8.00
9.00
0.0
6.0
12.0
18.0
24.0
Deviator Stress, ksf
Strain, %
Stress-Strain Curves
Sample 1
Sample 2
Sample 3
Sample 4
Unconsolidated-Undrained Triaxial Test
ASTM D2850
496 of 1252

--- page 497 ---
Moisture
pH
Temp.
Chloride
Sulfate
Content
at Testing
Dry Wt.
Dry Wt.
%
C°
As Received
Saturated
mg/kg
mg/kg
ASTM D2216
ASTM G51
G57
ASTM G57
ASTM D4327
ASTM D4327
EB‐1
9A
25.0
16.4
6.7
19.7
15,139
3,304
5
10
Corrositivity Tests Summary
129‐6‐1
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA
Brown Sandy Lean Clay 
(CL)
Sample I.D.
Resistivity (Ohm‐cm)
Soil Visual Description
Boring
Sample No.
Depth, ft.
Job Number
Job Name
Location
Corrected to 15.5 C°
Date Tested
Tested By
11/26/2019
PWG
497 of 1252

--- page 498 ---
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment 
222 East 4th Avenue Project  
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
Prepared For: 
David J. Powers & Associates, Inc. 
1736 Franklin Street, Suite 200 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
 
Prepared By: 
 
 
 
 
 
September 2022 
498 of 1252

--- page 499 ---
Draeger Mixed Use Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
i 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
CONTENTS 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Project Location ................................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Project Description ............................................................................................................................................. 1 
2.0 
Greenhouse Gas emissions .............................................................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
Greenhouse Gas Setting ................................................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1 
Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ...................................................................................... 5 
2.2 
Regulatory Framework ...................................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.1 
State ......................................................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2 
Local ......................................................................................................................................................... 8 
2.3 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Impact Assessment ..................................................................................... 9 
2.3.1 
Thresholds of Significance .............................................................................................................. 9 
2.3.2 
Methodology .................................................................................................................................... 11 
2.3.3 
Impact Analysis ................................................................................................................................. 11 
3.0 
REFERENCES ........................................................................................................................................................................ 21 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 3-1. Greenhouse Gases .......................................................................................................................................................... 5 
Table 3-2. Construction-Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions .......................................................................................... 11 
Table 3-3. Operational-Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions ............................................................................................ 13 
 
 
LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 
Attachment A – CalEEMod Output File for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS  
Term 
Description 
°F 
Degrees Fahrenheit  
μg/m3 
Micrograms per cubic meter; ppm = parts per million 
AB 
Assembly Bill  
ABAG 
Association of Bay Area Governments 
AEP 
Association of Environmental Planners 
AQMD 
Air Quality Management District 
CalEEMod 
California Emissions Estimator Model  
CAP 
Climate Action Plan 
CAPCOA 
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association  
CARB 
California Air Resources Board  
499 of 1252

--- page 500 ---
Draeger Mixed Use Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
ii 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS  
CCR 
California Code of Regulations 
CEQA 
California Environmental Quality Act  
CH4 
Methane  
BAAQMD 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
CEQA 
California Environmental Quality Act 
City 
City of San Mateo 
CO2 
Carbon dioxide  
CO2e 
Carbon dioxide equivalent 
County 
San Mateo County 
EO 
Executive Order  
GHG 
Greenhouse gas  
GWP 
Global warming potential 
IPCC 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
ITE 
Institute of Transportation Engineers’ 
MTCO2e 
Metric Tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalents 
N2O 
Nitrous oxide  
Project 
222 East 4th Avenue Project  
RTP 
Regional Transportation Plan 
SB 
Senate Bill  
SCS 
Sustainable Communities Strategy 
SFBAAB 
San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin 
SR 
State Route 
TDM 
Transportation Demand Management 
USEPA 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  
VMT 
Vehicle Miles Traveled  
500 of 1252

--- page 501 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
1 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
This report documents the results of a Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Assessment completed for the 
222 East 4th Avenue Project (Project), located on 222 East 4th Avenue in the City of San Mateo (City), 
California. The Project includes the demotion of the existing building on site, an approximate 60,965 
square foot supermarket, and the construction of a new five-story 155,052 square foot mixed-use 
office/residential/commercial building and associated features in the City of San Mateo (City), California. 
This assessment is based on the methodology recommended by the City of San Mateo and the Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) for project-level review and was prepared with consideration 
of the emissions reduction actions proposed by the Project. The purpose of this assessment is to estimate 
Project-generated GHG emissions attributable to the Project and to determine the level of impact the 
Project would have on the environment.  
1.1 
Project Location  
The approximate 1.1-acre Project Site (APNs 034-176-050, 034-176-070, 034-176-080, 034-176-090) is 
bounded by East 4th Avenue to the northwest, South B Street to the northeast, East 5th Avenue to the 
southeast, and South Ellsworth Avenue to the southwest. The Project Site is designated as Downtown 
Retail Core under the City’s Downtown Area Plan and is zoned CBD/R (Central Business 
District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use). The Downtown Area Plan generally describes the 
Downtown Retail Core designation as a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster 
retail vitality and downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment. The San Mateo Municipal Code states 
that the purpose of the CBD District is to encourage the development and re-use of existing downtown 
structures as a center for retail, cultural, entertainment, and community services uses. Pedestrian activity 
should be strongly encouraged at the ground floor level, while upper floor office and residential uses 
should be encouraged to promote active daytime and nighttime use of the downtown area. The 
Residential Overlay District requires that residential development on properties zoned CBD/R be subject 
to /R density standards.  
1.2 
Project Description  
The Project proposes the demotion of the existing building on site, an approximate 60,965 square foot 
supermarket, and the construction of a new five-story 155,052 square foot mixed-use 
office/residential/commercial building. The Proposed Project includes 104,722 square-feet of office space, 
17,658 square-feet of retail space (supermarket), 8,971 square-feet of residential space in the form of 
single bedroom apartments and studios. The retail space would be located on the ground floor of the 
proposed building, the office space would be spread throughout the first four floors, and the residential 
space would be split between the ground floor (i.e. residential lobby/elevator) and the fifth floor living 
areas. The residential space would consist of a total of 10 units made up of eight one-bedroom units and 
two studio units. The ground floor would also include 12,392 square-feet of covered parking area, and 
approximately 9,309 square-feet of shared use space (i.e., lobbies, utility rooms, etc.) split between the 
ground floor and fifth floor. The proposed building would include two outdoor terraces on the third level, 
one terrace on the fourth level, and a roof deck totaling 14,821 square-feet. The roof deck would include 
1,724 square-feet of common usable open space for the proposed residential tenants. The Project would 
501 of 1252

--- page 502 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
2 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
also include an approximate 2,070 square-foot community open space and an approximate 1,450 square-
foot outdoor dining space both located at the western corner of the Project Site, at the intersection of 
East 4th Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue. The community open space and outdoor dining space would 
include landscaping and outdoor seating.  
Site Access and Parking 
Vehicle access to the Project Site would primarily be provided via a parking garage entrance on East 5th 
Avenue. From this garage entrance, vehicles would have access to covered parking on the ground floor 
and the two basement levels. The Project would include approximately 239 total physical parking spaces 
as well as approximately 50-60 valet parking spaces. Out of the 239 total parking spaces, approximately 
36 spaces would include electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. The Project would also include a truck 
loading area along South B Street. The Project would also retain some existing uncovered surface parking 
spaces along East 4th Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue. 
The Project would also include bicycle storage rooms with capacity for 21 bikes and additional bike racks 
for 17 bikes. Pedestrian access to the ground floor of the proposed building would be provided via several 
entrances along East 4th Avenue, South B Street, and South Ellsworth Avenue.  
Landscaping and Trees 
There is one existing tree on-site and 38 street trees located around the perimeter of the Project Site. The 
Project would remove all 39 existing trees, none of which are considered Heritage Trees under the City’s 
Protected Trees Ordinance (Municipal Code Chapter 13.40). The Project would plant approximately 37 
new trees, resulting in a net decrease of two trees on-site. Landscaping would be provided around the 
perimeter of the proposed building, in the community open space, along the third-floor terrace, and 
along portions of the perimeter of the rooftop.  
Off-Site Improvements 
Off-site improvements include the following:  
 
Remove and replace curb, gutter, sidewalk, curb extensions, and ADA curb ramps along all 
frontages. 
 
Curb to curb pavement restoration (grind & overlay) and striping along all frontages including 
intersections. 
 
Street lighting along all frontages. 
 
Bike lane improvement along B street. 
 
Landscaping including, tree wells, street trees and Green Infrastructure along frontages. 
 
New 18” Storm Drain line installation along B, Ellsworth and portion of 4th and 5th Avenue. 
 
Utility connection 
 
Possible signal improvement 
Green Building Measures  
The Project would be designed for energy efficiency and water conservation in accordance with the 2019 
California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen). This includes mandatory installation of electric 
502 of 1252

--- page 503 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
3 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
vehicle charging stations, low-flow plumbing fixtures, and low-water use landscaping. In addition, 
photovoltaic panels would be installed on the rooftop. The Project would conform to the City’s Reach 
Code (Municipal Code Chapter 23.24), which requires new mixed-use buildings to be all-electric (no 
natural gas infrastructure). 
Construction  
It is anticipated that the Project would be constructed over an approximate 20-month period. It is 
estimated that construction of the Project would require the export of approximately 25,828 cubic yards 
of soil material. Construction equipment would be staged on the Project Site, as necessary. Construction 
hours in the City of San Mateo are between 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM Monday through Friday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 
PM on Saturdays, and 12:00 PM to 4:00 PM on Sundays and holidays.  
 
503 of 1252

--- page 504 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
4 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
2.0 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
2.1 
Greenhouse Gas Setting 
Certain gases in the earth’s atmosphere, classified as GHGs, play a critical role in determining the earth’s 
surface temperature. Solar radiation enters the earth’s atmosphere from space. A portion of the radiation 
is absorbed by the earth’s surface and a smaller portion of this radiation is reflected back toward space. 
This absorbed radiation is then emitted from the earth as low-frequency infrared radiation. The 
frequencies at which bodies emit radiation are proportional to temperature. Because the earth has a much 
lower temperature than the sun, it emits lower-frequency radiation. Most solar radiation passes through 
GHGs; however, infrared radiation is absorbed by these gases. As a result, radiation that otherwise would 
have escaped back into space is instead trapped, resulting in a warming of the atmosphere. This 
phenomenon, known as the greenhouse effect, is responsible for maintaining a habitable climate on 
earth. Without the greenhouse effect, the earth would not be able to support life as we know it. 
Prominent GHGs contributing to the greenhouse effect are CO2, methane (CH4), and N2O. Fluorinated 
gases also make up a small fraction of the GHGs that contribute to climate change. Fluorinated gases 
include chlorofluorocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, and nitrogen 
trifluoride; however, it is noted that these gases are not associated with typical land use development. 
Human-caused emissions of these GHGs in excess of natural ambient concentrations are believed to be 
responsible for intensifying the greenhouse effect and leading to a trend of unnatural warming of the 
earth’s climate, known as global climate change or global warming. It is “extremely likely” that more than 
half of the observed increase in global average surface temperature from 1951 to 2010 was caused by the 
anthropogenic increase in GHG concentrations and other anthropogenic factors together 
(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [IPCC] 2014). 
Table 3-1 describes the primary GHGs attributed to global climate change, including their physical 
properties, primary sources, and contributions to the greenhouse effect. 
Each GHG differs in its ability to absorb heat in the atmosphere based on the lifetime, or persistence, of 
the gas molecule in the atmosphere. CH4 traps over 25 times more heat per molecule than CO2, and N2O 
absorbs 298 times more heat per molecule than CO2 (IPCC 2014). Often, estimates of GHG emissions are 
presented in carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), which weight each gas by its global warming potential. 
Expressing GHG emissions in CO2e takes the contribution of all GHG emissions to the greenhouse effect 
and converts them to a single unit equivalent to the effect that would occur if only CO2 were being 
emitted. 
Climate change is a global problem. GHGs are global pollutants, unlike criteria air pollutants and TACs, 
which are pollutants of regional and local concern. Whereas pollutants with localized air quality effects 
have relatively short atmospheric lifetimes (about one day), GHGs have long atmospheric lifetimes (one to 
several thousand years). GHGs persist in the atmosphere for long enough time periods to be dispersed 
around the globe. Although the exact lifetime of any particular GHG molecule is dependent on multiple 
variables and cannot be pinpointed, it is understood that more CO2 is emitted into the atmosphere than is 
sequestered by ocean uptake, vegetation, or other forms. Of the total annual human-caused CO2 
504 of 1252

--- page 505 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
5 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
emissions, approximately 55 percent is sequestered through ocean and land uptakes every year, averaged 
over the last 50 years, whereas the remaining 45 percent of human-caused CO2 emissions remains stored 
in the atmosphere (IPCC 2013). 
Table 3-1. Greenhouse Gases 
Greenhouse Gas 
Description 
CO2 
Carbon dioxide is a colorless, odorless gas. CO2 is emitted in a number of ways, both 
naturally and through human activities. The largest source of CO2 emissions globally is 
the combustion of fossil fuels such as coal, oil, and gas in power plants, automobiles, 
industrial facilities, and other sources. A number of specialized industrial production 
processes and product uses such as mineral production, metal production, and the use of 
petroleum-based products can also lead to CO2 emissions. The atmospheric lifetime of 
CO2 is variable because it is so readily exchanged in the atmosphere.1  
CH4 
Methane is a colorless, odorless gas and is the major component of natural gas, about 87 
percent by volume. It is also formed and released to the atmosphere by biological 
processes occurring in anaerobic environments. Methane is emitted from a variety of 
both human-related and natural sources. Human-related sources include fossil fuel 
production, animal husbandry (intestinal fermentation in livestock and manure 
management), rice cultivation, biomass burning, and waste management. These activities 
release significant quantities of CH4 to the atmosphere. Natural sources of CH4 include 
wetlands, gas hydrates, permafrost, termites, oceans, freshwater bodies, non-wetland 
soils, and other sources such as wildfires. The atmospheric lifetime of CH4 is about12 
years.2  
N2O 
Nitrous oxide is a clear, colorless gas with a slightly sweet odor. Nitrous oxide is produced 
by both natural and human-related sources. Primary human-related sources of N2O are 
agricultural soil management, animal manure management, sewage treatment, mobile 
and stationary combustion of fossil fuels, adipic acid production, and nitric acid 
production. N2O is also produced naturally from a wide variety of biological sources in 
soil and water, particularly microbial action in wet tropical forests. The atmospheric 
lifetime of N2O is approximately 120 years.3  
Sources: 1USEPA 2016a, 2 USEPA 2016b, 3 USEPA 2016c 
The quantity of GHGs that it takes to ultimately result in climate change is not precisely known; it is 
sufficient to say the quantity is enormous, and no single project alone would measurably contribute to a 
noticeable incremental change in the global average temperature or to global, local, or microclimates. 
From the standpoint of CEQA, GHG impacts to global climate change are inherently cumulative. 
2.1.1 
Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
In 2021, CARB released the 2021 edition of the California GHG inventory covering calendar year 2019 
emissions. In 2019, California emitted 418.2 million gross metric tons of CO2e including from imported 
electricity. Combustion of fossil fuel in the transportation sector was the single largest source of 
California’s GHG emissions in 2019, accounting for approximately 40 percent of total GHG emissions in 
the State. When emissions from extracting, refining and moving transportation fuels in California are 
included, transportation is responsible for over 50 percent of statewide emissions in 2019. Continuing the 
downward trend from 2018, transportation emissions decreased 3.5 million metric tons of CO2e in 2019, 
505 of 1252

--- page 506 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
6 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
only being outpaced by electricity, which reduced emissions by 4.3 million metric tons of CO2e in 2019. 
Emissions from the electricity sector account for 14 percent of the inventory and have shown a substantial 
decrease in 2019 due to increases in renewables.  California’s industrial sector accounts for the second 
largest source of the State’s GHG emissions in 2019, accounting for 21 percent (CARB 2021). 
2.2 
Regulatory Framework 
2.2.1 
State 
2.2.1.1 
Executive Orders S-3-05 and B-30-15 
Executive Order (EO) S-3-05, signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger in 2005, proclaims that 
California is vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. It declares that increased temperatures could 
reduce the Sierra Nevada snowpack, further exacerbate California’s air quality problems, and potentially 
cause a rise in sea levels. To combat those concerns, the EO established total GHG emission targets for the 
State. Specifically, emissions are to be reduced to the 2000 level by 2010, the 1990 level by 2020, and to 
80 percent below the 1990 level by 2050. 
On April 20, 2015 Governor Brown signed EO B-30-15 to establish a California GHG reduction target of 40 
percent below 1990 levels by 2030. The Governor’s executive order aligns California’s GHG reduction 
targets with those of leading international governments such as the European Union, which adopted the 
same target in October 2014. California’s new emission reduction target of 40 percent below 1990 levels 
by 2030 will make it possible to reach the ultimate goal of reducing emissions 80 percent below 1990 
levels by 2050. This is in line with the scientifically established levels needed in the U.S. to limit global 
warming below 2 degrees Celsius, the warming threshold at which major climate disruptions are 
projected, such as super droughts and rising sea levels. 
2.2.1.2 
Assembly Bill 32 Climate Change Scoping Plan and Updates 
In 2006, the California legislature passed Assembly Bill (AB) 32 (Health and Safety Code § 38500 et seq., or 
AB 32), also known as the Global Warming Solutions Act. AB 32 required CARB to design and implement 
feasible and cost-effective emission limits, regulations, and other measures, such that statewide GHG 
emissions are reduced to 1990 levels by 2020 (representing a 25 percent reduction in emissions). Pursuant 
to AB 32, CARB adopted a Scoping Plan in December 2008, which outlined measures to meet the 2020 
GHG reduction goals. California exceeded the target of reducing GHG emissions to 1990 levels by the year 
2017. 
The Scoping Plan is required by AB 32 to be updated at least every five years. The latest update, the 2017 
Scoping Plan Update, addresses the 2030 target established by Senate Bill (SB) 32 as discussed below and 
establishes a proposed framework of action for California to meet a 40 percent reduction in GHG 
emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The key programs that the Scoping Plan Update builds on 
include increasing the use of renewable energy in the State, the Cap-and-Trade Regulation, the Low 
Carbon Fuel Standard, and reduction of methane emissions from agricultural and other wastes.  
506 of 1252

--- page 507 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
7 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
2.2.1.3 
Senate Bill 32 and Assembly Bill 197 of 2016 
In August 2016, Governor Brown signed SB 32 and AB 197, which serve to extend California’s GHG 
reduction programs beyond 2020. SB 32 amended the Health and Safety Code to include § 38566, which 
contains language to authorize CARB to achieve a statewide GHG emission reduction of at least 40 
percent below 1990 levels by no later than December 31, 2030. SB 32 codified the targets established by 
EO B-30-15 for 2030, which set the next interim step in the State’s continuing efforts to pursue the long-
term target expressed in EOs S-3-05 and B-30-15 of 80 percent below 1990 emissions levels by 2050. 
2.2.1.4 
Senate Bill 100 of 2018 
In 2018, SB 100 was signed by Governor Brown, codifying a goal of 60 percent renewable procurement by 
2030 and 100 percent by 2045 Renewables Portfolio Standard. 
2.2.1.5 
2019 Building Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential 
Buildings  
The Building and Efficiency Standards (Energy Standards) were first adopted and put into effect in 1978 
and have been updated periodically in the intervening years. These standards are a unique California asset 
that have placed the State on the forefront of energy efficiency, sustainability, energy independence and 
climate change issues. The 2019 Building Energy Efficiency Standards improve upon the 2016 Energy 
Standards for new construction of, and additions and alterations to, residential and nonresidential 
buildings. The 2019 update to the Building Energy Efficiency Standards focuses on several key areas to 
improve the energy efficiency of newly constructed buildings and additions and alterations to existing 
buildings. The 2019 standards are a major step toward meeting Zero Net Energy. The most significant 
efficiency improvement to the residential Standards include the introduction of photovoltaic into the 
perspective package, improvements for attics, walls, water heating and lighting. Buildings permitted on or 
after January 1, 2020, must comply with the 2019 Standards.  
In 2008, the California Building Standards Commission adopted the nation’s first green building standards. 
The California Green Building Standards Code (Part 11 of Title 24) is commonly referred to as CalGreen 
Building Standard (CalGreen) and establishes voluntary and mandatory standards pertaining to the 
planning and design of sustainable site development, energy efficiency, water conservation, material 
conservation, and interior air quality. Like Part 6 of Title 24, the CalGreen standards are periodically 
updated, with increasing energy savings and efficiencies associated with each code update. CalGreen 
contains voluntary "Tier 1" and "Tier 2" standards that are not mandatory statewide but could be required 
by a City or County. These are 'reach' standards that can be adopted by local jurisdictions and may be 
incorporated as mandatory standards in future code cycles. 
507 of 1252

--- page 508 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
8 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
2.2.2 
Local 
2.2.2.1 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District  
To provide guidance to local lead agencies on determining significance for GHG emissions in CEQA 
documents, BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines include guidance on assessing GHGs and climate change impacts 
as required under CEQA Section 15183.5(b). On April 20, 2022, the Draft Justification Report: CEQA 
Thresholds for Evaluating the Significance of Climate Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans (2022) was 
adopted. This document presents a project-level operational threshold of significance for GHG emissions 
based on compliance with a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy or adherence to a suite of BAAQMD 
performance standards for land uses projects directly related to building design, transportation and 
consistency with the CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b).  
2.2.2.2 
The City of San Mateo (City) Climate Action Plan 
The City adopted an updated CAP in April 2020, which updates and consolidated the various City’s GHG 
reduction efforts based on the vision of San Mateo residents, businesses, and local government. The CAP 
provides the framework for San Mateo to reduce its community-wide GHG emissions in a manner 
consistent with state reduction targets and goals for 2030 and 2050. The CAP was prepared consistent 
with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines for Plans for the Reduction of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CCR 15183.5). This allows the 2020 CAP to support (and possibly streamline) 
environmental review of GHG emissions related to future development projects within the City. The 2020 
CAP is a direct update to the 2015 CAP. The 2020 CAP analyzes San Mateo’s progress to date in meeting 
its GHG reduction targets and contains new information to achieve more significant and longer-term GHG 
reductions. 
A CAP is a comprehensive strategy for a community to reduce emissions of GHGs, which, according to 
scientific consensus, are primarily responsible for causing climate change. The CAP identifies a strategy, 
reduction measures, and implementation actions the City will use to achieve targets consistent with state 
recommendations of 4.3 metric tons of CO2e (MTCO2e) per person by 2030 and 1.2 MTCO2e per person 
by 2050. The City CAP includes five key pieces: 
1. An inventory of the annual GHG emissions attributable to San Mateo based on the types of 
activities occurring within the community and guidance from various protocols and agencies. 
2. A forecast of what GHG emissions are likely to look like in 2030 and 2050 based on expected 
population and economic growth as predicted in the City’s General Plan; with the consideration of 
major CO2e emission reduction policies. 
3. A reduction target, which identifies goals for reducing GHG emissions by 2030 and 2050. 
4. Reduction strategies, which describe the actions the community intends to take to achieve the 
reduction target. Each strategy identifies the amount of GHGs that will be reduced once the 
strategy is implemented. The CAP also estimates benefits of existing programs. 
508 of 1252

--- page 509 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
9 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
5. An implementation and monitoring program to track progress toward the reduction target and 
the status of the reduction strategies. A CAP consistency checklist for future development projects 
is included in the implementation program. 
2.2.2.3 
City CAP Consistency Checklist 
As part of the CAP, the City developed a CAP consistency checklist for land use projects. The checklist is a 
streamlined tool that identifies the CAP’s mandatory requirements and provides an opportunity for 
project applicants to demonstrate project consistency with GHG reduction measures and actions in the 
CAP. The checklist identifies a general development class and the strategies which must be implemented 
for the Project to be compliant with the CAP. The checklist is also an opportunity to identify additional 
Project characteristics that support the GHG reduction targets and programs in the CAP. If a project does 
not comply with the applicable mandatory GHG reduction measures, mitigation measures must be 
implemented to require compliance. 
2.3 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Impact Assessment 
2.3.1 
Thresholds of Significance 
The impact analysis provided below is based on the following CEQA Guidelines Appendix G thresholds of 
significance. The Project would result in a significant impact to GHG emissions if it would: 
1) 
Generate GHG emissions, either directly or indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the 
environment.  
2) 
Conflict with any applicable plan, policy, or regulation of an agency adopted for the purpose of 
reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases or 
The Appendix G thresholds for GHG emissions do not prescribe specific methodologies for performing an 
assessment, do not establish specific thresholds of significance, and do not mandate specific mitigation 
measures. Rather, the CEQA Guidelines emphasize the lead agency’s discretion to determine the 
appropriate methodologies and thresholds of significance consistent with the manner in which other 
impact areas are handled in CEQA. With respect to GHG emissions, the CEQA Guidelines Section 
15064.4(a) states that lead agencies “shall make a good-faith effort, based to the extent possible on 
scientific and factual data, to describe, calculate or estimate” GHG emissions resulting from a project. The 
CEQA Guidelines note that an agency has the discretion to either quantify a project’s GHG emissions or 
rely on a “qualitative analysis or other performance-based standards.” (14 CCR 15064.4(b)). A lead agency 
may use a “model or methodology” to estimate GHG emissions and has the discretion to select the model 
or methodology it considers “most appropriate to enable decision makers to intelligently take into 
account the project’s incremental contribution to climate change.” (14 CCR 15064.4(c)). Section 15064.4(b) 
provides that the lead agency should consider the following when determining the significance of impacts 
from GHG emissions on the environment:  
1. The extent a project may increase or reduce GHG emissions as compared to the existing 
environmental setting.  
509 of 1252

--- page 510 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
10 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
2. Whether the project emissions exceed a threshold of significance that the lead agency determines 
applies to the project.  
3. The extent to which the project complies with regulations or requirements adopted to implement 
a statewide, regional, or local plan for the reduction or mitigation of GHG emissions (14 CCR 
15064.4(b)).  
In addition, Section 15064.7(c) of the CEQA Guidelines specifies that “[w]hen adopting or using thresholds 
of significance, a lead agency may consider thresholds of significance previously adopted or 
recommended by other public agencies, or recommended by experts, provided the decision of the lead 
agency to adopt such thresholds is supported by substantial evidence” (14 CCR 15064.7(c)). The CEQA 
Guidelines also clarify that the effects of GHG emissions are cumulative and should be analyzed in the 
context of CEQA’s requirements for cumulative impact analysis (see CEQA Guidelines Section 15130). As a 
note, the CEQA Guidelines were amended in response to Senate Bill 97. In particular, the CEQA Guidelines 
were amended to specify that compliance with a GHG emissions reduction plan renders a cumulative 
impact insignificant.  
Per CEQA Guidelines Section 15064(h)(3), a project’s incremental contribution to a cumulative impact can 
be found not cumulatively considerable if the project would comply with an approved plan or mitigation 
program that provides specific requirements that would avoid or substantially lessen the cumulative 
problem within the geographic area of the project. To qualify, such plans or programs must be specified 
in law or adopted by the public agency with jurisdiction over the affected resources through a public 
review process to implement, interpret, or make specific the law enforced or administered by the public 
agency. Examples of such programs include a “water quality control plan, air quality attainment or 
maintenance plan, integrated waste management plan, habitat conservation plan, natural community 
conservation plans [and] plans or regulations for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.” Put another 
way, CEQA Guidelines Section 15064(h)(3) allows a lead agency to make a finding of less than significant 
for GHG emissions if a project complies with adopted programs, plans, policies and/or other regulatory 
strategies to reduce GHG emissions.   
The local air quality agency regulating the SFBAAB is the BAAQMD, the regional air pollution control 
officer for the basin. As previously stated, BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines include guidance on assessing GHGs 
and climate change impacts as required under CEQA Section 15183.5(b) and establish thresholds of 
significance for impacts related to GHG emissions. The City has determined, in its discretion, that the 
BAAQMD recommended GHG significance thresholds are based on substantial evidence to “attribute an 
appropriate share of GHG reductions necessary to reach statewide reduction goals to new land use 
development projects in the BAAQMD’s jurisdiction that are evaluated pursuant to CEQA” (BAAQMD 
2017a). Therefore, the City uses the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines to determine the level of impact from the 
project contributions of GHG emissions.  
As previously described, BAAQMD’s Draft Justification Report: CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the 
Significance of Climate Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans presents a project-level operational 
threshold of significance for GHG emissions based on compliance with a Qualified GHG Reduction 
Strategy or adherence to a suite of BAAQMD performance standards for land uses projects directly related 
510 of 1252

--- page 511 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
11 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
to building design, transportation and consistency with the CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b). The City 
CAP is a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy. The 2020 City CAP is the most recent update after the 2015 
CAP and is written to align with the goals of SB 32. The CAP addresses estimate emissions beyond 2020, 
as informed by the post-2020 GHG reduction targets of SB 32 and EO S-3-05. Specifically, the City set 
emission reduction goals of 15 percent below 2005 emissions levels by 2020, 4.3 MTCO2e per person by 
2030, and 1.2 MTCO2e per person by 2050. Therefore, Project compliance with the CAP adequately 
establishes Project compliance with statewide GHG reduction goals for the year 2030 associated with SB 
32, and with statewide GHG reduction goals for the years beyond 2030.  
2.3.2 
Methodology  
Construction and operations of the Proposed Project are compared for consistency with the overall 
Citywide GHG-reduction program encapsulated in the City’s 2020 CAP. Emissions were modeled using 
CalEEMod, version 2020.4.0. CalEEMod is a statewide land use emissions computer model designed to 
quantify potential GHG emissions associated with both construction and operations from a variety of land 
use projects. Project construction generated GHG emissions were calculated using CalEEMod model 
defaults for San Mateo County. Operational GHG emissions were based on CalEEMod model defaults for 
San Mateo County coupled with land use data contained in the Project Site plans prepared by KSH 
Architects and Project traffic trip generation rates identified by Kittelson & Associates (2022). For the 
purposes of this analysis, projected operational emissions associated with proposed operations are 
compared to the existing baseline, an existing 60,965 square-foot supermarket. 
2.3.3 
Impact Analysis 
Construction-related activities that would generate GHG emissions include worker commute trips, haul 
trucks carrying supplies and materials to and from the Project Site, and off-road construction equipment 
(e.g., dozers, loaders, excavators). Table 3-2 illustrates the specific construction generated GHG emissions 
that would result from construction of the Project. Once construction is complete, the generation of these 
GHG emissions would cease.  
 
Table 3-2. Construction-Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Emissions Source 
CO2e (Metric Tons/ Year) 
Construction Year 1 
348 
Construction Year 2 
623 
Construction Year 3 
71 
Total Construction Emissions  
1,042 
Source: CalEEMod version 2020.4.0. Refer to Attachment A for Model Data Outputs. 
As shown in Table 3-2, Project construction would result in the generation of approximately 1,042 
MTCO2e over the course of construction. Once construction is complete, the generation of these GHG 
emissions would cease. Furthermore, GHG emissions generated by the construction sector have been 
511 of 1252

--- page 512 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
12 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
declining in recent years. For instance, construction equipment engine efficiency has continued to 
improve year after year. The first federal standards (Tier 1) for new off-road diesel engines were adopted 
in 1994 for engines over 50 horsepower (hp) and were phased in from 1996 to 2000. In 1996, a Statement 
of Principles pertaining to off-road diesel engines was signed between the USEPA, CARB, and engine 
makers (including Caterpillar, Cummins, Deere, Detroit Diesel, Deutz, Isuzu, Komatsu, Kubota, Mitsubishi, 
Navistar, New Holland, Wis-Con, and Yanmar). On August 27, 1998, the USEPA signed the final rule 
reflecting the provisions of the Statement of Principles. The 1998 regulation introduced Tier 1 standards 
for equipment under 50 hp and increasingly more stringent Tier 2 and Tier 3 standards for all equipment 
with phase-in schedules from 2000 to 2008. As a result, all off-road, diesel-fueled construction equipment 
manufactured in 2006 or later has been manufactured to Tier 3 standards. Tier 3 engine standards reduce 
precursor and subset GHG emissions such as nitrogen oxide by as much as 60 percent. On May 11, 2004, 
the USEPA signed the final rule introducing Tier 4 emission standards, which were phased in over the 
period of 2008-2015. The Tier 4 standards require that emissions of nitrogen oxide be further reduced by 
about 90 percent. All off-road, diesel-fueled construction equipment manufactured in 2015 or later will be 
manufactured to Tier 4 standards. 
In addition, the California Energy Commission recently released the 2019 Building Energy Efficiency 
Standards contained in the California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 6 (also known as the California 
Energy Code). Both the 2016 and 2019 updates to the Building Energy Efficiency Standards focus on 
several key areas to improve the energy efficiency of newly constructed buildings and additions, and 
alterations to existing buildings. For instance, effective January 1, 2017, owners/builders of construction 
projects have been required to divert (recycle) 65 percent of construction waste materials generated 
during the project construction phase. This requirement greatly reduces the generation of GHG emissions 
by reducing decomposition at landfills, which is a source of CH4, and reducing demand for natural 
resources.  
Long-term operational GHG emissions attributable to the Project are identified in Table 3-3 
 
512 of 1252

--- page 513 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
13 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
Table 3-3. Operational-Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Emission Source 
CO2e (Metric Tons/ Year) 
Proposed Project 
Area Source 
0 
Energy 
0 
Mobile 
1,008 
Waste 
101 
Water 
24 
Total 
1,133 
Existing Onsite Land Uses 
Area Source 
0 
Energy 
134 
Mobile 
2,385 
Waste 
173 
Water 
10 
Total 
2,702 
Difference 
Area Source 
0 
Energy 
-134 
Mobile 
-1377 
Waste 
-72 
Water 
+14 
Total 
-1,569 
Source: CalEEMod version 2020.4.0. Refer to Attachment A for Model Data Outputs.  
Notes: Emission projections predominately based on CalEEMod model defaults for San Mateo County. Project 
emissions projections account for trip generation rates identified by Kittelson & Associates (2022), compliance 
with City Municipal Code Chapter 23.24, which prohibits the use of natural gas at the Project, and Peninsula 
Clean Energy CO2e intensity factor of 0 pounds of CO2e per electrical megawatt generated. Baseline emissions 
account for the current use of natural gas appliances.  
As shown in Table 3-3, there would be a decrease in operational GHG emissions over the existing baseline 
of 1,569 MTCO2e per year as a result of the Project. 
 
513 of 1252

--- page 514 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
14 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
 
2.3.3.1 
Generation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Resulting in Conflicts with any 
Applicable Plan, Policy, or Regulation of an Agency Adopted for the Purpose of 
Reducing the Emissions of Greenhouse Gases 
San Mateo Climate Action Plan 
The City CAP (2020) is the most recent update to the prior 2015 City CAP. The CAP is a strategic planning 
document that identifies sources of GHG emissions within the city’s boundaries, presents current and 
future emissions estimates, identifies a GHG reduction target for future years, and presents strategic 
programs, policies, and projects to reduce emissions from the energy, transportation, land use, water use, 
and waste sectors. The CAP includes GHG reduction measures in the form of GHG reduction programs, 
policies, projects, and strategies. The BAAQMD Qualified Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program 
criteria, in conjunction with the BAAQMD’s CEQA Guidelines (2017a), guided the development of the 
emissions reduction program developed by the City. All three guidelines comply with the requirements of 
statewide GHG-reduction targets and achieve the goals of the Scoping Plan. 
A Qualified Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program adopted by a local jurisdiction should include 
the elements below, as described in CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5. The BAAQMD’s CEQA Guidelines 
outline the methodology to determine whether a GHG reduction program meets these requirements. 
 
Quantify GHG emissions, both existing and projected over a specified time period, resulting from 
activities within a defined geographic area. 
 
Establish a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution to GHG emissions 
from activities covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable. 
 
Identify and analyze the GHG emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of actions 
anticipated within the geographic area. 
 
Specify measures or a group of measures, including performance standards, which substantial 
evidence demonstrates, if implemented on a project-by-project basis, would collectively achieve 
the specified emissions level. 
 
Establish a mechanism to monitor the plan’s progress toward achieving the level and to require 
amendment if the plan is not achieving specified levels. 
 
Be adopted in a public process following environmental review. 
The City CAP meets BAAQMD guidelines as follows: 
 
The CAP quantifies citywide GHG emissions, both existing and projected over the specified time 
period. The CAP projects emissions for the years 2020, 2030, and 2050 based on growth 
assumptions from the California Department of Finance and ABAG and were approved by City 
staff. Relative to 2017 emissions, San Mateo’s GHG emissions are expected to rise by more than 
23 percent by 2050 if no action is taken. 
 
The CAP establishes a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution of 
emissions from activities covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable.  
514 of 1252

--- page 515 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
15 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
 
The CAP policy provisions reduce emissions to 15 percent below 2005 emissions levels by 2020. 
 
The CAP policy provisions reduce emissions to 4.3 MTCO2e per person by 2030. 
 
The CAP policy provisions reduce emissions to 1.2 MTCO2e per person by 2050. 
 
The CAP identifies and analyzes the emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of 
actions anticipated within the City.  
 
The CAP specifies measures or a group of measures, including performance standards. 
 
The CAP establishes a mechanism to monitor its progress toward achieving the level and to 
require amendment if the plan is not achieving specific levels.  
The reduction measures contained in the CAP build on inventory results and key opportunities prioritized 
by City staff, members of the San Mateo Sustainability Commission, and members of the public. The CAP 
strategies consist of measures and actions that identify the steps the City will take to support reductions 
in GHG emissions. The City will achieve these reductions in GHG emissions through a mix of voluntary 
programs and new strategic standards. All standards presented in the CAP respond to the needs of 
development, avoiding unnecessary regulation, streamlining new development, and achieving more 
efficient use of resources. 
The CAP specifically states, “A project-specific environmental document that relies on this CAP for its 
cumulative impact analysis must identify specific GHG reduction measures applicable to the project and 
demonstrate the project’s incorporation of the measures. Project applicants and City staff will identify 
specific measures applicable to each project during project review. If applicable measures are not 
otherwise binding and enforceable, they must be incorporated as mitigation measures for the project.” 
A specific project proposal is considered consistent with the City CAP if it complies with the “required” 
GHG reduction measures in the adopted CAP. The required GHG reduction measures applicable to the 
Proposed Project, which the Project would comply with, include the following: 
Reduction Measure BE 1: All new development: The project does not have natural gas connections, 
and does not have any natural gas appliance or other equipment installed. The Project does not 
have any natural gas connections and no natural gas appliances installed. The Project would 
conform to the City’s Reach Code (Municipal Code Chapter 23.24), which also requires new 
mixed-use buildings to be all-electric (no natural gas infrastructure). 
Reduction Measure RE 2: All new developments with residential units: The project includes an on-site 
renewable energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum requirements of the California State 
Building Code: The Project is required, per California state law, to meet the minimum 
requirements of the 2019 California State Building Code for Project approval. In addition, Section 
23.24.030 of the City Municipal Code states “New residential buildings four stories or more shall 
provide a minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic system”. The proposed building included in the 
Project would be required to comply with this provision of the Municipal Code. As described in 
the Planning Application for the Proposed Project, the roof will contain 1,000 square feet of 5 
kilowatt solar panels. 
Reduction Measure EE 3: All new developments with residential units: The project includes trees that 
provide shade to residences: Landscaping would be provided around the perimeter of the 
515 of 1252

--- page 516 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
16 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
proposed building, in the community open space, along the third-floor terrace, and along 
portions of the perimeter of the rooftop. 
Reduction Measure CF 1(a): All new development with dedicated offstreet parking: The project 
includes parking spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired for EV chargers, consistent with 
state and any local regulations: Out of the 239 total Project parking spaces, approximately 36 
spaces would include electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. 
Reduction Measure ST 6: New developments of at least six multifamily units and/or 10,000 square feet 
of nonresidential space- Implement TDM strategies to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San Mateo Citywide TDM Plan: Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) is a combination of services, incentives, facilities, and actions that 
reduce single-occupant vehicle trips to help relieve traffic congestion, parking demand, and air 
pollutants, including GHG emissions. The purpose of TDM is to promote more efficient utilization 
of existing transportation facilities, and to ensure that new developments are designed to 
maximize the potential for sustainable transportation usage. A part of the TDM Plan, the Project is 
proposing bicycle storage rooms with capacity for 21 bikes and additional bike racks for 17 bikes. 
Additionally, the Project Site is located approximately 65 feet from a samTrans bus stop located at 
the corner of South Ellsworth and East 4th Avenue.  This accessibility to mass transit would result 
in fewer vehicle trips and vehicle miles traveled (VMT) compared to the statewide average and 
encourage walking and non-automotive forms of transportation, thus resulting in the reduction 
of, transportation-related emissions. Further, the Project is also located within easy access to 
numerous restaurants, markets, and other services in the vicinity of the Project Site. These services 
are conveniently located for future residents of the Proposed Project, which will further reduce the 
number of vehicle trips. Additionally, the Project Site would be located within an area surrounded 
by other offsite nonresidential and residential uses. The Project includes bike storage, which 
would encourage residents to bike rather than drive, when feasible.  Lastly it is noted, as shown in 
Table 3-3, there would be a decrease in operational GHG emissions of 1,569 MTCO2e per year 
compared with the existing baseline.   
Reduction Measure ST 7: All new development: Be located along El Camino Real, within one-half mile 
of any Caltrain station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development or Hillsdale Station 
Area Plan areas: The Project Site would be located less than one-half mile (0.3 mile) from the 
nearest Caltrain station (the San Mateo Station), located at 385 First Avenue.   
Reduction Measure SW 1: All developments with multifamily units or nonresidential space: provide 
an area of sufficient space to store and allow access to a compost bin; the Project plans show 
access to composting. 
Based on review of the Project Plans, the following applicable City CAP reduction measure requirements 
are not proposed by the Project: 
 WW 3: All new development: include a greywater system 
All development in the City, including the Project, is required to adhere to all City-adopted policy 
provisions, including those contained in the adopted CAP. The Project applicant must complete a checklist 
516 of 1252

--- page 517 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
17 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
to confirm consistency with the CAP to the satisfaction of City staff. The City ensures all provisions of the 
CAP are incorporated into projects and their permits through development review and applications of 
conditions of approval as applicable. The Proposed Project would not produce enough greywater 
internally to feasibly be required to construct the needed infrastructure in downtown San Mateo. 
Therefore, the implementation of Reduction Measure WW 3 is considered infeasible for the Project until 
such time that the infrastructure for greywater exists in downtown San Mateo. 
As demonstrated above, the Project does comply with all applicable and feasible reduction measures 
included in the CAP. As also demonstrated, there would be a decrease in operational GHG emissions of 
1,569 MTCO2e per year compared with the existing baseline. 
BAAQMD Plan 2017 Clean Air Plan 
The 2017 Clean Air Plan (BAAQMD 2017b) provides a regional strategy to protect public health and 
protect the climate. The 2017 Clean Air Plan defines a vision for transitioning the region to a post-carbon 
economy needed to achieve ambitious GHG reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 and provides a regional 
climate protection strategy that will put the Bay Area on a pathway to achieve those GHG emissions 
reduction targets. The 2017 Clean Air Plan includes a wide range of control measures designed to reduce 
emissions of CH4 and other ‘super GHGs’ in the near term, and to decrease emissions of CO2 by reducing 
fossil-fuel combustion. 
The 2017 Clean Air Plan includes a diverse range of control measures designed to decrease GHG 
emissions. Consistency of the Proposed Project with 2017 Clean Air Plan is demonstrated by assessing 
whether the Project supports all of the Project-applicable Clean Air Plan control measures for GHG 
emissions. The GHG-related control strategies of the Clean Air Plan include Mobile Source Measures, 
Transportation Control Measures and Energy and Climate Measures.  
Note, the Land Use and Local Impact Measures of the 2017 Clean Air Plan address the exposure of 
sensitive receptors to toxic air contaminants and is thereby not applicable to this impact discussion of 
GHG emissions. Additionally, the Stationary Source Measures in the Clean Air Plan such as those 
implemented to control emissions from metal melting facilities, cement kilns, refineries, and glass furnaces 
are not applicable to the Proposed Project. 
Transportation and Mobile Source Control Measures 
The BAAQMD identifies transportation and mobile source control measures as part of the Clean Air Plan 
to reduce emissions from these sources. The transportation control measures are designed to reduce 
emissions from motor vehicles by reducing vehicle trips and VMT in addition to vehicle idling and traffic 
congestion. The Proposed Project is consistent with the Clean Air Plan’s transportation and mobile source 
control measures in that it is the redevelopment of an existing urban environment. The Project is 
considered “infill development” as it proposes to redevelop a build-out property and enhance the physical 
design of the urban environment. Under Public Resources Code (PRC) section 21061.3, an “infill site” is 
defined as a site that “has been previously developed for qualified urban uses.” In turn, a “qualified urban 
use” is defined, pursuant to PRC section 21072, as “a residential, commercial, or public institutional, transit 
or transportation passenger facility, or retail use, or any combination of those uses.” Additionally, the 
517 of 1252

--- page 518 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
18 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
Project Site is located in an “urbanized area,” which is defined under PRC section 21071 as “an 
incorporated city” that meets the criteria of having a population of at least 100,000 persons.  
The Proposed Project would be located in close proximity to the San Mateo Caltrain station, which is 
located less than 0.3 mile to the northwest of the site at 385 First Avenue. At this location, Caltrain 
provides for local, limited and Baby Bullet service. There are two bus stops in close proximity to the 
Project Site, one on East 4th Street and South Ellsworth Avenue and the other on East 4th Avenue and 
North Delaware Street. The public transit accessibility would result in fewer vehicle trips and VMT 
compared to the statewide average and encourage walking and non-automotive forms of transportation, 
thus resulting in the reduction of, or no increase in, transportation-related emissions. The Project would 
also provide short-term and long-term bike storage.  
Pedestrian access to the Project Site would be provided via sidewalks along East 4th Avenue Street and 
South Ellsworth Avenue. The Proposed Project would provide convenient accessibility to nearby retail 
shops, markets, offices and more. These places of commerce and employment are conveniently located 
for the future residents of the Proposed Project to access via walking, biking, or a short vehicle trip, which 
will further reduce VMT. 
These aspects of the Project would result in the generation of a reduced amount of GHG emissions. 
According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), redevelopments (namely at brownfield 
sites such as the Project Site) produce 32 to 57 percent less emissions per capita relative to conventional 
developments (USEPA 2011); this is because the number of daily vehicle trips and daily VMT associated 
with the redevelopment tend to be lower compared with development on vacant land. As a result, the 
Proposed Project would not conflict with the identified transportation and mobile source control 
measures of the Clean Air Plan.  
Land Use and Local Impact Measures 
The BAAQMD Clean Air Plan includes Land Use and Local Impact Measures to ensure that planned growth 
is focused in a way that protects the people and environment from exposure of emissions associated with 
stationary and mobile sources and to promote mixed-use, compact development to reduce motor vehicle 
travel. The Land Use and Local Impact Measures identified by the BAAQMD are not specifically applicable 
to the Proposed Project as they relate to actions the BAAQMD will take to reduce impacts from goods 
movement and health risks in affected communities at the plan level. The measures also detail new 
regulatory actions the BAAQMD will undertake related to land use, including updates to the CEQA Air 
Quality Guidelines, and indirect source review.  
However, the Proposed Project would be a redevelopment, infill Project in support of these measures. For 
instance, the Project can be identified for its “location efficiency.” Location efficiency describes the 
location of the Project relative to the type of urban landscape its proposed to fit within, such as an “urban 
area,” “compact infill,” or “suburban center.” The Project site represents an urban/compact infill location 
within an area of the city developed with residential and commercial uses. The Project site is served by 
existing public transportation as previously described; it is within an active urban center surrounded with 
many existing offsite office, commercial, and residential buildings. The Project would locate additional 
residential land uses in close proximity to existing offsite office, commercial, and residential uses. 
518 of 1252

--- page 519 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
19 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
Therefore, the Project would provide future Project residents with the potential work opportunities and 
commercial service options within the Site and in close proximity to the Site. Additionally, the Project 
would locate potential employment opportunities for residents already living in the vicinity. The location 
efficiency of the Project site would result in synergistic benefits that would reduce vehicle trips and VMT 
compared to the statewide average and would result in corresponding reduction of transportation related 
GHG emissions.  
The Project would increase housing density in the vicinity over current conditions. Increased density 
reduces emissions associated with transportation as it reduces the distance people travel for work or 
services and provides a foundation for the implementation of other strategies to reduce GHG emissions. 
Energy and Climate Control Measures 
The Clean Air Plan also includes Energy and Climate Control Measures, which are designed to reduce 
ambient concentrations of emissions of CO2. Implementation of these measures is intended to promote 
energy conservation and efficiency in buildings throughout the community, promote renewable forms of 
energy production, reduce the “urban heat island” effect by increasing reflectivity of roofs and parking 
lots, promote the planting of (low volatile organic compound-emitting) trees to reduce biogenic 
emissions, lower air temperatures, provide shade, and absorb air pollutants. The measures include 
voluntary approaches to reduce the heat-island effect by increasing shade in urban and suburban areas 
through the planting of trees. The Proposed Project would increase landscaping throughout the Project 
Site which would help reduce the urban heat-island effect.  
The Project is consistent with the 2017 Clean Air Plan. The Proposed Project would conform to the 
Project-applicable control measures in the Clean Air Plan and would not disrupt or hinder the 
implementation of any other control measures.  
ABAG Final Plan Bay Area 2050 
ABAG’s Plan Bay Area is the RTP/SCS for the San Francisco Bay Area. Plan Bay Area establishes GHG 
emissions goals for automobiles and light-duty trucks, a potent source of GHG emissions attributable to 
land use development. As previously described, ABAG was tasked by CARB to achieve a 19 percent 
reduction of passenger car and light truck automotive GHG emissions by 2035 compared to 2005. Plan 
Bay Area 2050 establishes an overall mechanism to achieve these GHG targets for the Project region 
consistent with the target date of SB 32. According to ABAG, the San Francisco Bay Area will exceed the 
mandated GHG reduction target of 19 percent for 2035 by implementing Plan Bay Area. 
The RTP/SCS contains thousands of individual transportation projects, including highway improvements, 
railway electrification, bicycle lanes, new transit hubs, and replacement bridges. These future investments 
seek to reduce traffic bottlenecks, improve the efficiency of the region’s network, and expand mobility 
choices. The RTP/SCS is an important planning document for the region, allowing project sponsors to 
qualify for federal funding. In addition, the RTP/SCS is supported by a combination of transportation and 
land use strategies that help the region achieve state GHG emission reduction goals and federal Clean Air 
Act requirements, preserve open space areas, improve public health and roadway safety, support the vital 
goods movement industry, and use resources more efficiently. 
519 of 1252

--- page 520 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
20 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
Plan Bay Area 2050’s core strategy is “focused growth” in existing communities along the existing 
transportation network. This strategy allows the best “bang for the buck” in achieving key regional 
economic, environmental, and equity goals: it builds upon existing community characteristics, efficiently 
leverages existing infrastructure, and mitigates impacts on areas with less development. Plan Bay Area 
2050’s Growth Geographies identify a mix of locally identified Priority Development Areas, areas near high 
quality transit and areas of high opportunity as communities poised to accommodate additional growth. 
Priority Development Areas are defined as areas generally near existing job centers or frequent transit that 
are locally identified (i.e., identified by towns, cities or counties) for housing and job growth. Meanwhile, 
Plan Bay Area 2050 identifies areas outside of the existing urban footprint or in areas that are at a very 
high risk of wildfire as areas where additional construction should be deprioritized. 
The Project Site is located in an area identified as the “San Mateo Downtown Priority Development Area” 
in Plan Bay Area 2050 (ABAG 2020). Therefore, Plan Bay Area 2050 considers the Project location to be 
included in an area near high-quality transit and within a communities poised to accommodate additional 
growth, and therefore encourages urban growth in the Project Area. Furthermore, the Project is proposed 
within a built environment (infill development). The Project will increase density and land use diversity in 
the vicinity over current conditions. Increased density, measured in terms of persons, jobs, or building 
square footage, as well as increased land use diversity, potentially reduces emissions associated with 
transportation as it reduces the distance people travel for work or services and provides a foundation for 
the implementation of other strategies such as enhanced transit services. The Project would increase the 
site density from 60,965 total square feet of retail space to 155,052 square-foot mixed use-residential-
retail-office space.  
For these reasons, the Project is consistent with Plan Bay Area. Based on the Project’s proximity to public 
transportation, availability of bike storage space and proximity to retail stores, it can be assumed that 
regional mobile emissions will decrease in line with the goals of Plan Bay Area with implementation of the 
Proposed Project. Implementing ABAG’s RTP/SCS will greatly reduce the regional GHG emissions from 
transportation, and the Proposed Project will not obstruct the achievement of Plan Bay Area’s emission 
reduction targets. 
 
 
520 of 1252

--- page 521 ---
222 East 4th Avenue Project Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment  
ECORP Consulting, Inc. 
222 East 4th Avenue Project 
21 
September 2022 
2022-053 
 
3.0 
REFERENCES  
ABAG. 2021. Bay Area 2050. https://www.planbayarea.org/sites/default/files/documents/2021-
05/Draft_Plan_Bay_Area_2050_May2021_0.pdf 
_____. 2020. Bay Area 2050 GIS Data Catalog. https://opendata.mtc.ca.gov/datasets/MTC::priority-
development-areas-plan-bay-area-2050/about 
BAAQMD.  2022. Draft Justification Report: CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the Significance of Climate 
Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans  
_____. 2017a. Bay Area Air Quality Management District CEQA Air Quality Guidelines.  
_____. 2017b. Bay Area Final 2017 Clean Air Plan. 
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2021. California Emissions Estimator Model 
(CalEEMod), version 2020.4.0.  
California Air Resources Board (CARB). 2021. California Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory 2021 Edition.   
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/ghg-inventory-data 
_____. 2008. Climate Change Scoping Plan Appendices (Appendix F). 
Crockett, Alexander G. 2011. Addressing the Significance of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Under CEQA: 
California’s Search for Regulatory Certainty in an Uncertain World. 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 2022. San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand 
Memo.  
KSH Architects. 2022. 222 E 4th Street Plans. 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). 2014. Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report: 
Approved Summary for Policymakers. http://www.ipcc.ch/.  
_____. 2013.  Carbon and Other Biogeochemical Cycles. In: Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change. http://www.climatechange2013.org/ 
images/report/WG1AR5_ALL_FINAL.pdf.  
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). 2016a. Climate Change – Greenhouse Gas Emissions: 
Carbon Dioxide. http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/co2.html. 
_____. 2016b. Methane. https://www3.epa.gov/climatechange/ghgemissions/gases/ch4.html. 
_____. 2016c. Nitrous Oxide. https://www3.epa.gov/climatechange/ghgemissions/gases/n2o.html. 
_____. 2011.  Air and Water Quality Impacts of Brownfields Redevelopment. 
https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-09/documents/bfenvironimpacts042811.pdf
521 of 1252

--- page 522 ---
LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 
Attachment A – CalEEMod Output File for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
 
 
522 of 1252

--- page 523 ---
ATTACHMENT A 
CalEEMod Output Files – Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
523 of 1252

--- page 524 ---
Draeger's Mixed Use Project
San Mateo County, Annual
Project Characteristics - 
Land Use - Ground floor supermarket and office, other components not a part of acreage
Construction Phase - Project description says it would take approximately 20 months for construction
Grading - Site is 1.1 acres
Woodstoves - No woodstoves or fireplaces
Energy Use - Building is all electric, BMP 1
Land Use Change - 
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - 
1.1 Land Usage
Land Uses
Size
Metric
Lot Acreage
Floor Surface Area
Population
Supermarket
17.60
1000sqft
0.60
17,600.00
0
General Office Building
104.72
1000sqft
0.50
104,720.00
0
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
86.24
1000sqft
0.00
86,240.00
0
Apartments Low Rise
8.97
Dwelling Unit
0.00
8,970.00
26
Parking Lot
12.39
1000sqft
0.00
12,390.00
0
1.2 Other Project Characteristics
Urbanization
Climate Zone
Urban
5
Wind Speed (m/s)
Precipitation Freq (Days)
2.2
70
1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data
1.0 Project Characteristics
Utility Company
Peninsula Clean Energy
2024
Operational Year
CO2 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
0
CH4 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
N2O Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 1 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
524 of 1252

--- page 525 ---
Area Mitigation - 
Energy Mitigation - solar panels installed on rooftop
Water Mitigation - electric vehicle charging, low flow plumbing, low water landscaping
Vehicle Trips - values based off of traffic memo
Mobile Land Use Mitigation - 
Table Name
Column Name
Default Value
New Value
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
10.00
430.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
200.00
430.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
4.00
10.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
10.00
430.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
2.00
10.00
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseEndDate
8/17/2023
2/11/2025
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseEndDate
7/20/2023
2/11/2025
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseEndDate
10/13/2022
6/20/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseEndDate
8/3/2023
2/11/2025
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseEndDate
10/7/2022
6/16/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseStartDate
8/4/2023
6/21/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseStartDate
10/14/2022
6/21/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseStartDate
10/8/2022
6/7/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseStartDate
7/21/2023
6/21/2023
tblConstructionPhase
PhaseStartDate
10/6/2022
6/5/2023
tblEnergyUse
LightingElect
810.36
8,913.96
tblEnergyUse
LightingElect
3.58
374,908.34
tblEnergyUse
LightingElect
7.42
131,029.78
tblEnergyUse
NT24E
3,172.76
34,900.36
tblEnergyUse
NT24E
4.80
502,670.40
tblEnergyUse
NT24E
27.24
481,031.16
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
2,615.00
0.00
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 2 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
525 of 1252

--- page 526 ---
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
1.01
0.00
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
12.69
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24E
49.64
546.04
tblEnergyUse
T24E
3.66
383,286.00
tblEnergyUse
T24E
2.43
42,911.37
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
16,900.98
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
18.14
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
24.29
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceDayYear
11.14
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceHourDay
3.50
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceWoodMass
228.80
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberGas
1.35
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberNoFireplace
0.36
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberWood
1.52
0.00
tblGrading
AcresOfGrading
10.00
1.10
tblGrading
AcresOfGrading
9.38
1.10
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.40
0.60
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
2.40
0.50
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
1.98
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.56
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.28
0.00
tblVehicleTrips
ST_TR
8.14
4.00
tblVehicleTrips
ST_TR
177.62
108.00
tblVehicleTrips
SU_TR
6.28
4.00
tblVehicleTrips
SU_TR
166.47
108.00
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
7.32
4.00
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
9.74
12.00
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
106.78
108.00
tblWoodstoves
NumberCatalytic
0.18
0.00
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 3 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
526 of 1252

--- page 527 ---
2.0 Emissions Summary
tblWoodstoves
NumberNoncatalytic
0.18
0.00
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveDayYear
14.12
0.00
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveWoodMass
582.40
0.00
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 4 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
527 of 1252

--- page 528 ---
2.1 Overall Construction
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
2023
0.4270
1.5944
1.8810
3.9100e-
003
0.1386
0.0682
0.2067
0.0531
0.0648
0.1179
0.0000
343.3603
343.3603
0.0580
9.2000e-
003
347.5507
2024
0.7666
2.6221
3.3951
6.9900e-
003
0.1523
0.1056
0.2579
0.0413
0.1006
0.1418
0.0000
615.2963
615.2963
0.0990
0.0170
622.8468
2025
0.0854
0.2809
0.3853
7.9000e-
004
0.0174
0.0106
0.0280
4.7200e-
003
0.0101
0.0148
0.0000
69.9870
69.9870
0.0112
1.9000e-
003
70.8352
Maximum
0.7666
2.6221
3.3951
6.9900e-
003
0.1523
0.1056
0.2579
0.0531
0.1006
0.1418
0.0000
615.2963
615.2963
0.0990
0.0170
622.8468
Unmitigated Construction
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
2023
0.4270
1.5944
1.8810
3.9100e-
003
0.1069
0.0682
0.1750
0.0359
0.0648
0.1007
0.0000
343.3600
343.3600
0.0580
9.2000e-
003
347.5504
2024
0.7666
2.6221
3.3951
6.9900e-
003
0.1523
0.1056
0.2579
0.0413
0.1006
0.1418
0.0000
615.2958
615.2958
0.0990
0.0170
622.8463
2025
0.0854
0.2809
0.3853
7.9000e-
004
0.0174
0.0106
0.0280
4.7200e-
003
0.0101
0.0148
0.0000
69.9870
69.9870
0.0112
1.9000e-
003
70.8351
Maximum
0.7666
2.6221
3.3951
6.9900e-
003
0.1523
0.1056
0.2579
0.0413
0.1006
0.1418
0.0000
615.2958
615.2958
0.0990
0.0170
622.8463
Mitigated Construction
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 5 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
528 of 1252

--- page 529 ---
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.28
0.00
6.44
17.30
0.00
6.24
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Quarter
Start Date
End Date
Maximum Unmitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
Maximum Mitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
3
3-8-2023
6-7-2023
0.0202
0.0202
4
6-8-2023
9-7-2023
0.8815
0.8815
5
9-8-2023
12-7-2023
0.8839
0.8839
6
12-8-2023
3-7-2024
0.8541
0.8541
7
3-8-2024
6-7-2024
0.8488
0.8488
8
6-8-2024
9-7-2024
0.8476
0.8476
9
9-8-2024
12-7-2024
0.8418
0.8418
10
12-8-2024
3-7-2025
0.5895
0.5895
Highest
0.8839
0.8839
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 6 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
529 of 1252

--- page 530 ---
2.2 Overall Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Area
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mobile
0.9319
0.7836
8.1123
0.0151
1.6478
0.0105
1.6583
0.4401
9.7300e-
003
0.4498
0.0000
1,413.190
3
1,413.190
3
0.1112
0.0690
1,436.526
2
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
40.7565
0.0000
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
Water
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
6.7785
0.0000
6.7785
0.6962
0.0164
29.0829
Total
1.5253
0.7844
8.1809
0.0151
1.6478
0.0109
1.6586
0.4401
0.0101
0.4502
47.5351
1,413.303
0
1,460.838
1
3.2162
0.0854
1,566.697
2
Unmitigated Operational
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 7 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
530 of 1252

--- page 531 ---
2.2 Overall Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Area
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mobile
0.8206
0.6212
6.4722
0.0105
1.1304
7.8200e-
003
1.1382
0.3019
7.2500e-
003
0.3092
0.0000
988.7687
988.7687
0.0936
0.0552
1,007.568
7
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
40.7565
0.0000
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
Water
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
5.6424
0.0000
5.6424
0.5795
0.0137
24.2086
Total
1.4140
0.6220
6.5408
0.0105
1.1304
8.2000e-
003
1.1386
0.3019
7.6300e-
003
0.3095
46.3990
988.8814
1,035.280
4
3.0819
0.0689
1,132.865
4
Mitigated Operational
3.0 Construction Detail
Construction Phase
Phase 
Number
Phase Name
Phase Type
Start Date
End Date
Num Days 
Week
Num Days
Phase Description
1
Site Preparation
Site Preparation
6/5/2023
6/16/2023
5
10
2
Grading
Grading
6/7/2023
6/20/2023
5
10
3
Paving
Paving
6/21/2023
2/11/2025
5
430
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
7.30
20.71
20.05
30.06
31.40
24.49
31.35
31.40
24.53
31.24
2.39
30.03
29.13
4.18
19.33
27.69
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 8 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
531 of 1252

--- page 532 ---
4
Building Construction
Building Construction
6/21/2023
2/11/2025
5
430
5
Architectural Coating
Architectural Coating
6/21/2023
2/11/2025
5
430
OffRoad Equipment
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment Type
Amount
Usage Hours
Horse Power
Load Factor
Architectural Coating
Air Compressors
1
6.00
78
0.48
Paving
Cement and Mortar Mixers
1
6.00
9
0.56
Building Construction
Cranes
1
6.00
231
0.29
Building Construction
Forklifts
1
6.00
89
0.20
Building Construction
Generator Sets
1
8.00
84
0.74
Grading
Graders
1
8.00
187
0.41
Site Preparation
Graders
1
8.00
187
0.41
Paving
Pavers
1
6.00
130
0.42
Paving
Paving Equipment
1
8.00
132
0.36
Paving
Rollers
1
7.00
80
0.38
Grading
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
8.00
247
0.40
Site Preparation
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
7.00
247
0.40
Building Construction
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
6.00
97
0.37
Grading
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
2
7.00
97
0.37
Paving
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Site Preparation
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Building Construction
Welders
3
8.00
46
0.45
Residential Indoor: 18,164; Residential Outdoor: 6,055; Non-Residential Indoor: 183,480; Non-Residential Outdoor: 61,160; Striped Parking 
Area: 5,918 (Architectural Coating – sqft)
Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 1.1
Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 1.1
Acres of Paving: 0
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 9 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
532 of 1252

--- page 533 ---
3.2 Site Preparation - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive Dust
0.0269
0.0000
0.0269
0.0146
0.0000
0.0146
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
5.6700e-
003
0.0621
0.0332
9.0000e-
005
2.5400e-
003
2.5400e-
003
2.3300e-
003
2.3300e-
003
0.0000
7.5571
7.5571
2.4400e-
003
0.0000
7.6182
Total
5.6700e-
003
0.0621
0.0332
9.0000e-
005
0.0269
2.5400e-
003
0.0295
0.0146
2.3300e-
003
0.0169
0.0000
7.5571
7.5571
2.4400e-
003
0.0000
7.6182
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction
Water Exposed Area
Trips and VMT
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment 
Count
Worker Trip 
Number
Vendor Trip 
Number
Hauling Trip 
Number
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length
Hauling Trip 
Length
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor 
Vehicle Class
Hauling 
Vehicle Class
Site Preparation
3
8.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Grading
4
10.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Building Construction
7
87.00
37.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Paving
5
13.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Architectural Coating
1
17.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 10 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
533 of 1252

--- page 534 ---
3.2 Site Preparation - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
9.0000e-
005
6.0000e-
005
7.8000e-
004
0.0000
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.2000e-
004
8.0000e-
005
0.0000
9.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.2370
0.2370
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2389
Total
9.0000e-
005
6.0000e-
005
7.8000e-
004
0.0000
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.2000e-
004
8.0000e-
005
0.0000
9.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.2370
0.2370
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2389
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive Dust
0.0121
0.0000
0.0121
6.5500e-
003
0.0000
6.5500e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
5.6700e-
003
0.0621
0.0332
9.0000e-
005
2.5400e-
003
2.5400e-
003
2.3300e-
003
2.3300e-
003
0.0000
7.5571
7.5571
2.4400e-
003
0.0000
7.6182
Total
5.6700e-
003
0.0621
0.0332
9.0000e-
005
0.0121
2.5400e-
003
0.0147
6.5500e-
003
2.3300e-
003
8.8800e-
003
0.0000
7.5571
7.5571
2.4400e-
003
0.0000
7.6182
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 11 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
534 of 1252

--- page 535 ---
3.2 Site Preparation - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
9.0000e-
005
6.0000e-
005
7.8000e-
004
0.0000
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.2000e-
004
8.0000e-
005
0.0000
9.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.2370
0.2370
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2389
Total
9.0000e-
005
6.0000e-
005
7.8000e-
004
0.0000
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.2000e-
004
8.0000e-
005
0.0000
9.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.2370
0.2370
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2389
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.3 Grading - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive Dust
0.0307
0.0000
0.0307
0.0166
0.0000
0.0166
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
6.6700e-
003
0.0723
0.0435
1.0000e-
004
3.0200e-
003
3.0200e-
003
2.7800e-
003
2.7800e-
003
0.0000
9.0520
9.0520
2.9300e-
003
0.0000
9.1252
Total
6.6700e-
003
0.0723
0.0435
1.0000e-
004
0.0307
3.0200e-
003
0.0337
0.0166
2.7800e-
003
0.0194
0.0000
9.0520
9.0520
2.9300e-
003
0.0000
9.1252
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 12 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
535 of 1252

--- page 536 ---
3.3 Grading - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
1.1000e-
004
7.0000e-
005
9.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.9000e-
004
0.0000
4.0000e-
004
1.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2962
0.2962
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2986
Total
1.1000e-
004
7.0000e-
005
9.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.9000e-
004
0.0000
4.0000e-
004
1.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2962
0.2962
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2986
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive Dust
0.0138
0.0000
0.0138
7.4800e-
003
0.0000
7.4800e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
6.6700e-
003
0.0723
0.0435
1.0000e-
004
3.0200e-
003
3.0200e-
003
2.7800e-
003
2.7800e-
003
0.0000
9.0520
9.0520
2.9300e-
003
0.0000
9.1251
Total
6.6700e-
003
0.0723
0.0435
1.0000e-
004
0.0138
3.0200e-
003
0.0168
7.4800e-
003
2.7800e-
003
0.0103
0.0000
9.0520
9.0520
2.9300e-
003
0.0000
9.1251
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 13 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
536 of 1252

--- page 537 ---
3.3 Grading - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
1.1000e-
004
7.0000e-
005
9.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.9000e-
004
0.0000
4.0000e-
004
1.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2962
0.2962
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2986
Total
1.1000e-
004
7.0000e-
005
9.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.9000e-
004
0.0000
4.0000e-
004
1.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2962
0.2962
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
0.2986
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.4 Paving - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0445
0.4303
0.6074
9.3000e-
004
0.0213
0.0213
0.0196
0.0196
0.0000
81.2298
81.2298
0.0258
0.0000
81.8735
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0445
0.4303
0.6074
9.3000e-
004
0.0213
0.0213
0.0196
0.0196
0.0000
81.2298
81.2298
0.0258
0.0000
81.8735
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 14 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
537 of 1252

--- page 538 ---
3.4 Paving - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
1.9300e-
003
1.2600e-
003
0.0174
6.0000e-
005
7.0600e-
003
3.0000e-
005
7.1000e-
003
1.8800e-
003
3.0000e-
005
1.9100e-
003
0.0000
5.3141
5.3141
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
5.3567
Total
1.9300e-
003
1.2600e-
003
0.0174
6.0000e-
005
7.0600e-
003
3.0000e-
005
7.1000e-
003
1.8800e-
003
3.0000e-
005
1.9100e-
003
0.0000
5.3141
5.3141
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
5.3567
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0445
0.4303
0.6074
9.3000e-
004
0.0213
0.0213
0.0196
0.0196
0.0000
81.2297
81.2297
0.0258
0.0000
81.8734
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0445
0.4303
0.6074
9.3000e-
004
0.0213
0.0213
0.0196
0.0196
0.0000
81.2297
81.2297
0.0258
0.0000
81.8734
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 15 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
538 of 1252

--- page 539 ---
3.4 Paving - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
1.9300e-
003
1.2600e-
003
0.0174
6.0000e-
005
7.0600e-
003
3.0000e-
005
7.1000e-
003
1.8800e-
003
3.0000e-
005
1.9100e-
003
0.0000
5.3141
5.3141
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
5.3567
Total
1.9300e-
003
1.2600e-
003
0.0174
6.0000e-
005
7.0600e-
003
3.0000e-
005
7.1000e-
003
1.8800e-
003
3.0000e-
005
1.9100e-
003
0.0000
5.3141
5.3141
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
5.3567
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.4 Paving - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0810
0.7678
1.1561
1.7700e-
003
0.0368
0.0368
0.0340
0.0340
0.0000
154.2403
154.2403
0.0489
0.0000
155.4627
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0810
0.7678
1.1561
1.7700e-
003
0.0368
0.0368
0.0340
0.0340
0.0000
154.2403
154.2403
0.0489
0.0000
155.4627
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 16 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
539 of 1252

--- page 540 ---
3.4 Paving - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
3.4800e-
003
2.1500e-
003
0.0312
1.1000e-
004
0.0134
6.0000e-
005
0.0135
3.5700e-
003
6.0000e-
005
3.6200e-
003
0.0000
9.8387
9.8387
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
9.9141
Total
3.4800e-
003
2.1500e-
003
0.0312
1.1000e-
004
0.0134
6.0000e-
005
0.0135
3.5700e-
003
6.0000e-
005
3.6200e-
003
0.0000
9.8387
9.8387
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
9.9141
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0810
0.7678
1.1561
1.7700e-
003
0.0368
0.0368
0.0340
0.0340
0.0000
154.2401
154.2401
0.0489
0.0000
155.4625
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0810
0.7678
1.1561
1.7700e-
003
0.0368
0.0368
0.0340
0.0340
0.0000
154.2401
154.2401
0.0489
0.0000
155.4625
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 17 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
540 of 1252

--- page 541 ---
3.4 Paving - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
3.4800e-
003
2.1500e-
003
0.0312
1.1000e-
004
0.0134
6.0000e-
005
0.0135
3.5700e-
003
6.0000e-
005
3.6200e-
003
0.0000
9.8387
9.8387
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
9.9141
Total
3.4800e-
003
2.1500e-
003
0.0312
1.1000e-
004
0.0134
6.0000e-
005
0.0135
3.5700e-
003
6.0000e-
005
3.6200e-
003
0.0000
9.8387
9.8387
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
9.9141
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.4 Paving - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
8.6000e-
003
0.0799
0.1319
2.0000e-
004
3.7000e-
003
3.7000e-
003
3.4100e-
003
3.4100e-
003
0.0000
17.6603
17.6603
5.6000e-
003
0.0000
17.8003
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
8.6000e-
003
0.0799
0.1319
2.0000e-
004
3.7000e-
003
3.7000e-
003
3.4100e-
003
3.4100e-
003
0.0000
17.6603
17.6603
5.6000e-
003
0.0000
17.8003
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 18 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
541 of 1252

--- page 542 ---
3.4 Paving - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
3.8000e-
004
2.2000e-
004
3.3700e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
4.1000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
4.1000e-
004
0.0000
1.0997
1.0997
2.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.1078
Total
3.8000e-
004
2.2000e-
004
3.3700e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
4.1000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
4.1000e-
004
0.0000
1.0997
1.0997
2.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.1078
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
8.6000e-
003
0.0799
0.1319
2.0000e-
004
3.7000e-
003
3.7000e-
003
3.4100e-
003
3.4100e-
003
0.0000
17.6603
17.6603
5.6000e-
003
0.0000
17.8002
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
8.6000e-
003
0.0799
0.1319
2.0000e-
004
3.7000e-
003
3.7000e-
003
3.4100e-
003
3.4100e-
003
0.0000
17.6603
17.6603
5.6000e-
003
0.0000
17.8002
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 19 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
542 of 1252

--- page 543 ---
3.4 Paving - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
3.8000e-
004
2.2000e-
004
3.3700e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
4.1000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
4.1000e-
004
0.0000
1.0997
1.0997
2.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.1078
Total
3.8000e-
004
2.2000e-
004
3.3700e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
1.0000e-
005
1.5400e-
003
4.1000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
4.1000e-
004
0.0000
1.0997
1.0997
2.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.1078
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.5 Building Construction - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.1051
0.8080
0.8702
1.5200e-
003
0.0355
0.0355
0.0343
0.0343
0.0000
125.3034
125.3034
0.0213
0.0000
125.8353
Total
0.1051
0.8080
0.8702
1.5200e-
003
0.0355
0.0355
0.0343
0.0343
0.0000
125.3034
125.3034
0.0213
0.0000
125.8353
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 20 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
543 of 1252

--- page 544 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
2.7200e-
003
0.1202
0.0431
5.3000e-
004
0.0167
6.2000e-
004
0.0173
4.8200e-
003
5.9000e-
004
5.4100e-
003
0.0000
54.2403
54.2403
3.3400e-
003
8.0000e-
003
56.7066
Worker
0.0129
8.4500e-
003
0.1167
3.8000e-
004
0.0473
2.3000e-
004
0.0475
0.0126
2.1000e-
004
0.0128
0.0000
35.5637
35.5637
9.0000e-
004
8.8000e-
004
35.8489
Total
0.0157
0.1287
0.1598
9.1000e-
004
0.0639
8.5000e-
004
0.0648
0.0174
8.0000e-
004
0.0182
0.0000
89.8040
89.8040
4.2400e-
003
8.8800e-
003
92.5555
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.1051
0.8080
0.8702
1.5200e-
003
0.0355
0.0355
0.0343
0.0343
0.0000
125.3033
125.3033
0.0213
0.0000
125.8352
Total
0.1051
0.8080
0.8702
1.5200e-
003
0.0355
0.0355
0.0343
0.0343
0.0000
125.3033
125.3033
0.0213
0.0000
125.8352
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 21 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
544 of 1252

--- page 545 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
2.7200e-
003
0.1202
0.0431
5.3000e-
004
0.0167
6.2000e-
004
0.0173
4.8200e-
003
5.9000e-
004
5.4100e-
003
0.0000
54.2403
54.2403
3.3400e-
003
8.0000e-
003
56.7066
Worker
0.0129
8.4500e-
003
0.1167
3.8000e-
004
0.0473
2.3000e-
004
0.0475
0.0126
2.1000e-
004
0.0128
0.0000
35.5637
35.5637
9.0000e-
004
8.8000e-
004
35.8489
Total
0.0157
0.1287
0.1598
9.1000e-
004
0.0639
8.5000e-
004
0.0648
0.0174
8.0000e-
004
0.0182
0.0000
89.8040
89.8040
4.2400e-
003
8.8800e-
003
92.5555
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.5 Building Construction - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.1860
1.4494
1.6398
2.8900e-
003
0.0590
0.0590
0.0570
0.0570
0.0000
237.9108
237.9108
0.0396
0.0000
238.9013
Total
0.1860
1.4494
1.6398
2.8900e-
003
0.0590
0.0590
0.0570
0.0570
0.0000
237.9108
237.9108
0.0396
0.0000
238.9013
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 22 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
545 of 1252

--- page 546 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
4.9900e-
003
0.2260
0.0816
9.9000e-
004
0.0316
1.1800e-
003
0.0328
9.1500e-
003
1.1300e-
003
0.0103
0.0000
101.1497
101.1497
6.4800e-
003
0.0149
105.7615
Worker
0.0233
0.0144
0.2086
7.0000e-
004
0.0897
4.1000e-
004
0.0901
0.0239
3.8000e-
004
0.0243
0.0000
65.8433
65.8433
1.5400e-
003
1.5600e-
003
66.3480
Total
0.0283
0.2404
0.2902
1.6900e-
003
0.1214
1.5900e-
003
0.1230
0.0330
1.5100e-
003
0.0345
0.0000
166.9930
166.9930
8.0200e-
003
0.0165
172.1095
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.1860
1.4494
1.6398
2.8900e-
003
0.0590
0.0590
0.0570
0.0570
0.0000
237.9105
237.9105
0.0396
0.0000
238.9010
Total
0.1860
1.4494
1.6398
2.8900e-
003
0.0590
0.0590
0.0570
0.0570
0.0000
237.9105
237.9105
0.0396
0.0000
238.9010
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 23 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
546 of 1252

--- page 547 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
4.9900e-
003
0.2260
0.0816
9.9000e-
004
0.0316
1.1800e-
003
0.0328
9.1500e-
003
1.1300e-
003
0.0103
0.0000
101.1497
101.1497
6.4800e-
003
0.0149
105.7615
Worker
0.0233
0.0144
0.2086
7.0000e-
004
0.0897
4.1000e-
004
0.0901
0.0239
3.8000e-
004
0.0243
0.0000
65.8433
65.8433
1.5400e-
003
1.5600e-
003
66.3480
Total
0.0283
0.2404
0.2902
1.6900e-
003
0.1214
1.5900e-
003
0.1230
0.0330
1.5100e-
003
0.0345
0.0000
166.9930
166.9930
8.0200e-
003
0.0165
172.1095
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.5 Building Construction - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0199
0.1562
0.1866
3.3000e-
004
5.8900e-
003
5.8900e-
003
5.6800e-
003
5.6800e-
003
0.0000
27.2448
27.2448
4.4500e-
003
0.0000
27.3560
Total
0.0199
0.1562
0.1866
3.3000e-
004
5.8900e-
003
5.8900e-
003
5.6800e-
003
5.6800e-
003
0.0000
27.2448
27.2448
4.4500e-
003
0.0000
27.3560
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 24 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
547 of 1252

--- page 548 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
5.6000e-
004
0.0256
9.3400e-
003
1.1000e-
004
3.6200e-
003
1.4000e-
004
3.7600e-
003
1.0500e-
003
1.3000e-
004
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
11.3545
11.3545
7.6000e-
004
1.6800e-
003
11.8733
Worker
2.5500e-
003
1.4900e-
003
0.0226
8.0000e-
005
0.0103
5.0000e-
005
0.0103
2.7300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.7800e-
003
0.0000
7.3597
7.3597
1.6000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.4139
Total
3.1100e-
003
0.0271
0.0319
1.9000e-
004
0.0139
1.9000e-
004
0.0141
3.7800e-
003
1.7000e-
004
3.9600e-
003
0.0000
18.7142
18.7142
9.2000e-
004
1.8500e-
003
19.2872
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Off-Road
0.0199
0.1562
0.1866
3.3000e-
004
5.8900e-
003
5.8900e-
003
5.6800e-
003
5.6800e-
003
0.0000
27.2448
27.2448
4.4500e-
003
0.0000
27.3560
Total
0.0199
0.1562
0.1866
3.3000e-
004
5.8900e-
003
5.8900e-
003
5.6800e-
003
5.6800e-
003
0.0000
27.2448
27.2448
4.4500e-
003
0.0000
27.3560
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 25 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
548 of 1252

--- page 549 ---
3.5 Building Construction - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
5.6000e-
004
0.0256
9.3400e-
003
1.1000e-
004
3.6200e-
003
1.4000e-
004
3.7600e-
003
1.0500e-
003
1.3000e-
004
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
11.3545
11.3545
7.6000e-
004
1.6800e-
003
11.8733
Worker
2.5500e-
003
1.4900e-
003
0.0226
8.0000e-
005
0.0103
5.0000e-
005
0.0103
2.7300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.7800e-
003
0.0000
7.3597
7.3597
1.6000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.4139
Total
3.1100e-
003
0.0271
0.0319
1.9000e-
004
0.0139
1.9000e-
004
0.0141
3.7800e-
003
1.7000e-
004
3.9600e-
003
0.0000
18.7142
18.7142
9.2000e-
004
1.8500e-
003
19.2872
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.2316
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
0.0132
0.0899
0.1250
2.1000e-
004
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
0.0000
17.6175
17.6175
1.0500e-
003
0.0000
17.6438
Total
0.2448
0.0899
0.1250
2.1000e-
004
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
0.0000
17.6175
17.6175
1.0500e-
003
0.0000
17.6438
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 26 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
549 of 1252

--- page 550 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
2.5300e-
003
1.6500e-
003
0.0228
7.0000e-
005
9.2300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
9.2800e-
003
2.4600e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.5000e-
003
0.0000
6.9492
6.9492
1.7000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.0050
Total
2.5300e-
003
1.6500e-
003
0.0228
7.0000e-
005
9.2300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
9.2800e-
003
2.4600e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.5000e-
003
0.0000
6.9492
6.9492
1.7000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.0050
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.2316
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
0.0132
0.0899
0.1250
2.1000e-
004
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
0.0000
17.6174
17.6174
1.0500e-
003
0.0000
17.6438
Total
0.2448
0.0899
0.1250
2.1000e-
004
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
4.8900e-
003
0.0000
17.6174
17.6174
1.0500e-
003
0.0000
17.6438
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 27 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
550 of 1252

--- page 551 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2023
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
2.5300e-
003
1.6500e-
003
0.0228
7.0000e-
005
9.2300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
9.2800e-
003
2.4600e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.5000e-
003
0.0000
6.9492
6.9492
1.7000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.0050
Total
2.5300e-
003
1.6500e-
003
0.0228
7.0000e-
005
9.2300e-
003
4.0000e-
005
9.2800e-
003
2.4600e-
003
4.0000e-
005
2.5000e-
003
0.0000
6.9492
6.9492
1.7000e-
004
1.7000e-
004
7.0050
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.4396
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
0.0237
0.1597
0.2371
3.9000e-
004
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
0.0000
33.4476
33.4476
1.8800e-
003
0.0000
33.4947
Total
0.4633
0.1597
0.2371
3.9000e-
004
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
0.0000
33.4476
33.4476
1.8800e-
003
0.0000
33.4947
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 28 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
551 of 1252

--- page 552 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
4.5500e-
003
2.8100e-
003
0.0408
1.4000e-
004
0.0175
8.0000e-
005
0.0176
4.6700e-
003
7.0000e-
005
4.7400e-
003
0.0000
12.8659
12.8659
3.0000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
12.9646
Total
4.5500e-
003
2.8100e-
003
0.0408
1.4000e-
004
0.0175
8.0000e-
005
0.0176
4.6700e-
003
7.0000e-
005
4.7400e-
003
0.0000
12.8659
12.8659
3.0000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
12.9646
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.4396
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
0.0237
0.1597
0.2371
3.9000e-
004
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
0.0000
33.4476
33.4476
1.8800e-
003
0.0000
33.4947
Total
0.4633
0.1597
0.2371
3.9000e-
004
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
7.9800e-
003
0.0000
33.4476
33.4476
1.8800e-
003
0.0000
33.4947
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 29 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
552 of 1252

--- page 553 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2024
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
4.5500e-
003
2.8100e-
003
0.0408
1.4000e-
004
0.0175
8.0000e-
005
0.0176
4.6700e-
003
7.0000e-
005
4.7400e-
003
0.0000
12.8659
12.8659
3.0000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
12.9646
Total
4.5500e-
003
2.8100e-
003
0.0408
1.4000e-
004
0.0175
8.0000e-
005
0.0176
4.6700e-
003
7.0000e-
005
4.7400e-
003
0.0000
12.8659
12.8659
3.0000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
12.9646
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.0503
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
2.5600e-
003
0.0172
0.0271
4.0000e-
005
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.8299
3.8299
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.8351
Total
0.0529
0.0172
0.0271
4.0000e-
005
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.8299
3.8299
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.8351
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 30 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
553 of 1252

--- page 554 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
5.0000e-
004
2.9000e-
004
4.4100e-
003
2.0000e-
005
2.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
2.0200e-
003
5.3000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
5.4000e-
004
0.0000
1.4381
1.4381
3.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.4487
Total
5.0000e-
004
2.9000e-
004
4.4100e-
003
2.0000e-
005
2.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
2.0200e-
003
5.3000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
5.4000e-
004
0.0000
1.4381
1.4381
3.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.4487
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Archit. Coating
0.0503
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
2.5600e-
003
0.0172
0.0271
4.0000e-
005
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.8299
3.8299
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.8351
Total
0.0529
0.0172
0.0271
4.0000e-
005
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
7.7000e-
004
0.0000
3.8299
3.8299
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
3.8351
Mitigated Construction On-Site
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 31 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
554 of 1252

--- page 555 ---
3.6 Architectural Coating - 2025
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
5.0000e-
004
2.9000e-
004
4.4100e-
003
2.0000e-
005
2.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
2.0200e-
003
5.3000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
5.4000e-
004
0.0000
1.4381
1.4381
3.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.4487
Total
5.0000e-
004
2.9000e-
004
4.4100e-
003
2.0000e-
005
2.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
2.0200e-
003
5.3000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
5.4000e-
004
0.0000
1.4381
1.4381
3.0000e-
005
3.0000e-
005
1.4487
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
Increase Density
Increase Diversity
Improve Destination Accessibility
Increase Transit Accessibility
Integrate Below Market Rate Housing
Improve Pedestrian Network
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 32 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
555 of 1252

--- page 556 ---
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.8206
0.6212
6.4722
0.0105
1.1304
7.8200e-
003
1.1382
0.3019
7.2500e-
003
0.3092
0.0000
988.7687
988.7687
0.0936
0.0552
1,007.568
7
Unmitigated
0.9319
0.7836
8.1123
0.0151
1.6478
0.0105
1.6583
0.4401
9.7300e-
003
0.4498
0.0000
1,413.190
3
1,413.190
3
0.1112
0.0690
1,436.526
2
4.2 Trip Summary Information
4.3 Trip Type Information
Average Daily Trip Rate
Unmitigated
Mitigated
Land Use
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Annual VMT
Annual VMT
Apartments Low Rise
35.88
35.88
35.88
82,869
56,848
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.00
0.00
0.00
General Office Building
1,256.64
231.43
73.30
2,249,077
1,542,867
Parking Lot
0.00
0.00
0.00
Supermarket
1,900.80
1,900.80
1900.80
2,162,053
1,483,168
Total
3,193.32
2,168.11
2,009.98
4,493,998
3,082,883
Miles
Trip %
Trip Purpose %
Land Use
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
Primary
Diverted
Pass-by
Apartments Low Rise
10.80
4.80
5.70
31.00
15.00
54.00
86
11
3
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
9.50
7.30
7.30
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
General Office Building
9.50
7.30
7.30
33.00
48.00
19.00
77
19
4
Parking Lot
9.50
7.30
7.30
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
Supermarket
9.50
7.30
7.30
6.50
74.50
19.00
34
30
36
4.4 Fleet Mix
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 33 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
556 of 1252

--- page 557 ---
Land Use 
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
Apartments Low Rise
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
General Office Building
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
Parking Lot
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
Supermarket
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
5.0 Energy Detail
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Electricity 
Mitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Mitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy
Historical Energy Use: N
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 34 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
557 of 1252

--- page 558 ---
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Parking Lot
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 35 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
558 of 1252

--- page 559 ---
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Parking Lot
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 36 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
559 of 1252

--- page 560 ---
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kWh/yr
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
397912
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
469146
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
1.32038e
+011
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Parking Lot
4336.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
1.15275e
+010
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 37 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
560 of 1252

--- page 561 ---
No Hearths Installed
6.1 Mitigation Measures Area
6.0 Area Detail
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kWh/yr
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
397912
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
469146
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
1.32038e
+011
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Parking Lot
4336.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
1.15275e
+010
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 38 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
561 of 1252

--- page 562 ---
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Unmitigated
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
6.2 Area by SubCategory
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Architectural 
Coating
0.0722
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.5191
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
2.1900e-
003
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Total
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 39 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
562 of 1252

--- page 563 ---
Install Low Flow Bathroom Faucet
Install Low Flow Toilet
Install Low Flow Shower
Use Water Efficient Landscaping
7.1 Mitigation Measures Water
7.0 Water Detail
6.2 Area by SubCategory
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Architectural 
Coating
0.0722
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.5191
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
2.1900e-
003
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Total
0.5935
7.9000e-
004
0.0686
0.0000
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
3.8000e-
004
0.0000
0.1127
0.1127
1.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.1156
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 40 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
563 of 1252

--- page 564 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
MT/yr
Mitigated
5.6424
0.5795
0.0137
24.2086
Unmitigated
6.7785
0.6962
0.0164
29.0829
7.2 Water by Land Use
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
Mgal
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
0.584432 / 
0.368446
0.1854
0.0190
4.5000e-
004
0.7955
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
18.6123 / 
11.4075
5.9048
0.6065
0.0143
25.3343
Parking Lot
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
2.16952 / 
0.0670986
0.6883
0.0707
1.6700e-
003
2.9531
Total
6.7785
0.6962
0.0164
29.0829
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 41 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
564 of 1252

--- page 565 ---
7.2 Water by Land Use
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
Mgal
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
0.486481 / 
0.368446
0.1543
0.0159
3.7000e-
004
0.6622
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
15.4929 / 
11.4075
4.9152
0.5048
0.0119
21.0883
Parking Lot
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
1.80591 / 
0.0670986
0.5729
0.0589
1.3900e-
003
2.4581
Total
5.6424
0.5795
0.0137
24.2086
Mitigated
8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste
8.0 Waste Detail
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 42 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
565 of 1252

--- page 566 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
MT/yr
 Mitigated
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
 Unmitigated
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
Category/Year
8.2 Waste by Land Use
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
tons
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
4.13
0.8384
0.0496
0.0000
2.0770
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
97.39
19.7693
1.1683
0.0000
48.9776
Parking Lot
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
99.26
20.1489
1.1908
0.0000
49.9180
Total
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 43 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
566 of 1252

--- page 567 ---
8.2 Waste by Land Use
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
tons
MT/yr
Apartments Low 
Rise
4.13
0.8384
0.0496
0.0000
2.0770
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
97.39
19.7693
1.1683
0.0000
48.9776
Parking Lot
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Supermarket
99.26
20.1489
1.1908
0.0000
49.9180
Total
40.7565
2.4086
0.0000
100.9726
Mitigated
9.0 Operational Offroad
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Days/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
10.0 Stationary Equipment
Fire Pumps and Emergency Generators
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Hours/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
Boilers
Equipment Type
Number
Heat Input/Day
Heat Input/Year
Boiler Rating
Fuel Type
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 44 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
567 of 1252

--- page 568 ---
11.0 Vegetation
User Defined Equipment
Equipment Type
Number
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/12/2022 9:47 AM
Page 45 of 45
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Applied
568 of 1252

--- page 569 ---
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building
San Mateo County, Annual
Project Characteristics - 
Land Use - Two story building
Construction Phase - No building construction will be taking place, existing building will be demolished and replaced with a new, mixed use building.
Off-road Equipment - Existing building will be demolished and replaced with a new, mixed use building.
Energy Use - 
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - 
Vehicle Trips - Trips determined from traffic report
1.1 Land Usage
Land Uses
Size
Metric
Lot Acreage
Floor Surface Area
Population
Supermarket
60.97
1000sqft
1.10
60,965.00
0
1.2 Other Project Characteristics
Urbanization
Climate Zone
Urban
5
Wind Speed (m/s)
Precipitation Freq (Days)
2.2
70
1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data
1.0 Project Characteristics
Utility Company
Peninsula Clean Energy
2024
Operational Year
CO2 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
0
CH4 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
N2O Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
Table Name
Column Name
Default Value
New Value
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
60,970.00
60,965.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
1.40
1.10
tblVehicleTrips
ST_TR
177.62
107.41
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 1 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
569 of 1252

--- page 570 ---
2.0 Emissions Summary
tblVehicleTrips
SU_TR
166.47
107.41
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
106.78
107.41
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Quarter
Start Date
End Date
Maximum Unmitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
Maximum Mitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
Highest
2.2 Overall Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Area
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Energy
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Mobile
1.9004
1.4626
15.1890
0.0254
2.7312
0.0186
2.7498
0.7294
0.0172
0.7466
0.0000
2,340.607
5
2,340.607
5
0.2184
0.1299
2,384.782
2
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
69.8025
0.0000
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Water
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.3844
0.0000
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Total
2.1838
1.5848
15.2922
0.0261
2.7312
0.0278
2.7590
0.7294
0.0265
0.7559
72.1869
2,473.571
9
2,545.758
8
4.5911
0.1381
2,701.699
7
Unmitigated Operational
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 2 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
570 of 1252

--- page 571 ---
2.2 Overall Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Area
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Energy
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Mobile
1.9004
1.4626
15.1890
0.0254
2.7312
0.0186
2.7498
0.7294
0.0172
0.7466
0.0000
2,340.607
5
2,340.607
5
0.2184
0.1299
2,384.782
2
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
69.8025
0.0000
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Water
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.3844
0.0000
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Total
2.1838
1.5848
15.2922
0.0261
2.7312
0.0278
2.7590
0.7294
0.0265
0.7559
72.1869
2,473.571
9
2,545.758
8
4.5911
0.1381
2,701.699
7
Mitigated Operational
3.0 Construction Detail
Construction Phase
Phase 
Number
Phase Name
Phase Type
Start Date
End Date
Num Days 
Week
Num Days
Phase Description
1
Architectural Coating
Architectural Coating
1/2/2011
5
10
2
Building Construction
Building Construction
1/2/2011
5
200
3
Demolition
Demolition
1/2/2011
5
20
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 3 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
571 of 1252

--- page 572 ---
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction
4
Grading
Grading
1/2/2011
5
4
5
Paving
Paving
1/2/2011
5
10
6
Site Preparation
Site Preparation
1/2/2011
5
2
OffRoad Equipment
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment Type
Amount
Usage Hours
Horse Power
Load Factor
Trips and VMT
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment 
Count
Worker Trip 
Number
Vendor Trip 
Number
Hauling Trip 
Number
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length
Hauling Trip 
Length
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor 
Vehicle Class
Hauling 
Vehicle Class
Architectural Coating
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Building Construction
10.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Demolition
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Grading
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Paving
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Site Preparation
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
Residential Indoor: 0; Residential Outdoor: 0; Non-Residential Indoor: 91,448; Non-Residential Outdoor: 30,483; Striped Parking Area: 0 
(Architectural Coating – sqft)
Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 0
Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 0
Acres of Paving: 0
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 4 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
572 of 1252

--- page 573 ---
4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
1.9004
1.4626
15.1890
0.0254
2.7312
0.0186
2.7498
0.7294
0.0172
0.7466
0.0000
2,340.607
5
2,340.607
5
0.2184
0.1299
2,384.782
2
Unmitigated
1.9004
1.4626
15.1890
0.0254
2.7312
0.0186
2.7498
0.7294
0.0172
0.7466
0.0000
2,340.607
5
2,340.607
5
0.2184
0.1299
2,384.782
2
4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
4.2 Trip Summary Information
4.3 Trip Type Information
Average Daily Trip Rate
Unmitigated
Mitigated
Land Use
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Annual VMT
Annual VMT
Supermarket
6,548.79
6,548.79
6548.79
7,448,877
7,448,877
Total
6,548.79
6,548.79
6,548.79
7,448,877
7,448,877
Miles
Trip %
Trip Purpose %
Land Use
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
Primary
Diverted
Pass-by
Supermarket
9.50
7.30
7.30
6.50
74.50
19.00
34
30
36
4.4 Fleet Mix
Land Use 
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
Supermarket
0.473689
0.072335
0.232457
0.144246
0.025248
0.006233
0.010124
0.002125
0.001469
0.000591
0.028445
0.000434
0.002601
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 5 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
573 of 1252

--- page 574 ---
5.0 Energy Detail
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Electricity 
Mitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Mitigated
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
NaturalGas 
Unmitigated
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy
Historical Energy Use: Y
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 6 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
574 of 1252

--- page 575 ---
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Supermarket
2.49164e
+006
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Total
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Unmitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Supermarket
2.49164e
+006
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Total
0.0134
0.1221
0.1026
7.3000e-
004
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
9.2800e-
003
0.0000
132.9634
132.9634
2.5500e-
003
2.4400e-
003
133.7535
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 7 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
575 of 1252

--- page 576 ---
6.1 Mitigation Measures Area
6.0 Area Detail
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kWh/yr
MT/yr
Supermarket
2.41117e
+006
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Unmitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kWh/yr
MT/yr
Supermarket
2.41117e
+006
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 8 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
576 of 1252

--- page 577 ---
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Unmitigated
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
6.2 Area by SubCategory
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Architectural 
Coating
0.0318
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.2381
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
5.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Total
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 9 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
577 of 1252

--- page 578 ---
7.1 Mitigation Measures Water
7.0 Water Detail
6.2 Area by SubCategory
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Architectural 
Coating
0.0318
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.2381
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
5.0000e-
005
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Total
0.2699
1.0000e-
005
5.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.0900e-
003
1.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-
003
Mitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 10 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
578 of 1252

--- page 579 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
MT/yr
Mitigated
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Unmitigated
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
7.2 Water by Land Use
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
Mgal
MT/yr
Supermarket
7.51566 / 
0.232443
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Total
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Unmitigated
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 11 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
579 of 1252

--- page 580 ---
7.2 Water by Land Use
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
Mgal
MT/yr
Supermarket
7.51566 / 
0.232443
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Total
2.3844
0.2449
5.7800e-
003
10.2300
Mitigated
8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste
8.0 Waste Detail
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
MT/yr
 Mitigated
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
 Unmitigated
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Category/Year
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 12 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
580 of 1252

--- page 581 ---
8.2 Waste by Land Use
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
tons
MT/yr
Supermarket
343.87
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Total
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Unmitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
tons
MT/yr
Supermarket
343.87
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Total
69.8025
4.1252
0.0000
172.9328
Mitigated
9.0 Operational Offroad
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Days/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 13 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
581 of 1252

--- page 582 ---
11.0 Vegetation
10.0 Stationary Equipment
Fire Pumps and Emergency Generators
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Hours/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
Boilers
Equipment Type
Number
Heat Input/Day
Heat Input/Year
Boiler Rating
Fuel Type
User Defined Equipment
Equipment Type
Number
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Date: 9/2/2022 1:36 PM
Page 14 of 14
Draeger's Mixed Use Project - Existing Building - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
582 of 1252

--- page 583 ---
Appendix 3: 
CAP Consistency 
Checklist 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project 
complies with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP 
are eligible for streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this 
checklist for informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples 
of projects inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
 
General Plan amendments.  
 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase 
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan 
buildout scenario.  
 
 
583 of 1252

--- page 584 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-64 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
Industrial 
Manufacturing 
Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land 
use: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
Yes No 
If yes, please explain: 
      
 
 
THE SITE AREA OF THE PROJECT IS 1.14 ACRES.
10 TOTAL UNITS (8 X 1-BED, 2 X STUDIO)
DEMOLISH AN EXISTING BUILDING.  CONSTRUCT A NEW FIVE-STORY BUILDING WITH TWO LEVELS
OF BELOW-GRADE PARKING.  THE BUILDING PROVIDES 104,755 SF OF OFFICE SPACE, 17,658 SF OF
RETAIL SPACE AND 8,938 SF OF RESIDENTIAL SPACE (INCLUDING 10 RESIDENTIAL UNITS).   
THE PROJECT WILL UTILIZE DEVELOPMENT WAIVERS, INCENTIVES AND A SPECIAL USE PERMIT
(SUP) TO ADDRESS SOME REQUIREMENTS IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE AND
DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN AS PER CURRRENT ONGOING DISCUSSION WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
SEE BELOW
584 of 1252

--- page 585 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-65 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
Yes No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
BE 1: All new development: The project does not 
have natural gas connections, and does not have 
any natural gas appliances or other equipment 
installed 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE (CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN)
The project will be designed to meet
code requirements
There will likely be a backup energy
storage system (details are T.B.D.)
The project will be designed to meet
code requirements
585 of 1252

--- page 586 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-66 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space:  The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired 
for EV chargers, consistent with state and any local 
regulations. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers? 
      
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers that are 
accessible by members of the public beyond those 
who live and/or work at the project. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public? 
      
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
36
There will likely be a backup energy
storage system (details are T.B.D.)
586 of 1252

--- page 587 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-67 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM strategies 
to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
       
Additional notes: 
      
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies consistent 
with the targets in relevant area plans and the San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
ST 7. All new development: Be located along El 
Camino Real, within one-half mile of any Caltrain 
station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas. 
Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
Strategies will be determined by the
City's 3rd party traffic study
587 of 1252

--- page 588 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-68 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
SW 1. All developments with multifamily units 
or nonresidential space: Provide an area of 
sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
WW 3. All new development: Include a greywater 
system. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
YES
588 of 1252

--- page 589 ---
DRAFT PHASE I ENVIRONMENTAL 
SITE ASSESSMENT 
200-222 EAST 4TH AVENUE 
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
 
Prepared for 
Lane Partners 
644 Menlo Avenue, 2nd Floor 
Menlo Park, California 94025 
Prepared by 
Geosyntec Consultants, Inc. 
1111 Broadway, 6th Floor 
Oakland, California 94607 
Project Number: WR2671 
May 2, 2019 
589 of 1252

--- page 590 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
ii 
May 2, 2019 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Scope of Work .................................................................................................................1 
1.2 
Significant Assumptions ..................................................................................................3 
1.3 
Limitations and Exceptions .............................................................................................3 
1.4 
Special Terms and Conditions .........................................................................................4 
1.5 
User Reliance ..................................................................................................................4 
2. 
PROPERTY DESCRIPTION ...................................................................................................5 
2.1 
Location and Legal Description ......................................................................................5 
2.2 
Site and Vicinity General Characteristics .......................................................................5 
2.2.1 General Site Setting .............................................................................................5 
2.2.2 Regional Geology and Hydrogeology .................................................................5 
2.2.3 Site Geology and Hydrogeology .........................................................................5 
2.3 
Current Use of the Site and Adjoining Parcels ................................................................5 
3. 
USER-PROVIDED INFORMATION......................................................................................7 
3.1 
Title Records ...................................................................................................................7 
3.2 
Environmental Liens or Activity and Use Limitations ...................................................7 
3.3 
Specialized Knowledge ...................................................................................................7 
3.4 
Commonly Known or Reasonably Ascertainable Information .......................................7 
3.5 
Valuation Reduction for Environmental Issues ...............................................................7 
3.6 
Reason for Performing This Phase I ESA .......................................................................7 
3.7 
User Provided Documentation ........................................................................................7 
4. 
RECORDS REVIEW ...............................................................................................................9 
4.1 
Standard Environmental Records Database Search ........................................................9 
4.2 
Environmental Records Search Results ..........................................................................9 
5. 
ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL RECORD SOURCES................................................12 
5.1 
County of San Mateo County Health Services Agency ................................................12 
5.2 
Department of Toxic Substances Control – Region 2 ...................................................12 
5.3 
San Mateo Fire Department – Fire Prevention ..............................................................12 
5.4 
Cal Fire – Office of the State Fire Marshall ..................................................................12 
5.5 
City of San Mateo Public Works Department ...............................................................13 
5.6 
City of San Mateo Building Department .......................................................................13 
5.7 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District ..................................................................13 
5.8 
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Bay Area Region ...........................................13 
590 of 1252

--- page 591 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
iii 
May 2, 2019 
5.9 
United States Environmental Protection Agency Enforcement and Compliance History 
Online Database ............................................................................................................13 
5.10 State of California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal 
Resources Website ........................................................................................................13 
5.11 State of California, DTSC, EnviroStor Database ..........................................................14 
5.12 State of California, State Water Resources Control Board, GeoTracker Database ......14 
5.13 Historical Documentation Review ................................................................................15 
5.13.1 Historical Aerial Photograph Review ................................................................15 
5.13.2 Historical Topographic Map Review ................................................................16 
5.13.3 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map Review ................................................................18 
5.13.4 City Directory Review .......................................................................................19 
6. 
SITE RECONNAISSANCE ...................................................................................................22 
7. 
INTERVIEWS ........................................................................................................................25 
7.1 
Interview with Owner ....................................................................................................25 
7.2 
Interview with Occupant ...............................................................................................25 
7.3 
Interview with Local Government Officials .................................................................25 
7.4 
Interview with Others ....................................................................................................25 
8. 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS ..................................................................................................26 
8.1 
Recognized Environmental Conditions .........................................................................26 
8.2 
Historical Recognized Environmental Conditions ........................................................27 
8.3 
Controlled Recognized Environmental Conditions .......................................................27 
8.4 
De Minimis Conditions .................................................................................................27 
8.5 
Data Gaps ......................................................................................................................27 
8.6 
Exceptions and Deviations ............................................................................................27 
8.7 
Signature by Environmental Professionals ....................................................................28 
8.8 
Qualifications ................................................................................................................28 
9. 
NON-SCOPE CONSIDERATIONS ......................................................................................29 
10. REFERENCES .......................................................................................................................30 
 
 
 
591 of 1252

--- page 592 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
iv 
May 2, 2019 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1:  
Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-
Gradient)  
Table 2: 
Summary of Site Reconnaissance (page 47 of report) 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: 
Site Location Map 
Figure 2:  
Site Layout 
Figure 3: 
Facilities with Documented or Potential Releases of Chemicals to Soil and 
Groundwater within 0.25 Miles 
 
LIST OF APPENDICES 
Appendix A: User Provided Documents 
Appendix B: ERIS Database Report with Physical Setting Report 
Appendix C: Agency Records 
Appendix D: Historical Aerial Photographs 
Appendix E: Historical Topographical Maps 
Appendix F: Sanborn Map Report 
Appendix G: City Directory Report 
Appendix H: Photographic Log 
Appendix I: 
Property Owner’s Site Assessment Questionnaire 
 
 
592 of 1252

--- page 593 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
v 
May 2, 2019 
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
APN 
Assessor Parcel Number 
AST 
aboveground storage tanks 
ASTM 
ASTM International 
BAAQMD 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
bgs 
below ground surface 
CA-92 
California Route 92 
CFR 
Code of Federal Regulations 
CRECs 
controlled recognized environmental conditions 
CSMHSA 
County of San Mateo Health Service Agency 
DOGGR 
Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources 
DTSC 
Department of Toxic Substances Control 
DWR 
Department of Water Resources 
ECHO 
Enforcement and Compliance History Online 
EKI 
Erler & Kalinowski, Inc. 
EPA 
United States Environmental Protection Agency 
ERIS 
Environmental Risk Information Services 
ESA 
Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
ESLs 
Environmental Screening Levels 
ESS 
Environmental Support Services 
ft2 
square feet 
Geosyntec 
Geosyntec Consultants, Inc. 
GIS 
geographic information system 
HRECs 
historical recognized environmental conditions 
Lane 
Lane Partners 
mg/kg 
milligrams per kilogram 
msl 
mean sea level 
PCE 
tetrachloroethene 
RECs 
recognized environmental conditions 
RWQCB 
Regional Water Quality Control Board 
SWRCB 
State Water Resources Control Board 
593 of 1252

--- page 594 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
vi 
May 2, 2019 
the Site 
200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California 
the Standard 
ASTM E1527-13 Standard 
TRPH 
total recoverable petroleum hydrocarbons 
US-101 
United States Highway 101 
User 
Lane Partners 
USGS 
United States Geologic Survey 
UST 
underground storage tank 
VOCs 
volatile organic compounds 
 
594 of 1252

--- page 595 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
1 
May 2, 2019  
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Geosyntec Consultants, Inc. (Geosyntec) completed this Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
(ESA) for the property located at 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California (the Site, 
Figure 1). This Phase I ESA was completed by Geosyntec for Lane Partners (hereafter referred 
to as “Lane” or “User”). It is our understanding that Lane is contemplating purchase of the Site. 
This report documents the methods and findings of the Phase I ESA in general conformance with 
the scope and limitations of ASTM International’s (ASTM) Standard E1527-13 (the Standard) 
and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Standards and Practices for All 
Appropriate Inquiries (40 Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] Part 312). The purpose of the 
Phase I ESA is to identify recognized environmental conditions (RECs), historical recognized 
environmental conditions (HRECs), and/or controlled recognized environmental conditions 
(CRECs) at the Site and potential impacts from nearby facilities. For the purpose of this report, 
and as defined by the Standard, a REC is “… the presence or likely presence of any hazardous 
substance or petroleum products in, on, or at a property: (1) due to any release to the 
environment; (2) under conditions indicative of a release to the environment; or (3) under 
conditions that pose a material threat of a future release to the environment.”  
A HREC is “… a past release of any hazardous substances or petroleum products that has 
occurred in connection with the property and has been addressed to the satisfaction of the 
applicable regulatory authority or meeting unrestricted use criteria established by a regulatory 
authority, without subjecting the property to any required controls (for example, property use 
restrictions, activity and use limitations, institutional controls, or engineering controls).” 
A CREC is a REC “… resulting from a past release of hazardous substances or petroleum 
products that has been addressed to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority (for 
example, as evidenced by the issuance of a no further action letter or equivalent, or meeting risk-
based criteria established by regulatory authority), with hazardous substances or petroleum 
products allowed to remain in place subject to the implementation of required controls (for 
example, property use restrictions, activity and use limitations, institutional controls, or 
engineering controls).” 
Specific conditions that were not considered to be within the scope of this work, as well as 
limitations and exceptions, are identified in Section 1.3 of this report. 
1.1 
Scope of Work 
The scope of the Phase I ESA included:  
• A review of the general Site setting and condition, including known information 
regarding the regional and local geologic and hydrologic conditions.  
• A review of information provided by the User. Copies of documents provided to 
Geosyntec by the User are included in Appendix A. 
• A review of regulatory agency records to obtain information regarding environmental 
investigations on or near the Site. The records review included retaining the services 
595 of 1252

--- page 596 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
2 
May 2, 2019  
of a commercial database firm (Environmental Risk Information Services [ERIS]) to 
provide a listing of publicly documented environmental records for the Site and at 
nearby properties within a 1-mile radius. A copy of this report is included as 
Appendix B. 
• A review of available public agency records for information regarding environmental 
permits, violations, or incidents, and/or the status of enforcement actions. Agencies 
contacted included the following: 
 San Mateo County Environmental Health Department; 
 Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) – Region 2; 
 San Mateo Fire Department – Fire Prevention; 
 Cal Fire – Office of the State Fire Marshall; 
 City of San Mateo Public Works Department; 
 City of San Mateo Building Department; 
 Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD); 
 Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) – Bay Area Region; 
 EPA Enforcement and Compliance History Online (ECHO) database; 
 State of California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, and 
Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) website; 
 State of California, DTSC, EnviroStor Database; 
 State of California, State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB), GeoTracker 
Database; and 
 Copies of relevant documents obtained from agency files are included in 
Appendix C. 
• A review of historical records for the Site and nearby facilities to assess potential for 
environmental impairment. Historical records reviewed included historical aerial 
photographs, historical topographic maps, historical Sanborn Fire Insurance maps (if 
available), and historical city directory files. Copies of these historical records are 
included in Appendices D through G. 
• Performance of a Site reconnaissance to observe general conditions at the Site and 
adjacent properties as they relate to potential environmental impacts. The purpose of 
the reconnaissance was to identify, to the extent possible, current uses and 
improvements of the Site, past uses of the Site, current uses of adjacent properties, 
and evidence of existing and historical hazardous materials use, disposal, storage, and 
releases on the Site and/or adjacent properties. Photographs representative of Site 
conditions at the time of the reconnaissance are presented in Appendix H and the 
property assessment questionnaire completed by the property owner is included in 
Appendix I.  
596 of 1252

--- page 597 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
3 
May 2, 2019  
• Preparation of this Phase I ESA report, which documents the above activities, our 
findings and opinions as they pertain to the identification of RECs, and data gaps. 
1.2 
Significant Assumptions 
While this report provides an overview of potential environmental conditions both past and 
present, this Phase I ESA is limited by the availability of information at the time of the 
assessment. The conclusions and recommendations regarding environmental conditions 
presented in this report are based on observed conditions during the time of the Site 
reconnaissance and on information gathered during interviews, review of agency records, and 
execution of the scope of work previously described. 
1.3 
Limitations and Exceptions 
This Phase I ESA is intended to reduce, but not eliminate, uncertainty regarding the potential for 
RECs, HRECs, and CRECs to be present at the Site. Not every property warrants the same level 
of assessment. Consistent with good commercial or customary practice, the appropriate level of 
assessment was guided by the type of property subject to assessment and the information 
developed in the course of inquiry.  
Additional services considered optional by the Standard, such as asbestos-containing building 
materials, biological agents, cultural and historic resources, ecological resources, endangered 
species, health and safety, industrial hygiene, lead-based paint, lead in drinking water, mold, 
radon, and wetlands were not included in the scope of work.  
The findings and conclusions presented in this Phase I ESA are the result of professional 
interpretation of the information collected at the time of this study. This Phase I ESA was not an 
exhaustive search of all available records. Geosyntec cannot “certify” or guarantee that any 
property is free of environmental impairment; no warranties regarding the environmental quality 
of the property are expressed or implied. Specific limitations to our conclusions as a result of 
information gaps or incomplete information are documented in Section 8.5.  
The findings of this report, to the best of our knowledge, are valid as of the date of this report. 
However, changes in the conditions of a property can occur with the passage of time, whether 
due to natural processes or the works of man on this or adjacent properties. In addition, changes 
in applicable or appropriate regulations and standards may occur, whether they result from 
legislation, from the broadening of knowledge, or from other reasons. Per the Standard, a Phase I 
ESA completed less than 180 days prior to the date of acquisition of the Site is presumed valid. 
A Phase I ESA for which the information was collected or updated within one year of the date of 
acquisition of the Site may be used, provided that the report is updated within 180 days of the 
date of purchase or intended transaction. Per the Standard, if a Phase I ESA or Phase I ESA 
Update is not completed within 12 months of the information collected, a new Phase I ESA is 
required.  
Specified information contained in this report has been obtained from publicly available sources 
and other secondary sources of information. Although care has been taken in compiling this 
information, Geosyntec disclaims any and all liability for any errors, omissions, or inaccuracies 
of the third parties in such information and data. 
597 of 1252

--- page 598 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
4 
May 2, 2019  
The work was performed using the degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised under similar 
circumstances by environmental consultants practicing in this or similar localities at the time 
these services were provided. No other warranty or guarantee, expressed or implied, is made as 
to the findings, opinions, and conclusions included in this report.  
1.4 
Special Terms and Conditions 
Except as noted in Geosyntec’s scope of work included in the executed contract effective 
March 20, 2019, no special contractual terms and conditions were taken into account as part of 
this project or influenced the interpretations and conclusions presented herein. 
1.5 
User Reliance 
This Phase I ESA report has been prepared solely for the benefit of Lane, the User. Geosyntec 
has issued the Phase I ESA report to this entity and grants the right to rely on the report contents. 
No third party, other than the User and its creditor, financial or insurance underwriter, shall have 
the right to rely on Geosyntec opinions rendered in connection with the services without 
Geosyntec’s written consent. Any reliance shall be conditioned on the third party’s agreement to 
be bound to the conditions and limitations included within this Phase I report under Section 1.3. 
Geosyntec’s consent to provide a right-to-rely on this Phase I ESA report is further subject to the 
User’s approval. 
 
 
598 of 1252

--- page 599 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
5 
May 2, 2019  
2. 
PROPERTY DESCRIPTION 
2.1 
Location and Legal Description  
The Site is located at 200-222 East 4th Avenue in San Mateo, California (Figure 1). Topographic 
map coverage of the Site and vicinity is provided by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS), 
7.5-Minute, San Mateo Quadrangle (USGS, 2015). The Site consists of an approximately 65,608 
square-foot multi-story building on 1.14 acres of land and is referenced in the San Mateo County 
Assessor’s records as Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) 034-176-090, 034-176-080, 034-176-
070, and 034-176-050.  
2.2 
Site and Vicinity General Characteristics 
2.2.1 
General Site Setting 
According to the 2015 USGS topographic map (USGS, 2015), the Site has an elevation of 
approximately 33 feet above mean sea level (msl). The Site and surrounding areas are relatively 
flat, sloping to the north-northwest. The Site is bordered by South B Street to the west, East 4th 
Avenue to the north, South Ellsworth Avenue to the east, and East 5th Avenue to the south 
(Figure 2). The surrounding area consists of high-density residential buildings and commercial 
businesses. Historically the Site has contained residences, gasoline service stations, and a 
department store. 
2.2.2 
Regional Geology and Hydrogeology 
The Site is located in the San Mateo Groundwater Subbasin (Department of Water Resources 
[DWR], 2004). The subbasin occupies a structural trough, sub-parallel to the northwest trending 
Coast Ranges, at the southwest end of San Francisco Bay. San Francisco Bay constitutes its 
eastern boundary. The Santa Cruz Mountains form the western margin of the basin. The 
Department of Water Resources Bulletin 118 (updated in 2004) indicates that the water-bearing 
formations of the subbasin are comprised of two groups: the Santa Clara Formation and the 
Quaternary age alluvial deposits (DWR, 2004). The Quaternary alluvium constitutes the most 
important water-bearing formation of this basin and larger yielding wells acquire their water 
from it. Groundwater flow in the area is generally toward San Francisco Bay. 
2.2.3 
Site Geology and Hydrogeology 
The soil beneath the Site is classified as Quaternary alluvium and marine deposits (ERIS, 2018). 
The ERIS report indicated the soils below the Site as “Urban Land;” no other information was 
reported. According to files reviewed for the Site, depth to groundwater is approximately 30 feet 
below ground surface (bgs) with a flow direction to the northeast toward the San Francisco Bay 
(Erler & Kalinowski, Inc. [EKI], 1996). According to files reviewed for neighboring sites, depth 
to groundwater in the Site vicinity in 2017 was approximately 16 feet bgs with a groundwater 
flow direction to the east (Antea Group, 2018). 
2.3 
Current Use of the Site and Adjoining Parcels 
The Site is located in the downtown area of San Mateo at the intersection of South B Street and 
East 4th Avenue. The multi-story building at the Site was constructed in 1996-1997 and includes 
599 of 1252

--- page 600 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
6 
May 2, 2019  
a basement and two floors above the ground level. The building is approximately 65,608 square 
feet (ft2) in total. Since 1997, the facility has operated as grocery retail store and a restaurant. 
Figure 2 shows the layout of the Site at the time of Geosyntec’s Site reconnaissance on April 8, 
2019. The parcel maps from the City of San Mateo and San Mateo County Property Maps Portal 
are included in Appendix C. 
The Site vicinity and adjoining properties have been developed with residential and 
commercial/industrial facilities since the late 1890s. Adjacent properties included:  
• North – East 4th Avenue and commercial properties, including: restaurants, a beauty 
salon, a bakery, a parking garage, and a retail cell phone location. 
• South – East 5th Avenue and a multi-story residential building. 
• East – South Ellsworth Avenue and commercial properties, including: restaurants, a 
barber shop, a beauty salon, a bicycle shop, and a toy shop.  
• West – South B Street and commercial properties, including: a beauty salon, a 
dry-cleaner store front (no cleaning is done at this property), and a restaurant. 
The adjacent properties were observed from vantage points along the perimeter of the Site during 
the Site reconnaissance. The purpose of these observations was to attempt to identify sources of 
potential environmental impairment near the Site that could represent potential threats to the Site 
due to surface water runoff, groundwater transport, or other contaminant transport pathways. 
These observations are discussed in Section 6 of this report. 
 
 
600 of 1252

--- page 601 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
7 
May 2, 2019  
3. 
USER-PROVIDED INFORMATION 
In accordance with the Standard, Geosyntec requested that the User of the Phase I ESA provide 
information that would assist in identifying the possibility of RECs in connection with the Site.  
3.1 
Title Records 
The User provided Geosyntec with a copy of the title record dated February 14, 2019 from First 
American Title Insurance Company National Commercial Services. Review of the title record 
did not identify deed restrictions or land use covenants recorded for the Site.  
3.2 
Environmental Liens or Activity and Use Limitations 
The User did not indicate to Geosyntec if they were aware of any environmental liens or activity 
and use limitations associated with the Site as they are defined by the Standard.  
3.3 
Specialized Knowledge 
The User did not indicate any specialized knowledge in relation to the Site or vicinity.  
3.4 
Commonly Known or Reasonably Ascertainable Information 
The User did not indicate that they had any commonly known or reasonably ascertainable 
information regarding the Site.  
3.5 
Valuation Reduction for Environmental Issues 
The User did not provide Site property value information.  
3.6 
Reason for Performing This Phase I ESA 
The User indicated this Phase I ESA is being completed as part of their due diligence for a 
potential purchase of the property.  
3.7 
User Provided Documentation 
The User provided a number of documents for the Site, including as-built drawings, the title 
report, and the ground lease for the Site building, a Phase I ESA prepared for the Site in 1998 
(EKI, 1998), a Closure Report for excavation of petroleum-affected soils (EKI, 1996), and a case 
closure confirmation letter from the County of San Mateo (County of San Mateo Health Service 
Agency [CSMHSA], 1997). Copies of these documents are presented in Appendix A.  
According to the previous 1998 Phase I ESA, the Site was occupied as early as 1888. Between 
1888 and 1920, land use was residential. By 1929, Mohawk Oil gasoline service station was 
present on the north corner of the Site at East 4th Avenue and South B Street. By 1950, two auto 
repair/gasoline service stations were present, one in the north corner at East 4th Avenue and 
South B Street and one in the east corner at South B Street and East 5th Avenue. The Levy 
Brothers leased the Site in 1951, built a department store, and operated the business until 1985. 
By 1969, the service station in the east corner at South B Street and East 5th Avenue had been 
replaced by a parking lot. By 1985, the service station in the north corner at East 4th Avenue and 
South B Street had been replaced by a paved parking lot. The Levy Brothers department store 
601 of 1252

--- page 602 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
8 
May 2, 2019  
building was vacant from 1985 until at least 1988. The report indicated that no changes were 
apparent at the Site between 1985 and 1995 (EKI, 1998).  
Underground storage tanks (USTs) associated with the former gasoline service station at the 
north corner of the Site (East 4th Avenue and South B Street) were removed in 1988 (EKI, 1998). 
Soil sampling conducted as part of the tank removals identified a low concentration of total 
recoverable petroleum hydrocarbons (TRPH) at 60 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) in the area 
of the excavation. Approximately 335 tons of soil associated with UST removal activities were 
excavated. In 1993, one hydraulic lift associated with the former gasoline service station at the 
east corner of the Site (East 5th Avenue and South B Street) was removed. TPH concentrations 
were detected in soil around the excavation and approximately 20 cubic yards were removed 
(EKI, 1998).  
Sampling performed at the Site in 1994 by EKI identified petroleum hydrocarbon impacts in soil 
and groundwater, as well as a detection of lead in one groundwater sample. EKI performed a 
Phase II ESA in 1995. Results from sampling activities identified low concentrations of 
petroleum hydrocarbons in soil and water samples (EKI, 1998). 
In 1996, the Levy Brothers Department Store was demolished and construction began on the 
Draeger’s Market building. Construction activities included the excavation of soil for the 
subterranean parking structure, which included excavating the majority of the parcel. Petroleum 
hydrocarbon-impacted soils were encountered in the north corner of the Site (East 4th Avenue 
and South B Street) during excavation for the below-grade parking structure. The petroleum 
hydrocarbon-impacted soil was excavated and confirmation sampling did not identify the 
presence of petroleum hydrocarbons in soil that would warrant further investigative or remedial 
actions. In addition, no petroleum hydrocarbons or volatile organic compounds (VOCs) were 
identified in groundwater at the Site (EKI, 1998). 
CSMHSA issued a closure letter in 1997 stating that the site investigation for the impacted 
surface soils from past operations at the Site is complete. Based on available information, 
including current land use, no further action related to the surface soils is required (CSMHSA, 
1997). 
 
 
602 of 1252

--- page 603 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
9 
May 2, 2019  
4. 
RECORDS REVIEW 
4.1 
Standard Environmental Records Database Search 
In accordance with the Standard, Geosyntec reviewed applicable and reasonably accessible 
federal, state, and local records as part of this Phase I ESA. The environmental records review 
was performed in the form of an environmental database search by ERIS, in an attempt to 
ascertain whether the Site or neighboring properties were suspected of having environmental 
conditions with the potential to impact (or that have impacted) the soil, soil gas, and/or 
groundwater at the Site. The database search includes regulatory agency lists of known or 
potential hazardous waste facilities, landfills, hazardous waste generators, and disposal facilities 
in addition to properties under investigation. The information provided in this report was 
obtained from publicly available sources. The locations of the properties listed in this report are 
plotted with a geographic information system (GIS) utilizing geocoding of property addresses. 
Specific records and search distances for these environmental databases were reported by ERIS 
to be consistent with the Standard and are discussed in the ERIS report (dated March 29, 2019); 
this report is presented as Appendix B. 
4.2 
Environmental Records Search Results 
The complete list of properties that ERIS has identified is included in the report in Appendix B. 
A total of 234 facilities are listed in at least one of the databases searched. A summary of 
properties within 0.25 mile of the Site and located hydraulically upgradient or cross-gradient 
from the Site is provided below in Table 1.  
The Site vicinity has been densely developed with residential and commercial/industrial facilities 
since the late 1890s and available regulatory databases reviewed to date indicate several releases 
of VOCs, petroleum hydrocarbons, metals, and other hazardous substances to soil and 
groundwater from nearby facilities. ERIS’s search of available “reasonably ascertainable” 
government records found numerous listings, including the Site address, within the ASTM-
specified search distances in the sub-sections that follow.  
According to ERIS, the Site is listed in the following databases:  
• California Environmental Reporting System Hazardous Waste Sites (CERS HAZ); 
• San Mateo Certified Unified Program Agency (SANMATEO CUPA); 
• Facility Registry Service/Facility Index (FINDS/FRS); 
• Hazardous Waste Manifest Data (HAZNET);  
• RCRA Non-Generators (RCRA NON GEN); 
• Delisted County Records (DELISTED COUNTY); and  
• Leaking Underground Fuel Tank Reports (LUST).  
603 of 1252

--- page 604 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
10 
May 2, 2019  
These listings are related to recordkeeping violations, the releases from the USTs historically 
present on the Site, and the excavation and offsite disposal of contaminated soils. A summary of 
ERIS findings for the Site is presented in Table 1.  
Geosyntec’s review of the ERIS information also identified five facilities within 0.25 mile of the 
Site with documented or potential releases of chemicals to soil and groundwater. These facilities 
are shown in Figure 3 and include: 
• Wardrobe Cleaners/Park’s Wardrobe Cleaners, 333/335/344 E 4th Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94401: This facility is located approximately 200 feet to the northeast of 
the Site. Tetrachloroethene (PCE) was detected in groundwater downgradient of this 
facility at a fuel leak case lead which led to an investigation of dry-cleaning facilities 
nearby. Voluntary soil and groundwater sampling at the facility indicated detections 
of PCE and its breakdown products at concentrations above the RWQCB’s 2019 
Environmental Screening Levels (ESLs) (RWQCB, 2019). CSMHSA requested a 
work plan to evaluate the VOC concentrations in groundwater, soil, and soil vapor be 
submitted in early 2019. On March 29, 2019, CSS Environmental Services issued a 
work plan to collect and analyze soil vapor and groundwater samples at Wardrobe 
Cleaners. This facility is located downgradient to the Site with respect to groundwater 
flow direction; however, there is a potential that vapors from the VOCs associated 
with this facility may migrate and potentially pose a vapor encroachment condition at 
the Site. Based on the open status of the facility and distance from the Site, there is 
potential for this listing to have impacted the subsurface at the Site; therefore, this 
facility is considered a REC for the Site.  
• Blue Ribbon Cleaners, 37 East 3rd Avenue and 22 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401: 
This facility is located approximately 1,000 feet to southwest of the Site. This facility 
is listed in the ERIS report under the DRYCLEANERS database, but no additional 
information is provided. Based on the lack of documented spills and distance from the 
Site, this facility has low potential to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is 
not considered a REC. 
• A-1 Cleaners/New A-1 Cleaners/A 1 Cleaners, 17 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401: This facility is located approximately 965 feet to the southwest of the Site. 
Investigation of a nearby gasoline release (402 South Delaware Street) indicates the 
source of the PCE and breakdown products discovered in soil and groundwater 
samples may have originated at this facility, located hydraulically-upgradient from 
the gasoline release case location. Several utilities nearby could act as a preferential 
pathway for contaminant migration. Historical review indicates that dry-cleaning 
operations using PCE were conducted at this facility from approximately 1987 to 
2008. These findings suggest that this facility represents a potential source for PCE 
contamination in the neighborhood. CSMHSA requested voluntary soil and 
groundwater sampling in the vicinity of the facility to determine if the facility 
released PCE to soil and groundwater. It does not appear the facility has prepared a 
work plan to conduct soil and groundwater sampling since no other information is 
available on GeoTracker as of the date of preparation of this Phase I ESA. Based on 
the lack of information regarding contamination in the subsurface at this property and 
604 of 1252

--- page 605 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
11 
May 2, 2019  
the location hydraulically upgradient of the Site, this facility may impact the 
subsurface at the Site and is considered a REC for the Site. 
• R NU IT Cleaners, 200 East 2nd Avenue: This facility is located approximately 710 
feet to the northwest of the Site. According to EnviroStor, this is an actively operating 
dry-cleaning facility in business since 1985. The business currently operates under the 
name of Y.S. One-Hour Martinizing. The cleanup status is listed as “Refer: Other 
Agency as of 7/29/1994.” No other information is available on EnviroStor. Based on 
the cross-gradient location of this facility with the respect to the groundwater flow 
direction, this facility is not considered a REC for the Site. 
• Sunrise Cleaners, 233 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401: This facility is 
located approximately 1,600 feet to the northwest of the Site. Dry-cleaning operations 
at this facility began in the late 1960s and PCE was reportedly used as part of daily 
operations. No major violations or reports of releases or spills have been reported for 
this facility. The cleanup status is listed as “Refer: Other Agency as of 7/29/1994.” 
According to GeoTracker this facility is currently being remediated. Based on the 
cross-gradient location of this facility with the respect to the groundwater flow 
direction, this facility is not considered a REC for the Site. 
 
 
605 of 1252

--- page 606 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
12 
May 2, 2019  
5. 
ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL RECORD SOURCES 
Local and state agencies were also contacted by Environmental Support Services (ESS) for 
available current or previous documentation of hazardous materials use, storage, and/or 
unauthorized releases that may have impacted the Site. Section 1.1 of this Phase I ESA detailed 
the additional environmental record sources searched. The requested information and subsequent 
information received from the agencies is summarized below and provided in Appendix C.  
5.1 
County of San Mateo County Health Services Agency 
ESS requested records concerning the utilization, manufacture, storage and/or discharge of 
hazardous materials/waste, and any information concerning previous or ongoing Site 
investigations or remediation pertaining to hazardous materials or waste from the CSMHSA on 
April 1, 2019. ESS received a response on April 12, 2019 from CSMHSA indicating that the 
department did have records for the Site.  
The findings of the records reviewed for the two gas stations formerly located on the Site are 
consistent with information presented in EKI’s Phase I Preliminary ESA Update Report dated 
December 1998 (Section 3.7). Hazardous Materials Business Plan and Hazardous Waste Small 
Quantity Generator violations reviewed for the Site are associated with documentation and 
recordkeeping activities. These violations are not associated with releases or potential releases of 
hazardous materials to the Site soil or groundwater. 
5.2 
Department of Toxic Substances Control – Region 2 
According to ESS, previous contacts with the DTSC have disclosed that this office only collects 
and stores information (such as treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous waste) concerning 
sites which have existing businesses, industries, etc. present. On April 1, 2019, ESS requested 
files/information concerning the Site. On April 2, 2019, Ms. Reina Lopez of the DTSC informed 
ESS no records were found for the Site.  
5.3 
San Mateo Fire Department – Fire Prevention 
ESS requested file information from the Public Records Section of the San Mateo Fire 
Department – Fire Prevention on April 1, 2019. On April 8, 2019 ESS was informed by 
Ms. Patrice Olds of the City of San Mateo Fire Department – Fire Prevention that this 
department did not have records for the Site; she indicated that the lead agency for sites in San 
Mateo would be the CSMHSA.  
5.4 
Cal Fire – Office of the State Fire Marshall  
On April 1, 2019, ESS requested that the Public Records Section with Cal Fire check their 
records concerning the storage of hazardous materials/waste, pipelines, and USTs with regards to 
the Site. On April 10, 2019, Ms. Anne Henigan of Cal Fire indicated her department did have 
records for the Site.  
Records reviewed included a cleanup report for a diesel spill in the gutter at 222 East 4th Avenue 
on June 15, 2017. The diesel in the gutter was contained using an absorption pad. The absorption 
pad containing the spilled diesel was removed from the gutter and properly disposed.  
606 of 1252

--- page 607 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
13 
May 2, 2019  
5.5 
City of San Mateo Public Works Department  
On April 1, 2019, ESS requested the City of San Mateo’s Public Works Department check their 
records for information relating to industrial waste discharge permits or violations for the Site. 
On April 2, 2019, Mr. Chris Ortega of that department indicated that his department did have 
records for the Site.  
Records reviewed included a Waste Discharge Permit for 222 East 4th Avenue issued on January 
1, 2016 for the 5,000 gallon grease interceptor discharge. The Public Works Department 
indicated no illicit discharges were found in the past 10 years for the Site. 
5.6 
City of San Mateo Building Department  
On April 1, 2019, ESS requested the City of San Mateo Building Department search for building 
permits and certificates of occupancy for the Site. On April 5, 2019, the City of San Mateo’s 
Building Department provided documents for the Site. Those records encompassed building 
permits and inspection records as well as building project information sheets and 
correspondences that discussed various construction projects that occurred onsite, including new 
building construction, interior improvements, cooling tower installation, roof improvements, sign 
and banner installations, demolition of existing site improvements/building, shoring and grading, 
temporary power pole installation, building foundation, superstructure construction, fire sprinkler 
system installation, fire alarm system installation, electrical/mechanical/plumbing improvements, 
and tenant improvements.  
5.7 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District  
ESS requested files from the BAAQMD on April 1, 2019 concerning active, inactive, and old 
files concerning the Site. Ms. Michelle Reed of the Public Records department indicated on April 
2, 2019 that her department had no records for the Site.  
5.8 
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Bay Area Region 
ESS requested files regarding the Site on April 1, 2019 with the RWQCB. Ms. Melinda Wong of 
the RWQCB indicated on April 2, 2019 that her department had records for the Site and that all 
available records should be in the State of California, SWRCB GeoTracker database.  
5.9 
United States Environmental Protection Agency Enforcement and 
Compliance History Online Database 
Geosyntec visited the EPA ECHO database on April 16, 2019 to review records related to 
compliance, releases, and other information for facilities handling hazardous materials. The Site 
was listed as Draeger’s at 200 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 with Facility Registry 
Service ID 110065610191. No enforcement and compliance records were listed for the Site.  
5.10 
State of California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, 
and Geothermal Resources Website 
Geosyntec visited the State of California DOGGR website 
(https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/doggr/wellfinder/#close) on April 15, 2019 to obtain 
607 of 1252

--- page 608 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
14 
May 2, 2019  
information about past or present oil, gas, or geothermal wells in the vicinity of the Site. No 
wells were identified within 0.25 miles of the Site. 
5.11 
State of California, DTSC, EnviroStor Database 
Geosyntec reviewed the State of California, DTSC EnviroStor database for additional 
information regarding the Site and adjacent properties. The Site was not identified in the 
database. Records were found for facilities in the vicinity of Site as described in Section 4.2 and 
in Table 1. Copies of these records are included in Appendix C.  
5.12 
State of California, State Water Resources Control Board, 
GeoTracker Database 
Geosyntec reviewed the State of California, SWRCB GeoTracker database for additional 
information regarding the Site and adjacent properties. The Site was identified in the database as 
case number T0608178405. The cleanup status is listed as “Completed – Case Closed as of 
3/12/1997.” Details for this case are included in the files reviewed in Section 5.1. Records were 
also found for properties in the vicinity of Site. Many of these properties were also identified in 
the ERIS report and are summarized in Table 1 and described in Section 4.2. Below are the 
records for facilities in the vicinity of the Site not identified in the ERIS report that are located 
hydraulically upgradient or cross-gradient from the Site. Copies of these records are included in 
Appendix C. 
• Rivendell III, LTD, 980 Claremont Street (T0608100612): This facility, located 
approximately 2,190 feet east of the Site, lists a release of gasoline to groundwater 
reported in October 1989. The facility is listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED 
AS OF 3/16/2001. No other information is available. 
• Nedwick & Son, 1028 South Claremont Street (T0608100886): This facility, located 
approximately 2,540 feet southeast of the Site, lists a release of gasoline to 
groundwater reported in September 1995. CSMHSA issued a closure letter and 
summary on February 16, 2007 confirming completion of site investigation and 
corrective action for the USTs former located at the facility. Two 500-gallon USTs 
were removed in 1995. According to the information provided, the water quality 
objectives of the San Francisco Bay RWQCB were satisfied but an unknown quantity 
of residual impacted soil and/or groundwater remain in the subsurface. CSMHSA 
must be notified should excavation or development of the property be proposed that 
may encounter impacted soil and/or groundwater. The facility is listed as 
COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 2/16/2007. 
• Central Park South Apartments, 31 9th Avenue (T10000011175): This facility, located 
approximately 1,600 feet south of the Site, lists a release of heating oil to soil 
reported in October 2017 during removal of a 500-gallon heating oil tank. 
Approximately 96 cubic yards of soil was excavated beneath the UST in October 
2017. Petroleum concentrations in confirmation soil samples were non-detect for all 
constituents. CSMHSA issued a letter dated March 30, 2018 confirming the 
completion of a site investigation and corrective action for the USTs formerly located 
608 of 1252

--- page 609 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
15 
May 2, 2019  
at the facility. The facility is listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 
3/30/2018. 
• The Towers, 20 West 3rd Avenue (T0608101119): This facility, located 
approximately 1,400 feet west-southwest of the Site, lists a release of diesel and has a 
status of COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 9/2/1999. No other information is 
available.  
• Private Residence in Hillsborough (T0608100986): This facility, located 
approximately 2,460 feet west of the Site, lists a release of gasoline to soil reported in 
March 1998. The facility is listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 
12/19/2001. No other information is available.  
• Shell, 94 South El Camino Real (T0608100493): This facility, located approximately 
1,770 feet west of the Site, lists a release of gasoline to groundwater reported in 
March 1987. The Cleanup Action Report lists free product removal from August 11, 
1995 to January 17, 1996 and the facility is listed as COMPLETED - CASE 
CLOSED AS OF 10/30/2001. No other information is available.  
• Peninsula Regent, 1 Baldwin Avenue (T0608100390): This facility, located 
approximately 1,750 feet west-northwest of the Site, lists a release of gasoline to 
water reported in February 1987. In a report dated February 10, 1987, Harding 
Lawson Associates states that a petroleum odor was detected from excavation 
activities associated with building construction in January 1987. A gasoline service 
station previously operated at the property and it is believed that USTs were removed 
when the station ceased operations. Soil samples collected from the excavations 
detected concentrations of TPH as gasoline and groundwater samples detected 
concentrations of benzene and xylenes. CSMHSA issued a closure letter dated March 
23, 2000 confirming the completion of site investigation and corrective action for the 
USTs formerly located at the facility. The closure summary indicates approximately 
2,000 cubic yards of soil were removed from the facility in January 1987. No other 
details of cleanup activities are included. The facility is listed as COMPLETED - 
CASE CLOSED AS OF 3/23/2000.  
Based on the case closure status of these facilities, these facilities are not considered RECs for 
the Site. 
5.13 
Historical Documentation Review 
5.13.1 
Historical Aerial Photograph Review 
As part of this Phase I ESA, an aerial photograph review was conducted to help evaluate past 
uses of the Site, as well as adjoining properties. The ERIS Aerial Photographs provided 
Geosyntec with aerial photographs dated 1930, 1941, 1946, 1956, 1960, 1968, 1974, 1982, 1987, 
1993, 2005, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, and 2016. A copy of the aerial photographs package 
obtained from ERIS is included as Appendix D to this report. The following sections describe 
conditions at the Site and surrounding areas over time based on aerial photograph interpretations 
and observations. 
609 of 1252

--- page 610 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
16 
May 2, 2019  
5.13.1.1 Site 
From 1930, the Site appeared to be used for commercial and/or residential purposes. Several 
buildings and trees can be observed at the Site, including the gas station in the north corner at 
East 4th Avenue and South B Street.  
By 1956, one large building and two gas stations are observed on the Site, one in the north corner 
and the second one in the south corner at East 5th Avenue and South B Street. By 1968, both gas 
stations appear to have been replaced with parking lots. The Site appears unchanged through 
1993. 
By 2005, the Site appears to have one large building occupying the majority of the Site. The 
building is assumed to be the current building at the Site. The Site appears to be relatively 
unchanged between 2005 and 2016, representing the current Site conditions at the time of the 
Site reconnaissance.  
5.13.1.2 Surrounding Areas 
From 1930, the surrounding area appeared to be commercial and residential with developed 
roads. The area southwest of the Site appears vegetated with grass and trees. A park appears to 
be located southwest of the Site. A creek appears to the north of the Site. A rail line is observed 
to run from northwest to southeast adjacent to the Site.  
By 1941, the area south of the Site appears further developed with residential housing. The area 
north of the Site appears unchanged. The surrounding area in the 1947 aerial imagery appears 
unchanged.  
By 1956, the surrounding area appears fully developed. The road and highway network are 
observed to be further developed. The neighboring parcel located directly northeast to the Site 
appears developed with additional structures, appearing to be used for commercial purposes. The 
1960 aerial imagery is of poor quality and the surrounding area appears unchanged. 
By 1968 and 1974, the area surrounding the Site appears to be developed with multi-story 
buildings for commercial and residential use. The appearance of these buildings can be observed 
in the surrounding area west of the Site.  
From 1974 to 2016, the surrounding area appears mainly unchanged. Various surrounding 
buildings appear to have changed or undergone construction. No new buildings or significant 
changes to the surrounding area were observed from 1974 to 2016.  
5.13.2 
Historical Topographic Map Review 
A historical topographic map review was conducted to evaluate past uses of the Site, as well as 
adjoining properties. The ERIS Historical Topographic Map Report provided Geosyntec with 
topographic maps (and target quadrangle) dated 1896, 1899, 1915, 1939, 1947, 1949, 1956, 
1968, 1973, 1980, 1993, 1997, and 2015. A copy of the topographic map package is included as 
Appendix E to this report. The following sections describe conditions at the Site and 
surrounding areas over time based on topographic map interpretations and observations. 
610 of 1252

--- page 611 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
17 
May 2, 2019  
5.13.2.1 Site 
From 1896 to 1915, the Site was depicted as developed land, with a few structures within the 
Site. During this period, the Site appears to remain unchanged.  
The 1939, 1947, 1949, 1956, 1968, 1973, 1980, 1993, 1997, and 2015 topographic maps do not 
appear to contain building detail within the Site area. Since the topographic maps do not contain 
details on the Site, the conditions of the Site cannot be observed and concluded.  
5.13.2.2 Surrounding Areas 
In 1896, the area surrounding the Site appeared to be slightly developed with a basic local road 
network and small residential/commercial structures in the vicinity, primarily centered adjacent 
to the regional rail line. The rail line runs northwest to southeast adjacent to the Site. The City of 
Burlingame is depicted approximately 1.5 miles to the northwest of the Site and marshland 
approximately 0.75 mile to the northeast from the Site, which is within the City of San Mateo. A 
creek is observed approximately 1.5 miles to the southwest of the Site.  
By 1939, United States Highway 101 (US-101) appears within 0.5 mile of the Site, to the 
northeast, running northwest to southeast. To the north, the marshland adjacent to the San 
Francisco Bay shoreline appears to have been filled in and developed, with roads extending 
throughout. Several schools and churches appear developed to the northwest of the Site. The rail 
line appears to be located to the east of the Site. The area approximately 1 mile southwest of the 
Site appears further developed with residential housing and a local road network.  
By 1947, a station appears to the northeast of the Site. A hospital is located northwest of the Site. 
The local gridded road network within the city of San Mateo has been developed further along 
the San Francisco Bay. Approximately 1.5 miles northeast of the Site, the area around Coyote 
Point has been developed further with buildings, a yacht harbor, and a municipal golf course. A 
toll road has been constructed to connect to the US-101. Approximately 1.25 miles from the Site, 
the Bay Meadows Airport and Bay Meadows Race Track is identified. The 1949 topographic 
map remains relatively unchanged. 
By 1956, the exit to the City of San Mateo from US-101 has been upgraded to a clover-leaf 
structure, with more development shown along the expanded highway. The local road network 
has expanded further east and south of the Site. The College of San Mateo Campus has been 
further developed with additional buildings. A substation appears to the south of Cayote Point 
Yacht Harbor. The Bay Meadows Airport appears to have been developed into the County 
Fairgrounds.  
By 1968, the California Route 92 (CA-92) has been expanded to the south of the Site. More 
development appears to have occurred along CA-92. The 1973 topographic map remains 
relatively unchanged. 
By 1980, further development is shown along CA-92 and to the north of the Site, within 1.75 
miles.  
By 1993, the station to the east of the Site no longer appears on the topographic map. The 
vicinity remains relatively unchanged through 2015. No new buildings or significant changes to 
611 of 1252

--- page 612 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
18 
May 2, 2019  
the surrounding area were observed from 1993 to 2015; however, those topographic maps 
exclude building details.  
5.13.3 
Sanborn Fire Insurance Map Review 
A review of Sanborn® fire insurance maps was conducted to evaluate past uses of the Site and 
the adjacent area. The ERIS Fire Insurance Map Research Results provided Geosyntec with 
maps dated 1888, 1891, 1897, 1901, 1908, 1920, 1950, 1953, 1956, 1961, and 1969. A copy of 
the insurance map package is included in Appendix F to this report. The following sections 
describe conditions at the Site and the surrounding areas over time based on fire insurance map 
interpretations and observations. 
5.13.3.1 Site 
In 1888 and 1891, there appears to be several structures within the Site including five residential 
dwellings and four sheds.  
In 1897, only one shed remains on the Site and it appears there is an outhouse. By 1901, there is 
one additional residential dwelling and additional structures on the Site. In 1908, the Site appears 
relatively unchanged. In 1920, one residential unit is no longer present on the Site.  
In 1950, one residential unit is left at the Site and two gasoline service stations appear, one in the 
north corner at East 4th Avenue and South B Street and one in the south corner at East 5th Avenue 
and South B Street. In 1953, a parking lot and reinforced concrete steel yard appear to the west 
of the two gasoline service stations. In 1956, there are no residential units left at the Site. In 
1969, the gasoline service station in the south corner at East 5th Avenue and South B Street has 
been replaced by a parking lot.  
5.13.3.2 Surrounding Areas 
In 1888, the area surrounding the Site appeared to be slightly developed with commercial and 
residential properties. The 1888 fire insurance map appears partially incomplete for the area 
south of 5th Avenue. Directly northwest of the Site is a church and a school. A railroad 
station/tracks are located directly northeast of the Site. In the general vicinity of the Site are 
saloons, restaurants, hotels, a library, a plumbing business, lumber yards, wood and coal yard, 
and a grocery store. The general vicinity remains unchanged through 1891. 
The 1901 fire insurance map appears partially incomplete for the area south of 5th Avenue. In 
1901, the general vicinity appears consistent with 1888 and 1891, with the exception of a light 
and power company located northeast to the Site and a drug store to the northwest.  
The 1908 fire insurance map provides imagery for the area south of 5th Avenue; in the vicinity 
are residential units, private grounds, a skating rink, and a planing mill. The 1920 fire insurance 
map is poor quality and therefore inconclusive.  
In 1950, the general vicinity appears to have been built up further with various residential 
(apartment buildings) and commercial properties. The neighboring building on the southeastern 
corner of South B Street and 4th Avenue is an auto service shop. The general vicinity includes a 
theatre, bowling alley, auto parking, auto sales and service shop, the Pacific Greyhound Stage 
Depot, a bank, post office, paint shop, and police station.  
612 of 1252

--- page 613 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
19 
May 2, 2019  
In 1953, the property adjacent to the Site on the east is occupied by a paint, glass, and wallpaper 
company. To the north of the Site, auto parking is located along 4th Avenue. The general vicinity 
otherwise appears unchanged. 
In 1956, the area directly west of the Site along San Mateo Drive is further developed with 
commercial properties, inclusive of a parking lot. The general vicinity otherwise appears 
unchanged. No additional developments or significant changes to the surrounding area were 
observed from 1956 to 1969; however, some of the building details are obscured from view 
during those years. 
5.13.4 
City Directory Review 
Historical City Directory listings were obtained from ERIS for the Site and adjoining properties. 
Directories were available and reviewed for the years 1936 through 2018, non-inclusive. 
Directories were available for the target street East 4th Avenue and East 5th Avenue as described 
below. A copy of ERIS’s City Directory Report is included as Appendix G to this report. 
5.13.4.1 Site 
Geosyntec reviewed the City Directory listings for the Site: 
• 1936: Davis Glen; and McNamara Bessie.  
• 1939: Eldredge C A; and Bauer Lester.  
• 1942: Eldredge. 
• 1949-77: No listings. 
• 1982: Henn Ralph W.  
• 1987-96: No listings. 
• 2001-12: Draeger’s Supermarket; and Viognier Restaurant.  
• 2018: Draeger’s Supermarket; USA Doors Gates Services; and Viognier Restaurant. 
It appears the ERIS City Directory listings do not include all historical listings and addresses for 
the Site. According to the Closure Report for Draeger’s (EKI, 1996), the Site land use history 
detailed in the City Directory includes: 
400 South B Street (northeast corner) 
• CalPet Services Station (1927). 
• Andy’s Service Station (1932, 1941). 
• Pattison and Sollers Service Station (1947). 
• Ray’s Texaco Service (1956, 1961, 1966). 
• Mattner Gulf Service (1971). 
• Beneficial Finance Co. (1977). 
613 of 1252

--- page 614 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
20 
May 2, 2019  
446 South B Street (southeast corner) 
• Anderson’s Shell Service (1956, 1961, 1966). 
200 East 4th Avenue 
• Levy Brothers Department Store (1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1977). 
204 East 4th Avenue 
• Residence (1932, 1941). 
5.13.4.2 Surrounding Areas 
Several nearby addresses were identified in the City Directory from approximately 1936 through 
2018, non-inclusive.  
Listings indicated surrounding areas are occupied for residential and commercial use. Listings 
included the following businesses: schools, realty, banks, offices, tailors, salons, barbers, 
clothing stores, grocers, and general markets; fast food, cafes, and restaurants; carpet store, 
vacuum cleaner store, laundry, and shoe store/repair; and employment agencies, city agencies, 
contractors, travel agencies, and telecommunications. Only addresses with businesses that have 
operated for an extended period and may have handled hazardous materials products were noted 
below:  
137 East 4th Avenue 
• 2012-2018: Instyle Salon (salon). 
165 East 4th Avenue 
• 1996-2006: CA Beauty Center (beauty school). 
211 East 4th Avenue  
• 1949-1950: Casey Auto Repair.  
213 East 4th Avenue  
• 1949-1950: Bayer Auto Electric.  
215 East 4th Avenue  
• 1991: Cleaner Mark DC (cleaners).  
• 1942: SM Motor Sales.  
153 East 5th Avenue 
• 1970: Robert and Suzanne Hairstyles (hair salon). 
• 1977-1991: Hair Design Perry (hair salon). 
614 of 1252

--- page 615 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
21 
May 2, 2019  
• 1953-2006: 5th Avenue Hair Design (hair salon). 
• 2012-2018: Renew Salon (salon). 
155 East 5th Avenue  
• 2006-2012: Face and Body Studio (spa).  
• 2018: Le Juin Day Spa and Clinic (spa).  
300 East 5th Avenue  
• 2012: AAA Vacuum and Sewing (appliance service and repair).  
308 East 5th Avenue  
• 1961: Gold Star Laundry (laundry). 
In general, review of the historical city directories for nearby properties confirmed the findings 
of the environmental records review and historical documentation review. The information 
provided in the City Directory report did not reveal additional information pertaining to potential 
environmental conditions at the Site. 
 
 
615 of 1252

--- page 616 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
22 
May 2, 2019  
6. 
SITE RECONNAISSANCE 
Ms. Danielle Kerper of Geosyntec performed a reconnaissance of the Site on April 8, 2019 to 
assess the environmental conditions on and around the Site. The property owner, Mr. Richard 
Draeger, provided access and accompanied Ms. Kerper during the Site reconnaissance.  
As part of the Site reconnaissance, Geosyntec looked for evidence of the presence of hazardous 
substances used, stored, or discarded at and near the Site. Moreover, Geosyntec surveyed the Site 
for areas of disturbed or discolored soil, suspect equipment that may contain hazardous 
substances, areas of distressed vegetation, wastewater discharge areas, storage tanks/septic 
systems, waste management/disposal areas, lagoons, pits, sumps, surface water management 
areas, stained surfaces, etc.  
A summary of the Site reconnaissance is provided in Table 2 below, and locations of pertinent 
findings are depicted in Figure 2. Photographs of pertinent findings and Site features observed 
during the reconnaissance are provided in Appendix H.  
Table 2: Summary of Site Reconnaissance 
Feature or Condition 
Description 
General Site Setting 
Current and Former Property 
Usage 
200-222 East 4th Avenue is currently zoned for commercial use. The 
current Site building was constructed in 1996-1997 and is used as a 
grocery retail store and restaurant. The Site was previously occupied by 
two gasoline stations and a department store as described in Section 3.7. 
Onsite Structures 
The Site building occupies the majority of the Site with a paved parking 
area located on the western portion of the Site. The building consists of 
two stories with a mezzanine and subterranean parking garage. The 
building is approximately 65,608 ft2. The subterranean parking garage is 
approximately 47,365 ft2, the ground floor is approximately 35,400 ft2, the 
mezzanine is approximately 860 ft2, and the second floor is approximately 
29,348 ft2. As built-drawings provided by Lane are included in 
Appendix A. 
Roads and Parking Areas 
200-222 East 4th Avenue is accessed via on-street parking along East 4th 
Avenue, South B Street, and East 5th Avenue. The western portion of the 
Site includes designated paved parking spaces, as well as parking along 
South Ellsworth Avenue. Parking is also provided in the subterranean 
parking garage of the building. The building is surrounded by various 
hardscape including brick and concrete. There are vegetated spaces and 
trees located along all sides of the building. 
Potable Water Supply 
Potable water is supplied to the Site by the California Water Service, the 
local water provider for San Mateo. 
Sewage Disposal or Septic 
Systems 
Sewage disposal is to the City of San Mateo sanitary sewer at the Site.  
Interior and Exterior Observations 
Underground Storage Tanks  
No USTs were observed to be present at the Site. 
Aboveground Storage Tanks 
(ASTs) 
No ASTs were observed to be present at the Site. However, the backup 
generator contains a diesel tank within the generator. No staining was 
observed around the backup generator. 
616 of 1252

--- page 617 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
23 
May 2, 2019  
Feature or Condition 
Description 
Odors 
No odors were detected at the Site.  
Hazardous Substances or 
Petroleum Products 
Various small quantities of chemicals were observed in the subterranean 
parking garage, on the ground floor in the food preparation areas, in the 
loading dock area, and on the second floor. Chemicals were stored in open 
shelving units and cabinets. No staining was observed on the floor around 
the shelving units. Observed chemicals included janitorial supplies 
consisting of thinners (Klean Strip®, Sunny Side®, JASCO®), sealants 
(Flex Seal®, Henry Roof Leak Patch®, Through the Roof®), oils (WD-
40®), wood finishes/stains (Min-Wax Pre-Strain®, Dura Seal 
Polyurethane®, Tung Oil Finish®, Bruce Wood Cleaner®, Arbor Coat®), 
lubricants (Tri-Low Lubricant®), cleaners (Bravo Heavy Duty Low Odor 
Stripper®, Ultra High Speed Floor Finish®, Liquid Silver Pre-Soak®, 
Wrights Copper Cream®, Plain Mean Cleaner®, Sani-Blue®, Stero 
Clor®, Wiz®, Sani-Clean 2®, Magic Rinse SC®, Aqua Clear®, Neutral 
Floor Cleaner®, Goo Gone®) soaps, detergents, and paints.  
Boxes of refrigerant (National Refrigerant 507®) were observed next to 
the refrigeration system on the second floor. Tanks observed in the system 
contain reserve refrigerant for times of high demand. 
A back up emergency generator is present in the southwestern corner of 
the subterranean parking garage. The generator contains an aboveground 
diesel fuel tank used to power the generator. Universal waste (batteries 
and light bulbs) and hazardous waste are stored in designated areas in the 
loading dock near the compactors. A below-grade grease interceptor is 
located in the southeastern corner of the loading dock. Mr. Draeger 
indicated the grease interceptor collects grease from the kitchens located 
in the grocery store and restaurant and that it is pumped out monthly 
(Photographs 3, 4, 12, and 13, Appendix A).  
Drums and Containers (>5 
gallons) 
There were no drums and containers greater than 5 gallons in volume 
observed at the Site. 
Unidentified 
Substances/Containers 
There were no unidentified substances or containers observed during the 
Site walk.  
Transformers 
A public utility-owned transformer is located on the western side of the 
building next to the ramp down to the parking garage. No labels regarding 
PCB content or staining at the base of the transformer was observed 
(Photograph 8, Appendix A). 
Pools of Liquids 
No pools of liquid were observed at the Site. 
Pits, Ponds, or Lagoons (onsite 
and adjoining) 
Stormwater from the loading dock area and parking garage ramp drain to a 
below-grade sand/oil separator and sump pump in the parking garage. The 
sand/oil separator is used to filter stormwater prior to discharge to the 
storm drain system. According to the as-built drawings, the sump pump 
lifts the water to a storm drain at the ground floor. 
Stained Soil or Pavement  
Stained concrete was observed in multiple locations of the subterranean 
parking garage. The majority of the stains in the parking garage appear to 
be from oil drips from parked cars. White crust and staining on the walls 
of the basement appear to be associated with moisture. One stain on the 
ground in the parking garage appeared to be from releases during fire 
sprinkler system testing. (Photographs 15 and 16, Appendix A). 
Stressed Vegetation 
No stressed vegetation was observed at the Site. 
Solid Waste 
Solid waste is stored in the loading dock.  
617 of 1252

--- page 618 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
24 
May 2, 2019  
Feature or Condition 
Description 
Wastewater or Storm Water 
Discharge 
There were many floor drains observed throughout the building, including 
all food preparation areas, the restrooms, and the loading dock. According 
to Mr. Draeger, all floor drains discharge to the municipal sewer. The 
grease interceptor is also connected to the municipal sewer. 
The trench drains outside of both loading dock doors and at the base of the 
ramp to the subterranean parking garage direct stormwater to a 
below-grade sand/oil separator and sump pump in the parking garage. The 
sand/oil separator is used to filter stormwater prior to discharge to the 
storm drain system. According to Mr. Draeger, the sand/oil separator has 
not been pumped out. According to the as-built drawings, the sump pump 
lifts the water to a storm drain at the ground floor (Photographs 5, 9, 10, 
and 11, Appendix A).  
Additionally, the parking area on the western portion of the Site is graded 
to drain stormwater into three storm drains, which reportedly direct 
stormwater to the municipal stormwater collection system. There are also 
municipal storm drains along East 5th Avenue and South B Street 
(Photograph 7, Appendix A).  
Wells 
No wells were observed at the Site.  
 
 
 
618 of 1252

--- page 619 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
25 
May 2, 2019  
7. 
INTERVIEWS 
7.1 
Interview with Owner  
Mr. Richard Draeger, the property owner for 200-222 East 4th Avenue, completed a Phase 1 Site 
Assessment Questionnaire for the property (Appendix I). In the Questionnaire, Mr. Draeger 
indicated that there are household cleaners on the sales floor, but no other industrial areas or 
hazardous materials and hazardous waste storage areas. Mr. Draeger indicated there is a grease 
interceptor that is pumped out monthly, an emergency generator powered by diesel, and floor 
drains in the food preparation areas. Mr. Draeger indicated that Recology provides solid waste 
and recycling pickup, including cardboard, paper, and aluminum. Mr. Draeger indicated that 
Phase I and Phase II ESAs were previously performed for the Site.  
During the in-person interview, Mr. Draeger also described the presence of a sump pump in the 
subterranean parking garage for pumping stormwater to the storm drain system.  
7.2 
Interview with Occupant 
Mr. Richard Draeger is the property owner and owns the grocery store on the Site.  
7.3 
Interview with Local Government Officials 
Based on the information obtained via online regulatory databases, including GeoTracker and 
EnviroStor, interviews with local government officials were not deemed necessary, and 
therefore, none were conducted.  
7.4 
Interview with Others 
No other individuals were interviewed as part of this effort. 
 
 
619 of 1252

--- page 620 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
26 
May 2, 2019  
8. 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 
We have performed a Phase I ESA in conformance with the scope and limitations of the 
Standard of the Site located at 200-222 East 4th Avenue in San Mateo, California. Any 
exceptions to, or deletions from, this practice are described in Section 8.5, Data Gaps, of this 
report. 
8.1 
Recognized Environmental Conditions 
The findings revealed no evidence of RECs in connection with the Site, with the exception of the 
following:  
• Potential Groundwater Impacts from Offsite Sources: A search by ERIS of 
environmental facilities within the recommended ASTM search radius of the Site 
resulted in the identification of offsite facilities that either have operations that use 
chlorinated solvents or have open remediation cases for chlorinated solvents 
(primarily PCE and its breakdown products) in the vicinity of the Site. This facility 
includes New A-1 Cleaners at 17 East 4th Avenue. This facility is located 
approximately 965 feet to the southwest of the Site. Review of documents indicates 
that dry-cleaning operations using PCE were conducted at this facility from 
approximately 1987 to 2008 and that PCE was detected in soil and groundwater 
during an investigation conducted near this facility. These findings suggest that this 
facility represents a potential source for PCE contamination in the neighborhood. 
CSMHSA requested voluntary soil and groundwater sampling in the vicinity of the 
facility to determine if the facility released PCE to soil and groundwater. It does not 
appear the facility has prepared a work plan to conduct soil and groundwater 
sampling since no other information is available on GeoTracker as of the date of 
preparation of this Phase I ESA. Based on the lack of information regarding 
contamination in the subsurface at this property and the location hydraulically 
upgradient of the Site, the facility may impact the subsurface at the Site and is 
considered a REC for the Site. 
• Vapor Encroachment Conditions at the Site: Based on review of files for 
Wardrobe Cleaners/Park’s Wardrobe Cleaners at 333/335/344 East 4th Avenue, 
located approximately 200 feet to the northeast of the Site, soil and groundwater 
sampling at the facility identified detections of PCE and its breakdown products at 
concentrations above the ESLs. CSMHSA requested a work plan to evaluate the VOC 
concentrations in groundwater, soil, and soil vapor. On March 29, 2019, CSS 
Environmental Services issued a work plan to collect and analyze soil vapor and 
groundwater samples at Wardrobe Cleaners. This facility is located downgradient to 
the Site with respect to groundwater flow direction; however, there is a potential that 
vapors from the VOCs associated with this facility may migrate and potentially pose 
a vapor encroachment condition at the Site. Based on the open status of the facility 
and distance from the Site, there is potential for the releases from this facility to have 
impacted the subsurface at the Site; therefore, this facility is considered a REC for the 
Site.  
620 of 1252

--- page 621 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
27 
May 2, 2019  
8.2 
Historical Recognized Environmental Conditions 
The findings revealed no evidence of HRECs in connection with the property, with the exception 
of the following:  
• Soil Impacts from Past Operations: USTs and hydraulic lifts associated with two 
former gasoline service stations at the Site were removed in the last 1980s and 1990s. 
Petroleum hydrocarbon impacted soil was encountered and removed during 
excavation for the below-grade parking structure for the current building in 1996. 
Confirmation sampling indicated that no petroleum hydrocarbons were identified in 
soil and no petroleum hydrocarbons or VOCs were identified in groundwater 
following excavation of affected soils. A closure letter issued by the SMCEHS 
indicates that the Site investigation for impacted soils from past operations at the Site 
is complete and that no further investigation and/or remediation based on the results 
of the excavation activities and confirmation sampling. Based on available 
information and current land use, SMCEHS concluded that no further action related 
to soils is required. Based on the information reviewed regarding the past operations 
at the Site, Geosyntec considers these past operations an HREC. 
8.3 
Controlled Recognized Environmental Conditions 
This assessment did not identify any CRECs in connection with the Site. 
8.4 
De Minimis Conditions 
Based on current and historical activities at the Site and in the vicinity of the Site, de minimis 
conditions were identified. De minimis conditions are environmental conditions which generally 
do not present a threat to human health or the environment and that generally would not be the 
subject of an enforcement action if brought to the attention of the appropriate governmental 
agencies. Conditions determined to be de minimis are not RECs. De minimis conditions 
identified to date in relation to the Site are described below: 
• Multiple locations were observed with surficial oil staining on the concrete in the 
subterranean parking garage of the building. It appears this staining originates from 
parked cars. Therefore this represents a de minimis condition for the Site. 
8.5 
Data Gaps 
In accordance with the Standard, this section documents data gaps in the information obtained 
and reviewed as part of this Phase I ESA and discusses the associated significance. A data gap is 
defined in the Standard as being “… a lack of or inability to obtain information required by this 
practice despite good faith efforts by the environmental professional to gather such 
information.” No data gaps have been identified.  
8.6 
Exceptions and Deviations 
In performance of this Phase I ESA, Geosyntec has not identified potential exceptions or 
deviations from the Standard of practice except where noted. 
621 of 1252

--- page 622 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
28 
May 2, 2019  
8.7 
Signature by Environmental Professionals  
I declare, that to the best of my professional knowledge and belief, I meet the definition of 
Environmental Professional as defined in §312.10 of 40 CFR. 
I have the specific qualifications based on education, training, and experience to assess 
a property of the nature, history, and setting of the Site. I have developed and performed 
all appropriate inquiries in conformance with the standards and practices set forth in 
40 CFR Part 312. 
 
 
Signed by: Kimberly Brandt, P.G., C.Hg. 
Senior Geologist 
 
8.8 
Qualifications 
This Phase I Environmental Site Assessment was performed by Ms. Danielle Kerper, P.G. and 
Ms. Kimberly Brandt, P.G., C.Hg. Ms. Brandt is an Environmental Professional as defined by 
the Standard.  
 
 
622 of 1252

--- page 623 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
29 
May 2, 2019  
9. 
NON-SCOPE CONSIDERATIONS 
In accordance with Geosyntec’s scope of work for this project, “non-scope considerations,” as 
defined in the Standard were not evaluated. These are environmental issues including asbestos-
containing building materials, biological agents, cultural and historic resources, ecological 
resources, endangered species, health and safety, industrial hygiene, lead-based paint, lead in 
drinking water, mold, radon, regulatory compliance, and wetlands that are beyond the scope of a 
traditional Phase I ESA. 
 
 
623 of 1252

--- page 624 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
30 
May 2, 2019  
10. 
REFERENCES 
ASTM International. 2013. Standard E1527 13, Standard Practice for Environmental Site 
Assessments: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process. 
Antea Group. 2018. Third Quarter 2017 Semi-Annual Monitoring Report, 76 Service Station No. 
6390, 402 South Delaware Street, Santa Mateo, California. 12 January. 
California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) EnviroStor Database. Website: 
http://www.EnviroStor.dtsc.ca.gov/public/. 
California Regional Water Quality Control Board GeoTracker Database. Website: 
http://GeoTracker.swrcb.ca.gov/map/. 
County of San Mateo Health Service Agency Environmental Health Services Division 
(CSMHSA). 1997. Case Closure of Non-LUFT/Surface Soils Site Located at 200 E. 4th 
Street, San Mateo, California. 12 March. 
Department of Water Resources (DWR). 2004. California’s Groundwater Bulletin 118 – Santa 
Clara Valley Groundwater Basin, San Mateo Subbasin. 27 February. 
Environmental Risk Information Services (ERIS). 2018. Database Report, 200-222 East 4th 
Avenue, San Mateo, California. Order No. 20190327219.  
ERIS. 2019a. Database Report – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California; Order Number 
20190327219. 29 March. 
ERIS. 2019b. Physical Setting Report – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California; Order 
Number 20190327219. 27 March. 
ERIS. 2019c. Historical Aerial Report – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California; Order 
Number 20190327219. 29 March. 
ERIS. 2019d. Topographic Map Research Results – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, 
California; Order Number 20190327219. 27 March. 
ERIS. 2019e. Fire Insurance Map Research Results – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, 
California; Order Number 20190327219. 27 March. 
ERIS. 2019f. Historical Directory Report – 200-222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California; 
Order Number 20190327219. 1 April. 
Erler & Kalinowski, Inc. (EKI). 1996. Closure Report for Property Located at 200 East Fourth 
Avenue in San Mateo, California (EKI940067.02). 27 June. 
EKI. 1998. Phase I Preliminary Environmental Site Assessment Update for Property Located at 
222 East Fourth Avenue, San Mateo, California. December. 
San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board. 2019. Environmental Screening 
Levels. January. 
United States Geological Society (USGS). 2015. Quadrangle: San Mateo, California. 
624 of 1252

--- page 625 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
TABLES 
 
625 of 1252

--- page 626 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
1 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Draeger’s Market (Site) 
Draeger’s Supermarkets, Inc. 
AFC Sushi @ Draegers 
222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, 
CA 94401 
1/102-109 
2/110-112 
-- 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
FINDS/FRS 
HAZNET 
RCRA NON GEN 
DELISTED 
COUNTY 
LUST 
Numerous violations from the County of San Mateo Health Services Agency (CSMHSA) 
for documentation and labeling requirements. 
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000383296). 
 
The Site is listed in the HAZNET database under Generator EPA ID CAC001108152 for 
producing 2.0045 tons of polychlorinated biphenyls and material containing PCBs in 
1996. The source of the PCBs is likely the hydraulic lift associated with former operations 
at the Site. No other information is available. 
 
Two gasoline service stations operated at the Site, one as early as 1929 at the north corner 
(East 4th Avenue and South B Street) and one at the east corner (South B Street and East 
5th Avenue) by 1950. The Levi Brothers leased the Site in 1951, built a department store, 
and operated the business until 1985. By 1969, the service station in the east corner at 
South B Street and East 5th Avenue had been replaced by a parking lot. By 1985, the 
service station in the north corner at East 4th Avenue and South B Street had been 
replaced by a paved parking lot. USTs associated with the former gasoline service station 
at the north corner of the Site (East 4th Avenue and South B Street) were removed in 
1988. Soil sampling indicated a low concentration of TRPH at 60 mg/kg in the area of the 
excavation. Approximately 335 tons of soil associated with UST removal activities was 
excavated. In 1993, one hydraulic lift associated with the former gasoline service station 
at the east corner of the Site (East 5th Avenue and South B Street) was removed. TPH 
concentrations were detected in soil around the excavation and approximately 20 cubic 
yards were removed. Sampling performed at the Site in 1994 indicated petroleum 
hydrocarbon impacts in soil and groundwater, as well as a detection of lead in one 
groundwater sample. EKI performed a Phase II ESA in 1995. Results from sampling 
activities indicated low concentrations of unidentified petroleum hydrocarbons in soil and 
water samples. 
626 of 1252

--- page 627 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
2 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Draeger’s Market (Site) 
Draeger’s Supermarkets, Inc. 
AFC Sushi @ Draegers 
222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, 
CA 94401 
1/102-109 
2/110-112 
-- 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
FINDS/FRS 
HAZNET 
RCRA NON GEN 
DELISTED 
COUNTY 
LUST 
In 1996, the Levy Brothers Department Store was demolished, and construction began on 
the Draeger’s Market building. Soil impacted by petroleum hydrocarbons were 
encountered in the north corner of the Site (East 4th Avenue and South B Street) during 
excavation for the below-grade parking structure. Impacted soil was excavated and 
confirmation sampling did not identify the presence of petroleum hydrocarbons that 
would warrant further investigative or remedial action. In addition, no petroleum 
hydrocarbons or volatile organic compounds were identified in groundwater at the Site. 
 
CSMHSA issued a closure letter in 1997 stating that the site investigation for the 
impacted surface soils from past operations at the site is complete. Based on available 
information, including current land use, no further action related to the surface soils is 
required.  
 
Based on the information reviewed regarding the past operations at the Site, the impacts 
from past operations are considered an HREC. 
1X B Street Partnership 
400 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94063 
3/112-113 
14.19ft North 
HIST MANIFEST 
HAZNET 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Talbots Cyclery of San Mateo Inc 
dba Talbot’s Cyclery 
415 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
4/114 
30.73ft NNE 
FINDS/FRS 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000422172). Based on this information, 
the property is not considered a REC. 
Beiser Survivor Trust dated Feb 17, 
2010, Bruce Beiser, Trustee 
401 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
5/115 
31.66ft North 
HAZNET 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Talbots 
445 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
6/116 
32.27ft NE 
HAZNET 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Lorenzo Frescat 
225 E 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
7/118 
53.44ft NNW 
HAZNET 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Mark J Cleaner DC 
215 E 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
9/121 
55.30ft WNW 
HAZNET 
HIST MANIFEST 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
627 of 1252

--- page 628 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
3 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Wheel Works #122149 
Wheel Works #8216 
Howard Tire 
521 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
10/122-128 
116.27ft ESE 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO LOP 
RCRA NON GEN 
Numerous violations issued from CSMHSA are included in the ERIS report, but none 
related to spilled material.  
 
A leaking UST is noted with case type indicated as soil only. The status is listed as Case 
Closed and no other information is available.  
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000365225). 
 
Based on listed contamination only in soil and closure status, this property has low 
potential to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
628 of 1252

--- page 629 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
4 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Wardrobe Cleaners 
Park’s Wardrobe Cleaners 
344 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
333 E 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
335 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
333 and 335 East 4th Avenue 
11/129 
12/130 
14/131-137 
21/148 
121.09ft NNE 
130.39ft NNE 
219.16ft NNE 
296.34ft NNE 
ENVIROSTOR 
EMISSIONS 
DRYCLEANERS 
FED 
DRYCLEANERS 
RCRA NON GEN 
CLEANUP SITES 
Dry cleaning operations at this property (Envirostor ID 41720094) began in 1995. The 
facility currently located at 335 E. 4th Avenue, but was located at 333 E 4th Avenue 
sometime prior to 1995. Dry cleaning operations included daily PCE use according to a 
DTSC facility screening form dated 15 September 2003. No major violations or reports of 
releases or spills have been reported for this facility. According to a memo dated 15 April 
2005, the facility owner indicated that dry cleaning operations occurred offsite and that no 
hazardous substances were stored or generated onsite. DTSC issued a No Action 
Determination in April 2005 on the basis that the likelihood of release at this property 
based on past uses is minimal. However, the GeoTracker listing (ID T10000009149) 
indicates that PCE detected in groundwater downgradient of this facility at a fuel leak 
case led to an investigation of dry cleaning facilities. According to the Regulatory 
Activities section, CSMHSA requested a work plan to assess soil and groundwater to 
determine if solvent releases at the cleaners was responsible for the solvents in the 
groundwater of the surrounding neighborhood. According to a letter dated 14 July 2016 
by CSS Environmental Services, Inc., the results of voluntary soil and groundwater 
sampling at the property indicated a mix of VOCs at the property, including PCE and 
PCE breakdown products at very low concentrations. A signed Remedial Action 
Agreement dated 11 October 2018 states that a discharge of PCE appears to have 
occurred at the property. A letter dated 4 February 2019 from CSMHSA requests a 
workplan to evaluate the VOC concentrations in groundwater, soil, and soil vapor to be 
submitted. The property is listed as OPEN - SITE ASSESSMENT AS OF 10/4/2018. 
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000292758). 
 
This facility is located cross-gradient to the Site with respect to groundwater flow 
direction; however, the facility may potentially pose a vapor intrusion risk to the Site. 
Based on the open status of the facility and distance from the Site, there is potential for 
this listing to have impacted the subsurface at the Site, therefore, this facility is considered 
a REC for the Site. 
Taqueria Los Primos 
376 Ellsworth, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
13/131 
137.86ft West 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Pizza My Heart San Mateo 
140 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
15/138 
18/142 
235.46ft WSW 
268.26ft WSW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
CERS HAZ 
Numerous violations issued from CSMHSA, but none related to spilled material. Based 
on this information, the property is not considered a REC. 
629 of 1252

--- page 630 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
5 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Gramercy on the Park Condos 
555 Laurel Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
16/139 
259.22ft South 
EMISSIONS 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Union Pacific Property 
5th Avenue and S. Railroad Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
17/141 
263.56ft ENE 
CLEANUP SITES 
This facility (GeoTracker ID T10000009003) is currently used as a storage yard for 
lumber and construction debris. A Phase I and Limited Phase II Environmental 
Assessment Report dated 17 July 1997 by Subsurface Consultants, Inc. states that due to 
historical facility use at the property and the presence of an adjacent electrical substation 
since the 1950s, soil and groundwater sampling was conducted in June 1997. Sampling 
results from the upper two feet of soil at the property indicate relatively low 
concentrations of petroleum hydrocarbons. Groundwater was not found to be impacted. 
The status of the property is listed as INFORMATIONAL ITEM AS OF 7/25/1997 
 
Based on minimal extent of petroleum hydrocarbon impacts to the soil only, there is low 
potential for this property to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not 
considered a REC. 
Public Chargers 
311 S Ellsworth Avenue, San Mateo, 
CA 94401 
19/147 
278.12ft 
WNW 
ALT FUELS 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Howard Tire 
521 B, San Mateo, CA 94402 
20/147 
294.61ft ESE 
LUST 
Howard Tire (T0608100272): The potential media of concern listed for this facility is 
soil. Listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 4/20/1990. No other information 
available on GeoTracker. 
 
Based on listed contamination only in soil and closure status, there is low potential for 
this property to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
PG&E: Beresford Substation 
South Claremont Street, Southeast of 
East 5th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
22/149 
305.76ft ENE 
CERS HAZ 
In 2017 a release of PCB-oil occurred. PG&E excavated the PCB-oil impacted soil and 
on 18 September 2017, a soil confirmation sample was from the excavation. The PCB 
concentration in the soil sample was18.6 parts per million (ppm). CSMHSA reviewed 
the data from PG&E cleanup.  
 
Based on the confirmation sample results, there is a low potential for this property to 
have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
Gyu Kaku 
329 Ellsworth, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
23/153 
305.79ft WNW SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
630 of 1252

--- page 631 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
6 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Downtown Central Parking Garage 
315 Ellsworth, San Mateo, CA 
94403 
24/153 
348.66ft WNW SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
San Mateo Artistic Iron Works 
317 6th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
25/154-157 
392.87ft ESE 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
Numerous violations issued from CSMHSA, but none related to spilled material. Based on 
this information, the property is not considered a REC. 
 European Car Care 
 316 6th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
26/158-163 
407.35ft ESE 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
Numerous violations issued from CSMHSA, but none related to spilled material. As of 
December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000354407). Based on this information, 
the property is not considered a REC. 
Kelly Moore Paint Co 
Good Year Tire Store, Former 
Kelly Moore Paint Co, Inc. 
616 South B Street, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
27/164-168 
40/188 
409.51ft SE 
540.9ft SE 
CERS HAZ 
DELISTED 
COUNTY 
RCRA NON GEN 
LUST 
This facility (GeoTracker ID T0608166129) lists a release of Stoddard solvent/mineral 
spirits/distillates to soil. Excavation began in 1992. The facility is listed as COMPLETED 
- CASE CLOSED AS OF 6/24/1998. No other information is available. 
 
There are numerous violations listed from CSMHSA for documentation requirements.  
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000333634). 
 
Based on the closure status there is low potential for this property to have impacted the 
subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC.  
Aaron Brother #221  
Aaron Brothers #0221 
180 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
29/170 
421.20ft WNW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000407516). Based on this information, 
the property is not considered a REC. 
Walgreens #3296 
Walgreens 3296 
191 E 3rd Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
30/171-176 
430.61ft WNW 
CERS HAZ 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA CESQG 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000324266). Based on this information, 
the property is not considered a REC. 
Ritz Camera 
150 3rd, San Mateo, CA 94402 
33/182 
466.75ft WNW SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Ken Griffin Auto 
612 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94402 
35/185 
470.24ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property 
is not considered a REC. 
631 of 1252

--- page 632 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
7 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
The Stratford 
601 Laurel Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
37/186 
491.26ft SSE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000413475). Based on this information, 
the property is not considered a REC. 
Pacific Performance 
608 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94401 
38/187 
 496.06ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
 Stallings Painting 
 628 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94402 
39/187 
508.63ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Lazertouch Inc 
44 E Fourth Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
47/200 
629.40ft WSW 
RCRA SQG 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAD983672270). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Rubio’s Restaurants Inc. Store 265 
38 E 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
50/204 
648.36ft WSE 
DELISTED HAZ 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Deiters German Car Repair Inc 
309 7th, San Mateo, CA 94401 
52/205 
655.02ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Peninsula Automotive Clinic 
Bacey Automotive 
317 7th, San Mateo, CA 94401 
53/205-206 
657.01ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000371515). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Palm Avenue Motors Auto Repair 
Bch Automotive 
Doctor Wrench 
Palm Ave Motors Auto Repair 
308 7th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401  
54/207-208 
666.40ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000239830). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Callendar Associates 
311 7th, San Mateo, CA 94401 
55/209 
668.09ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Haag N Haag 
Kaffeehaus 
92 3rd, San Mateo, CA 94401 
60/215 
697.64ft West 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
632 of 1252

--- page 633 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
8 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Lesley Towers LLC 
Park Towers 
700 Laurel, San Mateo, CA 94401 
63/217 
731.63ft SSE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Grape & Grain 
227 San Mateo, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
64/217 
731.91ft WNW SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
007 Motorsport 
704 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94401 
66/218 
765.01ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Autotech Motor Service 
601 S Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
72/227 
776.56ft East 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000045411). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Mbz Solutions 
615 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
79/232 
806.92ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Autotronics 
New Look Auto Body 
C3 Car Fix 
New Look Auto Body & Paint 
609 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
80/233-239 
809.49ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
EMISSIONS 
RCRA SQG 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAD982336786). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Tong Lee Auto Service 
708 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94402 
82/244 
814.13ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Chong Qing Ren Jia 
Pierre’s Express Chang Chinese 
211 San Mateo, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
83/244-245 
814.47ft WNW SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Auto Tech Motor Services 
601 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
86/246 
826.30ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Rubio’s Restaurant Inc. Store 265 
38 4th, San Mateo, CA 94401 
89/247 
835.72ft SW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
633 of 1252

--- page 634 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
9 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Eurasian Auto Repair 
As Auto Service 
Commercial Property 
635 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
91/249 
95/263-264 
854.06ft East 
880.98ft East 
RCRA NON GEN  
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000334760). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Precision Auto Care 
639 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
94/262 
871.37ft East 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000379201). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Sibbys Cupcakery 
716 Railroad, San Mateo, CA 94401 
96/264 
897.08ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Draper University 
44 E 3rd Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
97/264 
897.24ft WSW 
EMISSIONS 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Izmirian Roofing & Sheet Metal 
207 S Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
99/287 
915.24ft North 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
SANMATEO LOP 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Eurocraft Auto Body LLC 
Eurocraft Autobody 
Hansons Technology 
649 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
102/288-
293 
105/305 
922.22ft East 
934.31ft East 
EMISSIONS 
RCRA NON GEN 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000271737). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
634 of 1252

--- page 635 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
10 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Retail Buildings 
33-43 East 3rd Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
103/294 
112/312 
924.41ft WSW 
965.20ft WSW 
CLEANUP SITES 
DELISTED 
COUNTY 
This facility (GeoTracker ID SL0608122639) lists a release of PCE to soil reported in 
December 2005. The Environmental Case Closure Summary Report by RRM dated 11 
May 2006 stated that two dry cleaners operated at the location from approximately 1954 
to 1991. Soil samples collected from borings in December 1995 contained detectable 
concentrations of PCE ranging from 0.0015 to 0.018 mg/kg. Acetone was also found in 
the soil samples. Groundwater samples collected from borings installed in January 2006 
contained detectable concentrations of PCE, TCE, and cis-1,2-DCE at maximum 
concentrations of 7.1, 25, and 76 µg/L, respectively. RRM concluded that the primary 
sources of PCE, TCE, cis-1,2-DCE, and acetone were the former dry cleaning 
operations. Operations ceased in 1991 and all dry cleaning equipment has been removed 
from the facility. Analytical data for soil and groundwater samples collected from the 
facility indicate that the spill volume and spill duration was relatively small and 
groundwater flow rates are relatively low. The low concentrations of PCE indicate that 
significant degradation of PCE has already occurred. CSMHSA issued a closure letter 
and summary on 18 May 2007 confirming completion of facility investigation and 
remedial action activities for the release of PCE at the facility and indicated that the 
water quality objectives of the SFBRWQCB have been satisfied but an unknown 
quantity of residual VOC-impacted soil and/or groundwater remain in the subsurface. 
The County must be notified should excavation or development of the property be 
proposed that may encounter impacted soil and/or groundwater. The facility is listed as 
COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 5/18/2007. 
 
Based on the closure status, this property has low potential to have impacted the 
subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
C3 Auto Inc 
Be-2 Auto Service Inc 
Prestige Autoworks 
315 8th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
106/306-
307 
937.03ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000408591). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
A Auto Service 
Aps Enterprises, Inc 
A’s Auto 
635–639 S Claremont St, San Mateo, 
CA 94402 
107/308 
940.66ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
CLEANUP SITES 
A’s Auto facility is listed in GeoTracker (ID T10000008978) with a release of waste oil 
to groundwater and soil in June 1997. According to the following facility history: Waste 
oil UST was closed in place in December 1988 and soil samples were not collected. In 
1997, soil and groundwater samples were collected onsite. UST removed July 1997 and 
impacted soil removed to approximately 8 ft below ground surface. Facility listed as 
INFORMATIONAL ITEM AS OF 6/1/2016. 
 
Based on removal of impacted soil, the distance and cross gradient (with respect to 
groundwater flow) direction from Site, this property has low potential to have impacted 
the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
635 of 1252

--- page 636 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
11 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Blue Ribbon Cleaners 
37 East Third Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
22 2nd Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
110/310 
166/481-
487 
943.08ft WSW 
1184.25ft West 
DRYCLEANERS 
RCRA SQG 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
DRYCLEANERS 
EMISSIONS 
FED 
DRYCLEANERS 
RCRA SQG 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with these facilities (EPA IDs CAD981621493 and CA0000381822).  
 
Based on the lack of documented spills and distance from the Site, this property has low 
potential to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
Peninsula Pump & Equipment Inc 
Hansons Mercedes Technology 
Hawkins Co 
The Hawkins Co 
Peninsula Pump & Equipment 
713 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
111/311-
312 
134/391-
397 
948.91ft East 
1034.01ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
EMISSIONS 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with these facilities (EPA IDs CAL000395643 and CAL000362872). 
Based on this information, the property is not considered a REC. 
A-1 Cleaners 
New A-1 Cleaners 
A 1 Cleaners 
17 East 4th Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
114/329 
115/330-
340 
966.41ft WSW 
966.91ft WSW 
CLEANUP SITES 
DRYCLEANERS 
EMISSIONS 
FED 
DRYCLEANERS 
RCRA NON GEN 
RCRA SQG 
ERIS report notes that the facility is under investigation. A letter dated 26 July 2016 
from CSMHSA on GeoTracker (ID T10000009380) states that investigation of a nearby 
gasoline release (402 South Delaware Street) has sufficient information to indicate the 
source of PCE and breakdown products discovered in soil and groundwater samples may 
have originated at this facility, located upgradient from the gasoline release case 
location. Two additional dry cleaners located downgradient of this facility have 
concentrations of PCE and breakdown products detected in groundwater. Several utilities 
nearby could act as a preferential pathway for contaminant migration. Historical review 
indicates that dry cleaning operations using PCE were conducted at this facility from 
approximately 1987 to 2008. These findings suggest that this facility represents a 
potential source for PCE contamination in the neighborhood. CSMHSA requested 
voluntary soil and groundwater sampling in the vicinity of the facility to determine if the 
facility released PCE to soil and groundwater. It does not appear the facility has prepared 
a work plan to conduct soil and groundwater sampling since no other information is 
available.  
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000229704). 
 
Based on the lack of information regarding contamination in the subsurface at this 
property and the location hydraulically-upgradient of the Site, the property may impact 
the subsurface at the Site and is considered a REC. 
636 of 1252

--- page 637 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
12 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
126-2nd Avenue LLC 
126 2nd Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
117/342 
975.79ft West 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAC002973741). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Carl’s Dry Cleaners 
Twinkle Cleaners 
Carl’s Cleaners 
Carl’s Cleaner 
Carl’s Fine Dry Cleaning 
Twinkle Cleaner 
801 South B St, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
118/343-
352 
121/362 
975.94ft SE 
988.54ft SE 
DELISTED 
COUNTY 
DRYCLEANERS 
EMISSIONS 
FED 
DRYCLEANERS 
RCRANON GEN 
RCRA SQG 
CLEANUP SITES 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000342697).  
  
This dry cleaning facility (GeoTracker ID T1000011323) lists a release of PCE to 
groundwater discovered in March 2007. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment by 
John Carver Consulting dated 27 May 2014 states that since original construction in the 
late 1940s, the two story building at the facility has been a restaurant, office, and dry 
cleaning business. Two soil samples collected below the slab of the building in 2002 
resulted in non-detect concentrations for VOCs. Groundwater samples collected 
approximately 100 feet east of the property in 2007 detected PCE at a maximum 
concentration of 500 µg/L. In an email dated 21 February 2018, CSMHSA determines 
that the soil sample collection and analysis from 2002 did not evaluate all pathways 
where PCE can be released to the environment and the groundwater samples collected in 
2007 were from borings rather than monitoring wells. The facility’s consultant submitted 
a rebuttal in March 2018 and the County responded via a letter the same month 
indicating that the facility will need to undergo remedial action. An email 
correspondence dated 18 April 2018 from CSMHSA indicates the case is being 
transferred to DTSC for corrective action oversight. The facility is listed as OPEN - 
SITE ASSESSMENT AS OF 2/20/2018. 
 
This facility is located cross gradient with respect to groundwater flow direction and 
unlikely to impact the Site. Therefore, this facility is not considered a REC for the Site.  
Alfredos Auto Repair Shop 
B 2 Autobody Repair 
B-2 Auto Body 
The Garage 
Alfredo Auto Repair 
316 8th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
119/354-
360 
138/402 
978.54ft ESE 
1054.44ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
EMISSIONS 
SANMATEO LOP 
RCRA NON GEN 
LUST 
The Garage (T0608100540): This facility lists a release of gasoline to groundwater 
reported in March 1992. The facility is listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS 
OF 6/2/1998. No other information is available. 
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000388448). 
 
Based on closure status and distance to the Site, this property has low potential to have 
impacted the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
637 of 1252

--- page 638 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
13 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Atlas Electric Co Inc 
Atlas Electric Co. Inc. 
811 So “B Street Ninth Ave, San 
Mateo, CA 94401 
123/364 
145/426 
998.24ft SE 
1087.11ft SE 
HHSS 
HIST TANK 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Hillsdale Transmission 
San Mateo Transmission #022814 
San Mateo Transmission Ctr 
707 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
124/364-
365 
127/371 
999.98ft East 
1011.32ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000284136). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Aragon Veterinary Clinic 
819 S B St, San Mateo, CA 94401 
129/373 
1016.08ft SE 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000257829). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Spectrum Photo 
18 3rd, San Mateo, CA 94401 
141/411 
1063.42ft 
WSW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Worldpac 9738 San Mateo 
733 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
142/412 
1070.75ft East 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Vitalant Ca Peninsula 
48 2nd, San Mateo, CA 94401 
144/425 
1077.99ft West SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
638 of 1252

--- page 639 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
14 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Chevron 9-0312 
2 East 3rd Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94401 
147/428 
1092.97ft 
WSW 
LUST 
This facility (GeoTracker ID T0608100123) lists a release of gasoline to groundwater 
reported in May 1984 (most likely this should be May 1986). A leak was detected in the 
10,000-gallon gasoline UST in May 1986. Hydrocarbons were detected in soil samples 
collected in April 1988 in the vicinity of the USTs. Benzene was detected in 
groundwater samples during the same sampling event. The groundwater plume was 
further delineated in November 1988 and free product was observed. A soil vapor 
extraction (SVE) system was installed and operated between April 1992 and May 1993. 
Free product was periodically hand-bailed between 1990 and 1997 for a total removal of 
33 pounds. The former Chevron service station was demolished in 1996, when four fuel 
USTs (three 10,000-gallon gasoline and one 10,000-gallon diesel), one waste oil UST 
(1,000-gallon capacity), and two hoists were removed. Approximately 700 cubic yards of 
soil was excavated, according to the Cambria Corrective Action Plan dated 11 January 
2000. Cambria concluded that the hydrocarbon-affected soil in the vadose zone has been 
adequately assessed, is limited in extent, and does not exceed 100 mg/kg TPH. Cambria 
proposed to monitor the dissolved-phase hydrocarbon concentrations at the facility for 
three years. On 13 August 2004, Cambria requested case closure on behalf of 
ChevronTexaco based on conditions meeting the SFBRWQCB definition of a low-risk 
fuel facility. The groundwater monitoring wells onsite were destroyed in December 2004 
and January 2005. CSMHSA issued a closure letter summary dated 24 January 2005 
confirming completion of facility investigation and corrective action for the USTs 
formerly located at this facility. The summary indicates that contaminated soil and 
groundwater remain in the subsurface at the facility and the County must be notified if 
development which may impact soil or groundwater occurs in the future. The facility is 
listed as COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 1/24/2005. 
 
Based on the closure status, localized petroleum hydrocarbon impacts, and distance to 
the Site, this property has low potential to have impacted the subsurface at the Site and is 
not considered a REC. 
639 of 1252

--- page 640 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
15 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
A & A Beacon 
El Camino & Third Corporation 
John Lang’s 3rd Ave Service 
A & A Beacon 
Former A and A Beacon Station 
221 S El Camino Real, San Mateo, 
CA 94401 
155/448-
457 
170/513-
514 
1149.74ft 
WSW 
1215.98ft 
WSW 
DEED 
LUST 
EMISSIONS 
HHSS 
HIST TANK 
SANMATEO LOP 
RCRA SQG 
This facility (GeoTracker ID T0608100514) lists a release of gasoline to groundwater 
reported in October 1992. According to the facility history, the facility was a gasoline 
service station from 1920 until 1992. In October 1992 three gasoline USTs (5,000, 7,500, 
and 10,000 gallons) and one 275 gallon waste oil UST were removed. The tanks were 
found to have leaked and approximately impacted soil and groundwater beneath the 
facility. An SVE system operated between June 1995 and December 1996 and a 
hydrogen peroxide solution was injected into the subsurface to oxidize the fuel. A dual 
phase extraction (DPE) system was installed in 2003 and soil vapor and groundwater 
were extracted from November 2003 until February 2004. CSMHSA issued a case 
closure letter dated 4 February 2015 confirming the completion of a facility investigation 
and corrective action for the USTs formerly located at the facility. Although facility 
closure was granted, a small amount of petroleum hydrocarbon-affected soil and 
groundwater may exist near the former USTs. Most of the lead-affected soil was 
discovered at the facility which was excavated and removed from the facility. A UST 
was discovered at the facility in June 2016 during grading activities. The UST was 
removed, and chemically impacted soil was excavated. The facility is listed as 
COMPLETED - CASE CLOSED AS OF 2/4/2015. 
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAR000183079). 
 
Based on cleanup efforts related to petroleum hydrocarbon impacts, localized impacts of 
lead in soil, and the case closure status, this property has low potential to have impacted 
the subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
Curusis Investments Ltd 
Westlake Realty Group 
520 El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
158/468-
469 
1159.59ft SW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAC002978292). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Romel 400 Secr, LLC 
Glenborough Realty Trust Inc 
Glenborough 400 Ecr Llc 
Café 400 
Glenborough Realty Trust 
400 S El Camino Real, San Mateo, 
CA 94402 
159/470-
473 
1165.62ft SW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
EMISSIONS 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
640 of 1252

--- page 641 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
16 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
All Car Auto Painting & Body 
Repair 
817 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
161/477 
1176.73ft ESE 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000407364). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Randy Pagan 
706 S Delaware, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
162/478 
1176.96ft East 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAC002978953). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
El Camino & 3rd Corp 
UST Site 
221 El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
164/480 
1180.09ft 
WSW 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Westlake DMD, LLC 
520 S El Camino Real, Suite 700, 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
165/480 
1182.10ft SW 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAC002975959). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
Residence 
219 9th, San Mateo, CA 94402 
171/515 
1218.41ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Mitchell Bros 
311 9th, San Mateo, CA 94401 
174/525 
1229.96ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
All Car Auto Painting & Body 
Repair (San Mateo)  
817 Claremont, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
175/526 
1230.74ft ESE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
No violations or indications of historical spills. Based on this information, the property is 
not considered a REC. 
Big E Automotive 
310 9th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401 
182/538-
539 
1254.28ft SE 
SANMATEO 
CUPA 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000218767). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
San Mateo Tire and Brake 
829 S Claremont St, San Mateo, CA 
94402 
183/540 
1255.14ft ESE 
RCRA NON GEN 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CAL000257039). Based on this 
information, the property is not considered a REC. 
641 of 1252

--- page 642 ---
Table 1: Summary of Properties within 0.25 Mile of the Site (Upgradient or Cross-Gradient) 
17 
 
Site Name and Address 
ERIS 
Map ID/ 
Page No. 
Distance 
and 
Direction 
Databases 
Summary 
Mobil 10-FTX/BP #11197 
Unocal 76 
Atlantic Richfield Company C/O 
Stantec 
Atlantic Richfield Company C/O 
Mobil Service Station 
Mobil 10-FTXBP #11197 
Tosco Northwest Co No 11197 
230 S El Camino Real, San Mateo, 
CA 94401 
188/568 
191/568 
194/581-
584 
1282.58ft 
WSW  
1297.29ft 
WSW 
1310.12ft 
WSW 
UST 
DELISTED HAZ 
EMISSIONS  
HHSS 
HIST TANK 
SANMATEO LOP 
RCRA SQG 
This facility (GeoTracker ID T0608100338) lists a release of gasoline to groundwater 
reported in December 1989. Since 1989, multiple phases of investigation and 
remediation have been conducted at the facility. Affected soil was excavated and a DPE 
system operated from 2009 to 2013. To assess potential soil vapor risks, soil vapor 
sampling was conducted. Based on the results of the investigations and remedial 
activities conducted at the facility, CSMHSA issued a case closure memorandum dated 
31 October 2018 stating that the facility satisfies the closure criteria stipulated in the 
SWRCB’s Low-Threat Petroleum Closure Policy. CSMHSA issued a letter dated 7 
February 2019 stating that staff are recommending case closure for the petroleum release 
at the facility. The facility is listed as OPEN- ELIGIBLE FOR CLOSURE AS OF 
8/30/2018. 
 
As of December 2018, there are no Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (violation) 
records associated with this facility (EPA ID CA0001037803). 
 
Based on the recommendation of case closure, localized petroleum hydrocarbon impacts, 
and distance from the Site, this property has a low potential to have impacted the 
subsurface at the Site and is not considered a REC. 
 
642 of 1252

--- page 643 ---
Draft Phase I ESA 
FIGURES 
 
643 of 1252

--- page 644 ---
P:\CAD_GIS\Projects\Prometheus_WR2671\MXDs\Figure 1 Site Location Map.mxd 4/15/2019 8:42:45 AM 
200 East 4th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California
Site Location Map
Figure
1
 
WR2671-01
April 2019
Legend
Site Location
Sources: Esri, HERE, Garmin, USGS, Intermap,
INCREMENT P, NRCan, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China
(Hong Kong), Esri Korea, Esri (Thailand), NGCC, ©
OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User
Community
San Jose Metro Area
Oakland
San Francisco
Sacramento
Concord
Stockton
Fremont
Vallejo
Napa
San Rafael
Lodi
Santa Rosa
Santa Cruz
Salinas
Antioch
Fairfield
Livermore
Gilroy
Union City
Vacaville
C a l i f ornia
Site Location
644 of 1252

--- page 645 ---
P:\CAD_GIS\Projects\Prometheus_WR2671\MXDs\San Mateo\Figure 2 Site Layout Map.mxd 4/16/2019 7:26:29 AM 
200 East 4th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California
Site Layout Map
0
20
40
10
Feet
Figure
2
 
WR2671-01
April 2019
Legend
Storm Drain
Trench Drain
Grease Interceptor (Parking
Garage)
Loading Dock
Recycling, Hazardous Waste, and
Solid Waste Storage
Sand/Oil Interceptor and Sump
Pump (Parking Garage)
Approximate Site Boundary
Service Layer Credits: © 2019 Microsoft Corporation © 2019
DigitalGlobe ©CNES (2019) Distribution Airbus DS
Loading Dock
Recycling, Hazardous Waste, 
and Solid Waste Storage
Gas Connection
Sand/Oil Interceptor and 
Sump Pump (Parking Garage)
South Ellsworth Ave.
East 4th Ave.
Transformer/
Electrical Connection
Water Connection
Grease Interceptor
(Parking Garage)
Diesel Emergency Generator 
(Parking Garage)
Fire Hydrant
East 5th Ave.
South B Street
645 of 1252

--- page 646 ---
P:\CAD_GIS\Projects\Prometheus_WR2671\MXDs\San Mateo\Figure 3 Documented Facilities Map.mxd 5/2/2019 7:13:17 AM 
200 East 4th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California
Facilities with Documented or 
Potential Releases of Chemicals to Soil 
and Groundwater within 0.25 Miles 
0
80
160
40
Feet
Figure
3
 
WR2671-01
May 2019
Legend
Approximate Site Boundary
Service Layer Credits: © 2019 Microsoft Corporation © 2019
DigitalGlobe ©CNES (2019) Distribution Airbus DS
Blue Ribbon Cleaners, 
(37 East 3rd Ave and 22 2nd Avenue)
Assumed Groundwater Flow Direction
Sunrise Cleaners
(233 Baldwin Avenue)
R NU IT Cleaners 
(200 East 2nd Avenue)
Wardrobe Cleaners
335 East 4th Avenue
New A-1 Cleaners
(17 East 4th Avenue)
646 of 1252

--- page 647 ---
1371 OAKLAND BOULEVARD, SUITE 200 – WALNUT CREEK, CA 
 
 
 
 
 
July 7, 2021 
 
Mr. Marcus Gilmore 
Lane Partners  
644 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor 
Menlo Park, California 94025 
 
Subject: 
Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report 
 
 
222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
Dear Mr. Gilmore: 
RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc., (RMD) has prepared this Pre-Construction Site Investigation 
Report (Investigation Report) describing recent investigation activities for the property located 
at 222 East 4th Avenue in San Mateo California (the Site; Figure 1). A proposal by RMD dated 
February 17, 2021 outlined the soil and groundwater investigation presented in this Investigation 
Report. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA; May 2, 2019, Geosyntec Consultants) 
indicated potential soil vapor or groundwater impacts from offsite drycleaner sources.  In 
addition, the ESA documented a historical REC related to a former gasoline service station at 
the Site.  This soil and groundwater investigation was designed based on discussions with Lane 
Partners to assess Site conditions before redevelopment of the Site begins. 
The Site background, investigation objectives, scope of work, and results are provided in the 
sections below. 
SITE BACKGROUND 
The Subject Property consists of four parcels totaling approximately 1.1 acres north of East Fifth 
Avenue and west of South B Street in San Mateo, California.  The Subject Property is currently 
developed with a Draeger’s Market, with a one-level subsurface parking garage.  Redevelopment 
plans consist of demolition of the existing structure and construction of a 5-story, mixed use (office, 
residential, and retail) building with 2 levels of below-grade parking.  The footprint of the planned 
structure will encompass the entire property boundary.  A Phase I ESA dated May 2, 2019 was 
provided to RMD for consideration in development of our sampling plan.  The Phase I included as-
built drawings of the current structure.  During our review of the Phase I, drawings, and general 
knowledge of the area, RMD noted the following observations: 
647 of 1252

--- page 648 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 2 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
• 
Underground storage tanks (USTs) were formerly located near the northeast corner of the 
property.  The USTs were associated with two former gasoline service stations and were 
removed from the Site in the 1980’s and 1990’s. 
• 
Petroleum hydrocarbons have historically been reported in soil and groundwater beneath the 
property. 
• 
The Phase I ESA identified potential groundwater impacts from offsite sources and potential 
vapor encroachment as recognized environmental conditions (RECs). 
• 
The Phase I ESA identified soil impacts from prior on-Site operations as a gasoline service 
station as a historical REC. 
• 
A diesel emergency generator is located in the southwest corner of the subsurface parking 
garage. 
• 
Groundwater collection piping and associated trenches are located under the parking garage.  
The piping is routed to a sand and oil interceptor which discharges to the storm drain. 
• 
The storm drain and sanitary sewer laterals enter the property near the east corner.   
• 
Groundwater was expected to flow in the northeast to east direction.  Stabilized depth to 
water was expected to be approximately 28 feet below ground surface (bgs). 
RMD proposed collection of soil and groundwater samples beneath the underground parking 
garage.  With regards to soil vapor, RMD did not propose collecting soil vapor samples considering 
1) the entire site will be excavated for the construction of a 2-level parking garage and 2) it is 
presumed that the parking garage will be installed with measures to mitigate vapor intrusion concerns 
(if present), including a waterproof membrane and fresh air intake/circulation.   
SCOPE OF WORK 
Eleven soil borings were completed in the underground parking garage between March 15th and 
March 18th, 2021. Borings were advanced to depths varying between 14 and 43 ft below the 
floor of the garage. The garage floor was estimated to be approximately 12 ft below ground 
surface. Drilling activities were conducted by Gregg Drilling (Gregg), a C-57 licensed contractor, 
under the oversight of RMD personnel.  All work was performed under direction of a California 
licensed engineer.  Sampling locations are shown on Figure 1. 
Further details are provided as follows. 
PRE-FIELD ACTIVITIES 
Prior to initiating field work, RMD performed the following pre-field activities: 
• 
Marked the proposed sampling locations for Underground Service Alert (USA); 
648 of 1252

--- page 649 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 3 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
• 
Updated the Site-specific Health and Safety Plan (HASP) with task-specific job safety 
analysis (JSA) forms; 
• 
Obtained drilling permits from the San Mateo County Environmental Health Services 
Groundwater Protection Program (SMCEH; Appendix A); and 
• 
Contracted with Subdynamic Locating, Inc., to perform an underground utility survey on 
March 12, 2021 to clear the proposed drilling locations of underground utilities and other 
possible subsurface obstructions. 
SOIL BORINGS AND LOGGING 
The eleven soil borings (SB-01 through SB-11) were advanced with a direct-push hydraulic dolly 
(Ramset) drill rig fitted with a Macro-Core® sampler.  Each boring was cleared to 5 feet below 
surface using a hand auger to confirm the absence of shallow obstructions.  During hand 
augering and soil coring at each borehole, soil was visually characterized and described using 
the Unified Soil Classification System (USCS).  Soil samples were field screened for total volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs) using a handheld photoionization detector (PID).   
Beneath the 8 inches of concrete and 6 inches of 3/4" gravel typically encountered in the borings, 
the site is underlain with clayey sand with gravel to approximately 5 to 9 feet below the surface 
of the parking garage. Soils beneath that consisted of silty and sandy clays with varying amounts 
of fine gravels to the maximum depths explored in each boring.  
Groundwater was first encountered in boring SB-02 at 29.5 ft and in SB-11 at 40.5 ft below 
garage surface. Stabilized ground water was measured at 19.7 ft below garage surface in SB-02 
and 16.8 ft below garage surface in SB-11.  Groundwater was not encountered in the other 
borings.  
Petroleum odors were not observed during drilling. No significant PID readings were measured 
during the investigation. The soil types and PID readings were recorded on boring logs 
(Appendix B).   
SOIL SAMPLING 
Soil samples were collected at each boring location during hand augering and direct-push 
drilling activities.  Soil samples were collected from each boring as follows: 
• 
At borings SB-01, SB-04 to SB-06, and SB-08, samples were collected at approximately 
2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs; 
649 of 1252

--- page 650 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 4 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
• 
At borings SB-02 samples were collected at approximately 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 
20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32 feet bgs; 
• 
At boring SB-03 samples were collected at approximately 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 
feet bgs; 
• 
At borings SB-07 and SB-09 samples were collected at approximately 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 
and 14 feet bgs; 
• 
At borings SB-10 samples were collected at approximately 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 
20, 22, and 24 feet bgs; and 
• 
At borings SB-02 samples were collected at approximately 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 
20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, and 42 feet bgs. 
Soil samples were contained in acetate liners with Teflon tape or collected into laboratory-
supplied containers. Samples were then labeled, placed in a chilled cooler, and transported 
under standard chain-of-custody (COC) protocol to Pace Analytical (Pace), a State-certified 
laboratory, for the following analysis: 
• 
One composite sample comprised of all samples collected from each boring was 
analyzed for the following: 
• 
Total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) as gasoline (TPHg), TPH as diesel (TPHd), and 
TPH as motor oil (TPHmo) using USEPA Method 8015; 
• 
VOCs using USEPA Method 8260B; and 
• 
California Administrative Manual (CAM)-17 Metals using USEPA Method 6020. 
• 
Based on these composite sample results, the soluble threshold limit concentration (STLC) 
extraction test for chromium was also conducted on the composite samples from SB-01 
to SB-09, and SB-11, and Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP) testing for 
chromium was performed on a composite from boring SB-10. 
The analysis of composite samples (versus discrete samples) was selected to plan for soil 
management and expected soil offhaul during excavation during construction of the 
subterranean parking garage.  Laboratory analysis of discrete samples was not 
completed or determined to be necessary based on field observations and composite 
sample analytical results.    
650 of 1252

--- page 651 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 5 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
GRAB GROUNDWATER SAMPLING 
The soil borings were advanced to approximately 14 to 43 feet below surface.  Once each boring 
reached the target depth, temporary PVC casing with 10 feet of 0.010-inch machined-slot screen 
was installed to facilitate grab groundwater sample collection.   
Grab groundwater samples were collected at borings SB-02 and SB-1 using a clean, stainless 
steel bailer and were transferred directly into laboratory-supplied sample containers.  Borings 
SB-01, SB-04 to SB-7, SB-09, and SB-10 were left open for at least 24 hrs to allow for groundwater 
infiltration but remained dry. Grab groundwater samples were labeled, placed in a chilled cooler, 
and transported under standard COC protocol to Pace for analysis of the following: 
• 
TPHg, TPHd, and TPHmo using USEPA Method 8015; and 
• 
VOCs using USEPA Method 8260B. 
INVESTIGATION RESULTS 
SOIL 
TPH and VOC soil analytical results are summarized in Table 1.  Very low concentrations were 
reported in at least one boring of TPHg, TPHd, TPHmo, toluene, total xylenes, tetrachloroethene, 
2-butanone, and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene.  None of the concentrations were near levels which 
would characterize the soil as hazardous waste.  San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality 
Control Board (SFBRWQCB) Tier 1 Environmental Screening Levels (ESLs)1 for detected 
chemicals are included on Table 1 for reference.  Soil analytical results are at least an order of 
magnitude less than the respective Tier 1 ESL, which represents the SFBRWQCB’s most stringent 
screening level to be protective of human health and the environment.   
Metal analytical results are presented in Table 2.  For reference, Table 2 also includes Tier 1 ESLs, 
Bay Area background levels of metals in soil (Background Levels)2, and thresholds for hazardous 
waste characterization.  Key observations are summarized as follows:  
• 
Arsenic was detected above the Tier 1 ESL however was below the published background 
in all seven samples. 
 
1 San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board.  2009.  Tier 1 Environmental Screening Levels. 2019 Interim 
Final Rev. 2. 
2 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. 2009. Analysis of Background Distributions of Metals in Soil at Lawrence 
Berkeley National Laboratory, Table 5. Revised April.  For arsenic, the background concentration was based on 
Establishing Background Arsenic in Soil of the Urbanized San Francisco Bay Region (Duvergé, 2011).    
651 of 1252

--- page 652 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 6 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
• 
Vanadium was detected above the Tier 1 ESL however was below the published 
background level in all seven samples. 
• 
Chromium exceeded the threshold to require STLC in all composite samples, except for 
SB-03 and exceeded the threshold to require TCLP Analysis in composite sample SB-10.  
Based on this data, the STLC extraction test for chromium was conducted on composite 
soil samples SB-01 to SB-09, and SB-11, and the TCLP extraction test was performed on 
composite sample SB-10.  Results are included on Table 3 and indicate non-hazardous 
classification for soil disposal. 
• 
No additional metals were detected above the Tier 1 ESLs, background levels, or 
hazardous waste criteria thresholds.  
Laboratory analytical reports are included in Appendix D.  
GROUNDWATER 
Table 2 and Figure 2 summarize the grab groundwater analytical results collected from SB-02 
and SB-11.  The only constituents detected in the samples were TPHd, TPHmo, benzene, and 
chloroform.  It is noted that the laboratory included “J” flags on the results for sample SB-2.   The 
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) data are within method specified levels and the presence of 
“J” flags is not a concern with regards to the accuracy of the data.  
For reference, maximum contaminants levels for drinking water and Tier 1 ESLs (which consider 
vapor intrusion screening levels) are also included on Table 1.  TPHd exceeded the Tier 1 ESL 
(which is based on odor/nuisance) in sample SB-11 and chloroform exceeded the Tier 1 ESL 
(which is based on vapor intrusion) in sample SB-02.  As further discussion below, neither of these 
detections are expected to drive active remediation however the presence of TPHd may trigger 
additional investigation by a regulatory agency. 
The laboratory analytical report is included in Appendix D.  
INVESTIGATION DERIVED WASTE MANAGEMENT 
Investigation derived waste (IDW) consisted of soil cuttings.  IDW was stored on-Site in properly 
labeled 55-gallon drums.  Following waste characterization profiling, IDW will be disposed of in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
 
 
 
652 of 1252

--- page 653 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 7 of 9 
 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
DISCUSSION OF KEY RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS 
TPH, VOCs, and metals were not present in composite soil samples at concentrations that exceed 
regulatory action levels or background levels.  With regards to soil disposal and planning for Site 
grading, data indicated that soil beneath the Site does not fall under hazardous waste 
classification. 
Elevated concentrations of diesel hydrocarbons (TPHd) are present in groundwater in SB-11 
located along the southeast wall of the underground parking garage. Chloroform was detected 
in the groundwater boring at the northwest wall of the garage. Other chlorinated VOCs were not 
present in groundwater at levels that would require further investigation or mitigation.   
In summary, based on the sampling conducted:  
• 
Shallow soil exported off-Site during Site grading is generally expected to meet 
acceptable criteria for non-hazardous waste characterization.  However, given the 
presence of petroleum constituents in groundwater it would be prudent for Lane to 
include a contingency budget for localized soil “hot spots” which may require Class II 
and/or Class I offsite disposal.   
• 
The presence of low concentrations of chloroform in groundwater at location SB-02 is not 
expected to drive further action.  The concentration of chloroform reported is relatively 
low and is likely attributed to potable water (as a result of chlorination of organic matter 
present in raw water supplies).    
• 
The presence of TPHd in SB-11 could be from a number of sources, including the former 
fuel tanks onsite, the oil/water separator and associated piping, or the diesel emergency 
generator in the southwest portion of the garage.  While the concentration reported was 
relatively low, a regulatory agency may require Lane to delineate or verify the source of 
the TPHd reported in groundwater.  It is RMD’s opinion that given the absence of 
benzene, naphthalene, or other VOCs in groundwater, that active remediation of TPHd 
would not be required.    However, a soil and groundwater management plan would be 
required by a regulatory agency during property redevelopment.  
• 
In the event that dewatering occurs during property redevelopment, carbon treatment of 
groundwater would likely be required due to the presence of TPHd prior to discharge to 
the storm or sanitary sewer drains. 
653 of 1252

--- page 654 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 8 of 9 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CLOSING 
If you have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact Ms. Kirsten Duey at 
(925) 683-8177 or kduey@rmdes.net.
Sincerely, 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
Erin Male 
Owen Ratchye, P.E. 
Project Geologist 
Senior Engineer  
Kirsten Duey 
Principal Engineer 
ATTACHMENTS: 
Figure 1 – Site Location Map 
Figure 2 – Site Plan 
Figure 3 – TPH and VOC Concentrations in Groundwater 
Table 1 – Summary of Soil Analytical Results – TPH and Detected VOCs 
Table 2 – Summary of Soil Analytical Results – Metals 
Table 3 – Summary of Grab Groundwater Analytical Results – TPHg and Detected VOCs 
Appendix A – Drilling Permits 
Appendix B – Boring Logs 
Appendix C – Laboratory Analytical Reports 
654 of 1252

--- page 655 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
July 7, 2021 
Page 9 of 9 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
LIMITATIONS 
This document was prepared for the exclusive use of the Client for the express purpose of 
complying with a regulatory directive for environmental investigation or restoration.  RMD has 
used professional judgment to present the findings and opinions of a scientific and technical 
nature.  The opinions expressed are based on the conditions of the Site existing at the time of 
the field investigation, current regulatory requirements, and any specified assumptions.  The 
presented findings and recommendations in this document are intended to be taken in their 
entirety to assist the Client in applying their own professional judgment in making decisions 
related to the property.  No warranty or guarantee, whether expressed or implied, is made with 
respect to the data or the reported findings, observations, conclusions, and recommendations.
655 of 1252

--- page 656 ---
FIGURES
656 of 1252

--- page 657 ---
N
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
APP. BY:
DR.BY:
DATE
PROJECT NO.
EM
EC
05/2021
01-LP-001
FIGURE
1
SCALE: 1" = 100'
100
SOIL BORING AND
GRAB GROUNDWATER
SAMPLE LOCATION MAP
Property Boundary
Soil Boring and Grab
Groundwater Sample Location
Soil Boring Location
0
200
Note:  All soil borings are located beneath an
          underground parking garage
LEGEND
657 of 1252

--- page 658 ---
N
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
APP. BY:
DR.BY:
DATE
PROJECT NO.
EM
EC
05/2021
01-LP-001
FIGURE
2
SCALE: 1" = 100'
100
SUMMARY OF TPH AND VOCs
IN GROUNDWATER
MARCH 2021
Property Boundary
Soil Boring and Grab
Groundwater Sample Location
Soil Boring Location
Not detected above listed
laboratory reporting limits
Analyte concentration in
micrograms per liter (ug/L)
Shaded concentration exceeds
Tier 1 Environmental Screeening
Total Petroleum
Hydrocarbons as Gasoline
Total Petroleum
Hydrocarbons as Diesel
Total Petroleum
Hydrocarbons as Motor Oil
0
200
TPHg
TPHd
TPHmo
ND<100
367
353
Note:  All soil borings are located beneath an
          underground parking garage
LEGEND
658 of 1252

--- page 659 ---
TABLES
659 of 1252

--- page 660 ---
Table 1
Summary of Soil Analytical Results - TPH and Detected VOCs
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, California
Page 1 of 1
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.
Sample Depth
TPHg
TPHd
TPHmo
Toluene
Total Xylenes
Tetrachloroethene
2-Butanone 
(MEK)
1,2,4-Trimethyl benzene
(feet bgs)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
100
260
1,600
3.2
2.1
0.08
6.1
--
 - -
 - -
 - -
 - -
 - -
14
4,000
--
SB-01-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<0.122
1.52 J
ND<4.89
ND<0.00723
ND<0.00940
ND<0.00361
0.124 B J
ND<0.00723
SB-02-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<0.114
1.98 J
ND<4.55
0.00172 J
ND<0.00828
ND<0.00318
0.109 B J
ND<0.00637
SB-03-COMP
COMP
3/18/2021
ND<0.120
1.17 J
2.06 J
ND<0.00697
0.00223 B J
ND<0.00348
0.164 B
0.00443 B J
SB-04-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<0.122
ND<4.88
ND<4.88
ND<0.00719
ND<0.00935
0.00187 J
0.111 B J 
ND<0.00719
SB-05-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<0.124
2.02 J
ND<4.96
ND<0.00740
ND<0.00962
0.00141 J
0.110 B J
ND<0.00740
SB-06-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<0.124
0.933 J
ND<4.96
ND<0.00741
0.00261 J
0.00423
0.142 B J
0.00385 J
SB-07-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<0.121
1.50 J
ND<4.83
0.00252 J
ND<0.00921
ND<0.00354
0.0988 B J
ND<0.00708
SB-08-COMP
COMP
3/18/2021
0.0473 J
4.18 J
11.1 J
ND<0.00754 J3
0.00173 B J J3
ND<0.00377 J3
0.152 B
0.00347 B J
SB-09-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<0.115
1.12 J
ND<4.60
ND<0.00651
ND<0.00846
0.00349
0.150 B
ND<0.00651
SB-10-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<0.113
1.12 J
ND<4.54
ND<0.00635
ND<0.00825
0.00352
0.119 B J
ND<0.00635
SB-11-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<0.124
2.29 J
ND<4.96
0.00217 J
ND<0.00961
ND<0.00370
0.110 B J
ND<0.00739
Notes:
Samples for VOCs analyzed using USEPA Method 8260B and samples for TPH analyzed using USEPA Method 8015.
SFBRWQCB = San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board.
SB-01-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
ESL = Environmental Screening Level.
SB-02-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32 feet bgs.
B = The same analyte is found in the associated blank.
SB-03-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 feet bgs.
J = Estimated value.
SB-04-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
J3 = The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
SB-05-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
-- = Not analyzed.
SB-06-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
ND<0.010 = Not detected above the noted laboratory reporting limit.
SB-07-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, and 14 feet bgs.
bgs = Below ground surface.
SB-08-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
mg/Kg = Milligrams per kilogram.
SB-09-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, and 14 feet bgs.
TPHg = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons Gasoline range (C5-C12)
SB-10-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 20, 22, and 24 feet bgs.
TPHd = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons Diesel range (C12-C22)
SB-11-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, and 42 feet bgs.
TPHmo = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons Motor Oil range (C22-C40)
Note 1 Tier 1 SFBRWQCB Environmental Screening Levels. 2019 Interim Final (Rev. 2).
VOCs = Volatile Organic Compounds.
Boring ID
Date
Threshold to Require TCLP Analysis
Tier 1 ESLsNote 1
660 of 1252

--- page 661 ---
Table 2
Summary of Soil Analytical Results - Metals
 222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, California
Page 1 of 1
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.
Sample 
Depth
Antimony
Arsenic Note 4
Barium
Beryllium
Cadmium
Chromium Note 3
Cobalt
Copper
Lead
Mercury
Molybdenum
Nickel
Selenium
Silver
Thallium
VanadiumNote 4
Zinc
Chromium - 
STLC 
Extraction
Chromium -
TCLP 
Extraction
(feet bgs)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(mg/Kg)
(µg/L)
(mg/L)
11
0.067
390
5.0
1.9
160
23
180
32
13
6.9
86
2.4
25
0.78
18
340
--
--
<6.0
11
410
1.0
5.6
120
25
63
24
0.42
4.8
272
4.9
2.9
10
90
140
--
--
150
50
1,000
8.0
10
50
800
250
50
2.0
3,500
200
10
50
70
240
2,500
--
--
NV
100
2,000
NV
20
100
NV
NV
100
4.0
NV
NV
20
100
NV
NV
NV
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
5,000
5.0
SB-01-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<2.45
ND<2.45
131
0.539
0.504 J
96.6
23.2
39.8
6.25
0.0504
ND<0.611
154
1.49 J
ND<1.22
ND<2.45
66.4
48.8
137
NA
SB-02-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<2.27
2.28
108
0.391
0.478 J
93.5 J6
21.3
35.1
5.77
0.0385 J
ND<0.568
125 J6
1.65 J
ND<1.14
ND<2.27
72.7 J6
51.6
190 O1
NA
SB-03-COMP
COMP
3/18/2021
ND<2.39
0.880 J
92.6
0.285
0.117 J
46.1
15.0
17.4
5.10
0.0275 J
ND<0.598
61.0
ND<2.39
ND<1.20
ND<2.39
36.2
32.7
245
NA
SB-04-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<2.44
1.44 J
109
0.417
0.398 J
75.8
16.8
26.4
6.33
0.0404 J
ND<0.610
90.6
2.08 J
ND<1.22
ND<2.44
57.8
42.8
166
NA
SB-05-COMP
COMP
3/15/2021
ND<2.48
1.76 J
135
0.486
0.520 J
99.6
23.7
36.1
7.12
0.0456 J
ND<0.620
152
1.65 J
ND<1.24
ND<2.48
66.8
52.6
289
NA
SB-06-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<2.48
ND<2.48
107
0.377
0.324 J
73.7
15.9
24.5
5.43
0.0693
0.371 J
84.2
ND<2.48
ND<1.24
ND<2.48
50.5
34.5
345
NA
SB-07-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<2.42
1.83 J
105
0.319
0.435 J
87.3
19.1
32.6
4.49
0.0398 J
ND<0.604
104
1.90 J
ND<1.21
ND<2.42
62.3
48.6
266
NA
SB-08-COMP
COMP
3/18/2021
ND<2.51
ND<2.51
121
0.471
0.152 J
65.3
19.2
24.3
6.78
0.0377 J
ND<0.627
131 J6
ND<2.51
ND<1.25
ND<2.51
43.5
41.6
143
NA
SB-09-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<2.3
1.26 J
135
0.600
0.491 J
96.8
25.8
37.4
7.68
0.0859
ND<0.575
156
2.03 J
ND<1.15
ND<2.3
61.4
44.3
85.8 J
NA
SB-10-COMP
COMP
3/16/2021
ND<2.27
1.44 J
143
0.539
0.488 J
117
20.5
45.8
7.60
0.110
ND<0.567
171
2.19 J
ND<1.13
ND<2.27
70.8
51.0
NA
ND<0.100
SB-11-COMP
COMP
3/17/2021
ND<2.48
ND<2.48
115
0.355
0.391 J
71.2
17.0
23.2
5.17
0.0355 J
0.139 J
98.5
1.07 J
ND<1.24
ND<2.48
43.0
41.1
615
NA
Notes:
Samples analyzed using USEPA Method 6010.
bgs = Below ground surface.
SB-01-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
SFBRWQCB = San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board.
SB-02-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32 feet bgs.
ESL = Environmental Screening Level.
SB-03-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 feet bgs.
STLC = Soluble Threshold Limit Concentration.
SB-04-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
NA = Not analyzed
SB-05-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
ND<0.50 = Not detected above the noted laboratory reporting limit.
SB-06-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
mg/Kg = Milligrams per kilogram.
SB-07-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, and 14 feet bgs.
STLC = Soluble Threshold Limit Concentration.
SB-08-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, and 26 feet bgs.
J = Estimated value.
SB-09-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, and 14 feet bgs.
J6 = The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
SB-10-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,18, 20, 22, and 24 feet bgs.
SB-11-COMP = Composite of soil samples collected at 2.5, 5.5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, and 42 feet bgs.
Italicized and emboldened values exceed the Commercial ESL.
Green shaded values exceed the Tier 1 ESL however are less than the Bay Area Background Level.
Values shown in red font exceed the threshold which triggers STLC analysis for waste characterization.
Values shown in blue font exceed the threshold which triggers TCLP analysis for waste characterization.
Note 1 SFRWQCB Tier 1 Environmental Screening Levels.   2019 Interim Final Rev. 2.  
Note 3 ESL value shown is for total chromium.
Note 4 Vanadium and Arsenic concentrations were compared to the published background values for soil in the Bay Area, instead of ESLs
O1 = The analyte failed the method required serial dilution test and/or subsequent post-spike criteria. 
These failures indicate matrix interference.
Note 2 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Analysis of Background Distributions of Metals in Soil at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Table 5. Revised April 2009.  
For arsenic, the background concentration was based on the document titled Establishing Background Arsenic in Soil of the Urbanized San Francisco Bay Area (Duverge, 2011)
Threshold to Require TCLP Analysis
STLC/TCLP Hazardous Waste Classification Limit
Boring ID
Date
Tier 1 ESLs Note 1
Bay Area Background Metals in Soil Note 2
Threshold to Require STLC Analysis
661 of 1252

--- page 662 ---
Table 3
Summary of Grab Groundwater Analytical Results - TPH and Detected VOCs and PCE
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, California
Page 1 of 1
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.
Boring ID
TPHg
TPHd Note 3
TPHmo Note 4
PCE
Benzene
Chloroform
(feet bgs)
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
760
200
NV
5.0
1.0
80
100
100
NV
0.64
0.4
0.81
SB-02
22 - 32
3/18/2021
ND<100
ND<100
245.2 J
<0.5
0.111 J J3 J6
3.67 J3 J6
SB-11
33 - 43
3/18/2021
ND<100
353
367
<0.5
ND<0.500
0.571
Notes:
Yellow shaded values exceed the Tier 1 ESL.
MCLs = Maximum Contaminant Levels for drinking water.
Note 1 MCL Priority lists all allowable MCLs.  If no MCLs are available, the lower of the cancer, non-cancer, or tap water direct exposure level is listed.
Note 2 Tier 1 SFBRWQCB Environmental Screening Levels. 2019 Interim Final (Rev. 2).
Note 3 TPHd data shown represents laboratory results for carbon range C12-C22 hydrocarbons.
Note 4 TPHmo data shown represents laboratory results for carbon range C22-C40 hydrocarbons.
SFBRWQCB ESL = San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board
VOCs = Volatile Organic Compounds.
TPHg = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as gasoline.
TPHd = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as diesel.
TPHmo = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as motor oil.
PCE = Tetrachloroethene.
µg/L = Micrograms per liter.
ND<0.500 = Not detected above noted laboratory reporting limit.
NV = No Value Established. 
J = Estimated value.
J3 = The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J6 = The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
MCL Priority Note 1
Tier 1 ESL Note 2
Boring ID
Date Sampled
662 of 1252

--- page 663 ---
APPENDIX A 
Drilling Permits 
663 of 1252

--- page 664 ---
ape SAN MATEO COUNTY HEALTH

Do
ORDINANCE: 04023 ¥ ENVIRONMENTAL PERMIT 21-0474
" HEALTH SERVICES

P/E: 2010 MONIFORING.WELLS - INSTALLATION/DESTRUCTION

FACILITY: F OWNER: .
222 E 4TH AVE, SAN MATEO —~ £ Wee LANBSSM LLC%
J =e 664 MENLO. AVE 2ND FLR

CONTRACTOR:
GREGG DRILLING

TERMS & CONDITIONS:

CONSTRUCT SOIL BORING (12)
CONSULTANT: RMD ENVIRONMENTAL/SOLUTIO
PROJECT MGR: OWEN RATCHYE ~ . ,

KIAN ATKINSON
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST
DATE ISSUED: 3/11/2021

EXPIRATION DATE: 7/11/2021

THIS CERTIFICATE IS NONTRANSFERABLE AND MUST BE POSTED ON-SITE IN A CONSPICUOUS PLACE.

664 of 1252


--- page 665 ---
PNP EY 5 pene pony
TY enue |)

Environmental Health Services
Groundwater Protection Program
2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, Suite #100
San Mateo, CA 94403

4 ENVIRONMENTAL
74 al EALTH SERVICES eee | Fax: (650) 627-8244

SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION

Allow three (3) full working days for processing a complete permit application which includes payment (one permit per parcel). Drilling start date &
time must be scheduled with County staff at (650) 464-0047 or drilling@smcgov.org at least 2 full working days (i.e. 48 hours) in advance.
Visit smchealth.org/ehfees for Groundwater Protection Program fees.

PURPOSE OF [_]Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Installation Construct Soil Borings (variance request if to be left open >24 hrs)
APPLICATION [-] Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Destruction Extension of Permit #
No. of Wells No. of Borings12 Well/Boring Names SB-01 to SB-12

PURPOSE OF Environmental LEAD [-] County GPP (permit approval is not to be considered work plan approval)

DRILLING Geotechnical AGENCY [] RWQCB/DTSC/USEPA (Provide approval letter) None (i.e. voluntary)

SITE / DRILLING INFORMATION

Agency Case # N/A Assessor's Parcel # (required) 034-176-050 (one per permit)

Drilling Location Address: 222 E 4th Ave City: San Mateo Zip: 94401

To Be Constructed In: [_] Public Property Private Property [_] Refuse

Maximum Proposed Depth (wells/borings) 20 ft (feet) Drilling Method: Direct Push

Boring Diameter: 2" Casing Diameter:N/A Filter Pack Interval:N/A Screen Interval: N/A
Destruction Method: [_] Pressure Grouting (provide well construction logs and grout calcs)

(6 gallons water max/94 lb cement, up to 5% bentonite) [7] Overdrilling (guide rods for total depth prior to starting required)
WELL/BORING OWNER (Well/boring owner name or contact person should match signature)

Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025
Telephone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

It is my responsibility to notify the County of any known changes in the purpose of this well/boring from that which is indicated on this
application, to submit indication of annual usage of wells to the County, and to maintain the well in good condition. (Letter signed by well/boring
owner/contact person, containing above language and attesting to knowledge of all permit requirements and conditions, may be substituted for signature.)

Well/Boring Owner's/Contact Person's Signature: Date:
Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025
Phone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

| understand that a well/boring is being installed on my property. | agree to notify the County and Well Owner of any known damage or future
access issues to the well (Letter signed by property owner, containing above language, or encroachment permit may be substituted for signature)

Property Owner's Signature: Date:

ERIELINGICOMER Nc crn
Drilling Company: Gregg Drilling Contact Person: Brandon Moses

Address:950 Howe Road City, State, Zip: Martinez, CA 94553

Phone: 925-313-5800 Email: bnoses@greggrrilling.com C57 Drillers License # 1044456

| certify that the well/boring will be constructed in compliance with the conditions of this permit (see reverse), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance,
and the State Water Well Standards, and that the license listed above is considered current and active by the Contractors State License Board.

Driller's Signature: Date:
Consultant Company: RMD Environmental Solutions Project Manager: Owen Ratchye
Address:1371 Oakland Blvd., suite 200 City, State, Zip: Walnut Creek, CA 94596
Telephone: 415-671-9415 Email: oratchye@rmdes.net

Field Contact & Cell # (if known): Erin Male 415-571-6627
| certify that this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and the well/boring will be constructed/destroyed in compliance with the conditions
of this permit (see page 2), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance, and the State Water Well Standards. | understand that | am responsible for
General Conditions E, F, K, and L of this permit and if | indicated the purpose of drilling is geotechnical, then no one will use the boring to collect any
samples for environmental analyses. If there is a change in Responsible Professional, | will notify San Mateo County GPP staff.

Responsible Professional's Name (Please print legibly): Owen Ratchye

Responsible Professional's Signature: Date:
California Professional Geologist (PG) No. or Civil Engineer (PE) No. C47749 ex12/24 Page 2 of 5

ENA

665 of 1252


--- page 666 ---
OP, SAN MATEO COUNTY HEALTH Pid sinaitbasA Be tg be
Dy gram
Se ENVIRONMENTAL 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, Suite #100

Vv. } 1) San Mateo, CA 94403

Vx / HEALTH SERVICES Phone: (650) 372-6200 | Fax: (650) 627-8244

smchealth.org/gpp

SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION CHECKLIST

Ol Legibly filled in all appropriate blanks and boxes, except signature and date (review instructions to verify
appropriate fields to leave any lines blank or unchecked).

C1] Have all required signatures (can be on separate pages, do not need to be wet signatures).

oO Include appropriate fee with application. Payment can be made by credit card over phone to (650) 372-6200
(indicate when and how application submitted).

C1] Include scaled site map of site in relation to cross streets and drilling location in relation to site features.

(1 Show approximate location(s) and ID/Name of well/borings.
a For well installations, indicate (i.e. mark on permit application) anticipated destruction method of these wells.
May be asked to provide written description for small diameter (<2") wells.

O For well destructions via pressure grouting, included well construction logs and grout volume calculations.
An approved work plan is required for all well destructions.

Shallow (<10') vapor wells do not need to be permitted. However, still must comply with well standards for
C1 installation and destruction (i.e. do not use bentonite alone in vadose zone for sanitary seal and remove all non-
native material).

Notify permitting inspector 2 full working days prior to start of drilling.
Separate notification to case worker if known contaminated site.

C Consultant must submit all required information within 60 days of drilling (preferably to drilling@smcgov.org).

( For Borings and wells: require logs, site map, and analytical data.

‘al For wells: require surveyed coordinates and elevation, Well Completion Report (or indicate upload to
Department of Water Resources Online System of Well Completion Reports DWR's OSWCR).

COMMON MISTAKES TO AVOID ON APPLICATION

Listed potential buyer as Property Owner,
Listed case's address rather than drilling location's address.
Failed to include Assessor's Parcel Number of the drilling location.

- Provided variance justification memo if temporary wells/borings may need to be left open for more than 24 hours
to wait for groundwater recharge with estimate of maximum time needed.

- Permit is for one mobilization only. If work included in this permit cannot be done in a single mobilization,
another permit may be required.

- Well owner must submit indication of annual use of wells (monitoring reports in association with corrective action
requests satisfies this requirement); otherwise, wells need to be destroyed within year of last originally intended
use.

- Any application for drilling within a landfill (geotechnical or environmental) must be accompanied by a work plan.

Work plans must be approved by San Mateo County Environmental Health Services (EHS) and the Groundwater
Protection Program prior to drilling.

Rev.1/19/2021 SMC Ordinance Title 4, Ch 4.68.080 Page 1 of 5

666 of 1252


--- page 667 ---
SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION
REQUIREMENTS

An accurate and correct map must be submitted with the application and include the following: north arrow, existing and
historic site features, existing and proposed well/boring locations with ID's to scale, property lines and any other pertinent
information. A work plan describing the drilling and construction/destruction methodology must be submitted to County staff.
A complete application with appropriate fees must be submitted 3 working days in advance of drilling and notification of start
date and time must be provided at least 2 working days prior to drilling. The permit is subject to both General and Special
Conditions stated below. A copy of the approved Subsurface Drilling Permit must be available on site while work related to
the permit is being performed. Drilling may begin at the notified date and time whether County staff is present or not.

GENERAL CONDITIONS

A. Field notification must be provided to GPP drilling inspection staff at least 2 full working days prior to the start
of drilling. GPP Caseworker also must be notified if site is associated with a remedial action case.

B. Well and boring construction and destruction under this permit are subject to the Standards for the Construction of Wells
in San Mateo County, County Groundwater Protection Program (GPP) Guidelines, Policies & Procedures, the State
Water Well Standards, and any instructions by EHS representative.

C. Well/Boring Owner, Driller, and Responsible Professional assume responsibility for all activities and uses under the
permit, including compliance with Workmen's Compensation Laws, and indemnify, defend and save the County of San
Mateo, its officers, agents and employees, free and harmless from any and all expense, cost, or liability in connection
with or resulting from work or stopped-work associated with the permit, including, but not limited to, property damage,
personal injury, wrongful death, and loss of income.

D. All borings must be properly destroyed (grouted/sealed) within 24 hours of drilling, unless special conditions are
approved beforehand in writing as part of this permit, and must be continuously protected and stabilized.

E. Analytical results of all soil, vapor, and groundwater samples collected during the execution of drilling under this permit
must be submitted to County GPP staff by the Responsible Professional within 60 days of sample collection. If
contamination is discovered during drilling, verbal notification to County GPP by the Responsible Professional is
required within 72 hours of discovery. Proper storage, labeling & disposal of investigation-derived residual wastes are
the responsibility of the consultant unless stated otherwise contractually.

F. Boring logs, well construction details, and finalized as-built location map for all borings/ wells (except geotechnical
borings) signed by a Responsible Professional, must be submitted to County GPP by the Responsible Professional
within 60 days of drilling/construction/destruction. DWR Form 188 must be filed with the State per water code 13752.

G. Permit is valid only for the purpose specified herein. No change in purpose or required procedures, as described on
this permit application, in the associated workplan, or in the special conditions below, will be allowed except upon
written permission from the County. Construction aspects can be changed based on conditions encountered in the
field.

H. Permit is valid for one mobilization associated with originally permitted boring/well locations only, including
contingency locations, and is automatically canceled if not exercised, or if an extension is not applied for and granted
within 120 days of the original permit issuance date. Failure to notify staff of cancellation or delay in start time will result
in the Consultant being billed an inspection cancellation fee if GPP staff attempted to perform an inspection. Fees are
listed at smchealth.org/ehfees.

|. Wells installed under this permit may not be used for domestic, municipal, agricultural, or irrigation water supply.

J. All work performed must conform to Business and Profession Codes and State Water Well Standards.

K. Top-of-casing elevation of all wells must be surveyed to the nearest 0.01-foot relative to Mean Sea Level or NAVD88 and
submitted to County GPP within 60 days of drilling, and to State GeoTracker as appropriate. Geotechnical wells are
exempt from this requirement if a written variance from GPP is obtained prior to drilling.

L. Latitude and longitude of all wells must be surveyed with sub-meter accuracy relative to NAD83 and submitted to County
GPP within 60 days of drilling, and to State GeoTracker as appropriate.

M. Violation of any requirement or general or special permit condition may result in an order by GPP staff to cease work
under this permit, correct the violation, potentially re-permit the work as a new mobilization, and potential actions may be
taken against the Well Owner, Property Owner, or Responsible Professional by GPP.

SPECIAL CONDITIONS: 9 of the 12 borings will be installed in a below-ground parking garage.
(agency use only) Purpose of borings is to investigate environmental conditions in preparation for construction

Agency Use Only:
Signature:

FA# Date: 4 o| |

Rev. 1/19/2021 SMC Ordinan

667 of 1252


--- page 668 ---
PERMIT APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS AND FEES

A subsurface drilling permit for borings and wells is required if groundwater is anticipated to be encountered or if drilling
extends to 10 feet or deeper. Sub-slab and vapor wells shallower than 10 feet do not require a permit. Should groundwater be
encountered shallower than 10 feet unexpectedly, then contact San Mateo County EHS Groundwater Protection Program
(GPP) immediately and a permit application will be required retroactively. GPP is the permitting agency for all subsurface
drilling for environmental and geotechnical purposes within San Mateo County. San Mateo County EHS Land Use Program
(LUP) reviews all water well permit applications (smchealth.org/environ/forms) for public supply, domestic, agricultural,
cathodic protection, exploratory, and geothermal heat exchange well construction and destruction and permit applications for
all reconnaissance, investigation, and excavation work strictly for land use purposes. Please contact the LUP at (650)
372-6200 to discuss permitting, notification, and drilling requirements.

A 120-day extension may be granted for permits which have not been used during the original 120-day time frame. Submit
another Subsurface Drilling Permit Application and payment for the permit extension fee at 50% of the fee for the type of
drilling. Extension must be requested prior to the original permit expiring. If there are several wells and borings over several
contiguous assessor's parcels and public right-of-ways, then discuss the fee with the County inspector at (650) 464-0047 or
drilling@smcgov.org. The County inspector may charge only one fee for borings and wells constructed across contiguous
assessor's parcels and public right-of- ways. However, this is dependent on how much the County inspector believes will
need to be inspected in the field and how much review time of required submittals will be needed.

Section 1: Purpose of Application

At least one of the four boxes must be selected; however, multiple boxes may be selected as long as all of the wells and
borings are on the same assessor's parcel or public right-of-way (see Section 4). A boring under this permit application is
defined as a constructed hole lasting less than 24 hours before being properly destroyed. After 24 hours, the constructed
hole is considered a well under this permit application which needs to be constructed appropriately unless special conditions
are approved as part of the permit. If permit extension is selected, then write in the permit number of the permit to be
extended. List the number of wells and borings anticipated to be drilled and what they will be named. This number may
change in the field based on conditions encountered.

Section 2: Purpose of Drilling

At least one of the two boxes must be selected; however, both boxes may be selected as long as both purposes of
drilling are to be conducted on the same assessor's parcel or public right-of-way (see Section 4). Geotechnical drilling may
also be conducted under San Mateo County's Annual Geotechnical Drilling Permit in which consulting companies pay an
annual fee to perform this type of drilling an unlimited amount of times for 365 days after obtaining the Annual Geotechnical
Drilling Permit. Fees are listed at smchealth.org/ehfees. Please note, a Notification Form (not available on website) similar
to this Subsurface Drilling Permit Application must be completely filled out and submitted at least 2 business days (48
hours) prior to drilling under the Annual Geotechnical Drilling Permit.

Section 3: Lead Agency

One of the three boxes must be selected. The EHS GPP would be selected only for investigations of known contaminated
sites that the County is the lead agency. For drilling required by the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB),
Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC), or the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), please
include a copy of their approval letter. None would refer to investigations required by the County CUPA (Hazardous
Materials Program), County Land Use or Solid Waste Programs, County or City Planning or Building Departments or
voluntary investigations for due diligence or property transactions.

Section 4: Drilling Information

All applicable spaces must be filled in. Agency Case # refers to the lead agency's case number, if overseen by an
agency, for the project under which the investigation is being conducted. Assessor's parcel number is the 9-digit number
corresponding to the specific private property the drilling is proposed to be conducted on (can be found under Secured
Property Taxes at sanmateocountytaxcollector.org or here).Each permit must include only one assessor's parcel
number. If the drilling is to be conducted only in public right-of-ways, then the assessor's parcel number space should be
filled in with N/A for not applicable. If drilling is to occur on both a private property and a contiguous public right-of-way, then
two permits (one for the private property and one for the public right-of-way) must be filled out. Address, City, and Zip refer
to the location of the specific property drilling is proposed to be conducted on. The address for a public right-of-way would
simply be the name of the specific section of the public right-of-way (ie. 100 block of Main Street). To be Constructed in
must have one box selected. Again, this differentiates between a public right-of-way and a private property. Refuse is a
special land use designation which needs to be indicated on the permit application.

Rev. 1/19/2021 SMC Ordinance Title 4, Ch 4.68.080 Page 4 of 5

668 of 1252


--- page 669 ---
PERMIT APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS AND FEES (CONTINUED)

Section 4: Drilling Information (continued)

The rest of this section is self-explanatory, may change in the field based on conditions encountered, and must be filled in
except Destruction Method for borings only. Schematics may be submitted instead of filling in the well construction details,
particularly if wells will be constructed differently from each other.

Destruction Method requires the use of a maximum of 7 gallons of water per 94 pounds of cement. This measurement (for
both water and cement) must be able to be demonstrated in the field upon request from the inspector (such as using a 5-
gallon bucket for measuring the water and using entire bags of cement). For pressure grouting, the well construction log
and grout calculations must be submitted. The sand pack may not be more than 3 feet above the top of the screened interval,
the screened interval may not be longer than 25 feet, and the bottom of the original boring may not be more than 2 feet
deeper than the bottom of the constructed well. The total depth of the well and the fact that there are no obstructions in the
well must be verified in the field. Type I/II cement grout must be tremied into the well, followed by application of 25 psi
pressure maintained for 5 minutes. If the well does not meet pressure grouting criteria, it must be destroyed by drilling out to
the total depth of the original boring. For overdrilling, the well casing and all annular material must be removed using a guide
rod for the entire depth of the well inserted prior to drilling, and the boring tremie grouted to the surface using Type I/II cement
grout. A general observation is that grouting borings using a % inch PVC pipe, typically used to collect grab groundwater
samples in borings, does not work with a screened section. Free falling grout is only allowed if the boring is dry, or if water is
present in less than 10% of the boring, and less than 30 feet deep. Grout calculations must be provided in a well destruction
workplan.

Section 5: Well/Boring Owner

The name of the entity owning the wells and borings must be listed along with their contact person (if different from the name
of the well/boring owner), address, telephone number, and email address. The contact person must be directly associated
with or an agent of the entity owning the wells and borings such as a property manager, real estate manager, contractor, or
lawyer but not the environmental consultant listed on the permit application in Section 8. A phone number and an email
address must be provided to allow the inspector to contact the well/boring owner to verify information if necessary. By
providing an email address, the well/ boring owner will receive an electronic copy of the permit. The permit application must
be signed and dated by either the entity listed as the owner of the wells and borings or the contact person. Signatures
(Sections 5 through 8) do not need to be original; however, one copy of the permit application must contain all of the
information besides the signatures in a legible format. ALL SIGNATURES REQUIRED (SECTIONS 5 THROUGH 8) DO NOT
NEED TO BE ON THE SAME COPY OF THE PERMIT APPLICATION.

Section 6: Property Owner

The name of the entity owning the property must be listed and needs to match the name listed with the County Assessor for
this property. The contact person must be directly associated with or an agent of the entity owning the property such as a
property manager, real estate manager, contractor, or lawyer but not the environmental consultant listed on the permit
application in Section 8. A telephone number and an email address must be provided to allow the inspector to contact the
property owner to verify information if necessary. By providing an email address, the property owner will receive an electronic
copy of the permit. The permit application must be signed and dated by the entity listed as the property owner only.
AGENTS CANNOT SIGN FOR THE PROPERTY OWNER. For public rights-of-way, a copy of the encroachment permit can
be substituted for the property owner signature. The City of San Mateo, among others, will not issue an encroachment permit
until the subsurface drilling permit is issued, but the City of San Mateo will issue a letter of intent to issue an encroachment
permit which is acceptable as a substitute for the property owner signature in City of San Mateo rights-of-way.

Section 7: Drilling Company

The name of the company proposed to drill the wells and borings must be listed along with the drilling company contact
person, address, phone number, and email address. In addition, the driller's C57 license number must be provided. By
providing an email address, the drilling company will receive an electronic copy of the permit. The permit application must be
signed and dated by the driller's contact person. If the drilling company changes, then a new subsurface drilling permit
application should be filled out completely except for Sections 5, 6, and 8.

Section 8: Consulting Company

The name of the company overseeing the proposed drilling of the wells and borings must be listed along with the project
manager, address, phone number, and email address. The responsible professional overseeing the work must print their
name legibly, sign their name and date, and provide either their California Professional Geologist or Civil Engineering
number. Field contact name and number, if known, are optional but beneficial for all parties involved.

Rev. 1/19/2021 SMC Ordinance Title 4, Ch 4.68.080 Page 5 of 5

669 of 1252


--- page 670 ---
Environmental Health Services

DOO SAN MATEO COUNTY HEALTH Groundwater Protection Program
2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, Suite #100
TK) ENVIRONMENTAL San Mateo, CA 94403

iN (14 HEALTH SERVICES Phone: (650) 372-6200 | Fax: (650) 627-8244

smchealth.org/gpp

SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION

Allow three (3) full working days for processing a complete permit application which includes payment (one permit per parcel). Drilling start date &
time must be scheduled with County staff at (650) 464-0047 or drilling@smcgov.org at least 2 full working days (i.e. 48 hours) in advance.
Visit smchealth.org/ehfees for Groundwater Protection Program fees.

PURPOSE OF [_]Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Installation Construct Soil Borings (variance request if to be left open >24 hrs)
APPLICATION [~] Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Destruction Extension of Permit #

No. of Wells No. of Borings12 Well/Boring Names SB-01 to SB-12
PURPOSE OF Environmental LEAD [_] County GPP (permit approval is not to be considered work plan approval)
DRILLING Geotechnical AGENCY [_] RWQCB/DTSC/USEPA (Provide approval letter) None (i.e. voluntary)
SITE / DRILLING INFORMATION
Agency Case # N/A Assessor's Parcel # (required) 034-176-050 (one per permit)
Drilling Location Address: 222 E 4th Ave City: San Mateo Zip: 94401
To Be Constructed In: [7] Public Property Private Property [_] Refuse
Maximum Proposed Depth (wells/borings) 20 ft (feet) Drilling Method: Direct Push
Boring Diameter: 2" Casing Diameter: N/A Filter Pack Interval:N/A Screen Interval: N/A

Destruction Method: [_] Pressure Grouting (provide well construction logs and grout calcs)

(6 gallons water max/94 Ib cement, up to 5% bentonite) [7] Overdrilling (guide rods for total depth prior to starting required)
WELL/BORING OWNER (Well/boring owner name or contact person should match signature)
NamerLangSMLLG = Cs Cntact Perso Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025

Telephone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

It is my responsibility to notify the County of any known changes in the purpose of this well/boring from that which is indicated on this
application, to submit indication of annual usage of wells to the County, and to maintain the well in good condition. (Letter signed by well/boring
owner/contact person, containing above language and attesting to kngwledge of all permit requirements and conditions, may be substituted for signature.)
Well/Boring Owner's/Contact Person's Signature: Wlarcoue Gp ZS, Date: 03.04.21
PROPERTY OWNER (Name as appears on assessor's roles should match signature)

Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025

Phone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

| understand that a well/boring is being installed on my property. | agree to notify the County and Well Owner of any known damage or future
access issues to the well (Letter signed by property owner, containing above language, or encroachment permit may be substituted for signature)

Property Owner's Signature: Wlarcut Gebmour Date: 03.04.21
DRILLING COMPANY

Drilling Company: Gregg Drilling Contact Person: Brandon Moses
Address:950 Howe Road City, State, Zip: Martinez, CA 94553
Phone: 925-313-5800 Email: bnoses@greggdrilling.com C57 Drillers License # 1044456

| certify that the well/boring will be constructed in compliance with the conditions of this permit (see reverse), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance,
and the State Water Well Standards, and that the license listed above is considered current and active by the Contractors State License Board.

Driller's Signature: Date:
ONSULTANCOMEANY Vc mt ee
Consultant Company: RMD Environmental Solutions Project Manager: Owen Ratchye

Address:1371 Oakland Blvd., suite 200 City, State, Zip: Walnut Creek, CA 94596

Telephone: 415-671-9415 Email: oratchye@rmdes.net

Field Contact & Cell # (if known): Erin Male 415-571-6627
| certify that this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and the well/boring will be constructed/destroyed in compliance with the conditions
of this permit (see page 2), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance, and the State Water Well Standards. | understand that | am responsible for
General Conditions E, F, K, and L of this permit and if | indicated the purpose of drilling is geotechnical, then no one will use the boring to collect any
samples for environmental analyses. If there is a change in Responsible Professional, | will notify San Mateo County GPP staff.

Responsible Professional's Name (Please print legibly): Owen Ratchye
Responsible Professional's Signature: Date:

California Professional Geologist (PG) No. or Civil Engineer (PE) No. Page 2 of 5

670 of 1252


--- page 671 ---
Environmental Health Services

es SAN MATEO COUNTY HEALTH Groundwater Protection Program
iw’, ¥ ENVIRONMENTAL 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, Suite #100

7X Ki San Mateo, CA 94403
“0% 1) HEALTH SERVI CE S Prete een | Fax: (650) 627-8244

SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION

Allow three (3) full working days for processing a complete permit application which includes payment (one permit per parcel). Drilling start date &
time must be scheduled with County staff at (650) 464-0047 or drilling@smcgov.org at least 2 full working days (i.e. 48 hours) in advance.
Visit smchealth.org/ehfees for Groundwater Protection Program fees.

PURPOSE OF [_]Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Installation [X] Construct Soil Borings (variance request if to be left open >24 hrs)
APPLICATION [] Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Destruction Extension of Permit #
No. of Wells No. of Borings12 Well/Boring Names SB-01 to SB-12

PURPOSE OF Environmental LEAD [-] County GPP (permit approval is not to be considered work plan approval)
DRILLING Geotechnical AGENCY [_] RWQCB/DTSC/USEPA (Provide approval letter) None (i.e. voluntary)
SITE / DRILLING INFORMATION
Agency Case # N/A Assessor's Parcel # (required) 034-176-050 (one per permit)
Drilling Location Address: 222 E 4th Ave City: San Mateo Zip: 94401
To Be Constructed In: [-] Public Property Private Property [_] Refuse
Maximum Proposed Depth (wells/borings) 20 ft (feet) Drilling Method: Direct Push
Boring Diameter: 2" Casing Diameter:N/A Filter Pack Interval:N/A Screen Interval: N/A

Destruction Method: [_] Pressure Grouting (provide well construction logs and grout calcs)
(6 gallons water max/94 Ib cement, up to 5% bentonite) [] Overdrilling (guide rods for total depth prior to starting required)

Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025
Telephone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

It is my responsibility to notify the County of any known changes in the purpose of this well/boring from that which is indicated on this
application, to submit indication of annual usage of wells to the County, and to maintain the well in good condition. (Letter signed by well/boring
owner/contact person, containing above language and attesting to knowledge of all permit requirements and conditions, may be substituted for signature.)

Well/Boring Owner's/Contact Person's Signature: Date:

PROPERTY OWNER (Name as appears on assessor's roles should match signature)
Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour

Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025

Phone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

| understand that a well/boring is being installed on my property. | agree to notify the County and Well Owner of any known damage or future
access issues to the well (Letter signed by property owner, containing above language, or encroachment permit may be substituted for signature)

Property Owner's Signature: Date:
LT a ee
Drilling Company: Gregg Drilling Contact Person: Brandon Moses

Address:950 Howe Road City, State, Zip: Martinez, CA 94553

Phone: 925-313-5800 Email: bnoses@greggdrilling.com C57 Drillers License # 1044456

| certify that the well/boring will be constructed in compliance with the conditions of this permit (see reverse), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance,
and the State Water Well Standards, and that the license listed above is considered current and active by the Contractors State License Board.

Driller's Signature: Tim Boyd See ats ere Date: March 5, 2021
Consultant Company: RMD Environmental Solutions Project Manager: Owen Ratchye

Address:1371 Oakland Blvd., suite 200 City, State, Zip: Walnut Creek, CA 94596

Telephone: 415-671-9415 Email: oratchye@rmdes.net

Field Contact & Cell # (if known): Erin Male 415-571-6627

| certify that this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and the well/boring will be constructed/destroyed in compliance with the conditions
of this permit (see page 2), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance, and the State Water Well Standards. | understand that | am responsible for
General Conditions E, F, K, and L of this permit and if | indicated the purpose of drilling is geotechnical, then no one will use the boring to collect any
samples for environmental analyses. If there is a change in Responsible Professional, | will notify San Mateo County GPP staff.

Responsible Professional's Name (Please print legibly): Owen Ratchye
Responsible Professional's Signature: Date:

California Professional Geologist (PG) No. or Civil Engineer (PE) No. Page 2 of 5

671 of 1252


--- page 672 ---
wo Environmental Health Services
IS SAN MATEO COUNTY HEALTH Groundwater Protection Program

we% ENVI RONMENTAL Se cease Suite #100
“ne H EALTH SERVICES Phone: (650) 372-6200 | Fax: (650) 627-8244
) smchealth.org/gpp

SUBSURFACE DRILLING PERMIT APPLICATION

Allow three (3) full working days for processing a complete permit application which includes payment (one permit per parcel). Drilling start date &
time must be scheduled with County staff at (650) 464-0047 or drilling@smcgov.org at least 2 full working days (i.e. 48 hours) in advance.
Visit smchealth.org/ehfees for Groundwater Protection Program fees.

PURPOSE OF [_]Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Installation [<x] Construct Soil Borings (variance request if to be left open >24 hrs)

APPLICATION [_] Groundwater Monitoring/Vapor Well Destruction Extension of Permit #

No. of Wells No. of Borings12 Well/Boring Names SB-01 to SB-12

PURPOSE OF Environmental LEAD [-] County GPP (permit approval is not to be considered work plan approval)
DRILLING Geotechnical AGENCY [_] RWQCB/DTSC/USEPA (Provide approval letter) None (i.e. voluntary)
SITE / DRILLING INFORMATION
Agency Case # N/A Assessor's Parcel # (required) 034-176-050 (one per permit)
Drilling Location Address: 222 E 4th Ave City: San Mateo Zip: 94401
To Be Constructed In: [_] Public Property Private Property [_] Refuse
Maximum Proposed Depth (wells/borings) 20 ft (feet) Drilling Method: Direct Push
Boring Diameter: 2" Casing Diameter: N/A Filter Pack Interval:N/A Screen Interval: N/A

Destruction Method: [_] Pressure Grouting (provide well construction logs and grout calcs)
(6 gallons water max/94 Ib cement, up to 5% bentonite) [-] Overdrilling (guide rods for total depth prior to starting required)
Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour
Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025
Telephone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

It is my responsibility to notify the County of any known changes in the purpose of this well/boring from that which is indicated on this
application, to submit indication of annual usage of wells to the County, and to maintain the well in good condition. (Letter signed by well/boring
owner/contact person, containing above language and attesting to knowledge of all permit requirements and conditions, may be substituted for signature.)

Well/Boring Owner's/Contact Person's Signature: Date:

oe
Name: Lane SM LLC Contact Person: Marcus Gilmour

Address:664 Menlo Ave, 2nd Floor City, State, Zip: Menlo Park, CA 94025

Phone: 310-874-9009 Email: marcus@lane-partners.com

| understand that a well/boring is being installed on my property. | agree to notify the County and Well Owner of any known damage or future
access issues to the well (Letter signed by property owner, containing above language, or encroachment permit may be substituted for signature)

Property Owner's Signature: Date:

i i a
Drilling Company: Gregg Drilling Contact Person: Brandon Moses

Address:950 Howe Road City, State, Zip: Martinez, CA 94553

Phone: 925-313-5800 Email: bnoses@greggdrilling.com C57 Drillers License # 1044456

| certify that the well/boring will be constructed in compliance with the conditions of this permit (see reverse), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance,
and the State Water Well Standards, and that the license listed above is considered current and active by the Contractors State License Board.

Driller's Signature: Date:

CONSULTANT COMPANY, <0 Se
Consultant Company: RMD Environmental Solutions Project Manager: Owen Ratchye

Address:1371 Oakland Blvd., suite 200 City, State, Zip: Walnut Creek, CA 94596

Telephone: 415-671-9415 Email: oratchye@rmdes.net

Field Contact & Cell # (if known): Erin Male 415-571-6627
| certify that this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and the well/boring will be constructed/destroyed in compliance with the conditions
of this permit (see page 2), the San Mateo County Well Ordinance, and the State Water Well Standards. | understand that | am responsible for
General Conditions E, F, K, and L of this permit and if | indicated the purpose of drilling is geotechnical, then no one will use the boring to collect any
samples for environmental analyses. If there is a change in Responsible Professional, | will notify San Mateo County GPP staff.

Responsible Professional's Name (Please print legibly): Owen Ratchye

Responsible Professional's Signature: Owen Ratchye Be eae ost aie Date:
California Professional Geologist (PG) No. or Civil Engineer (PE) No. Page 2 of 5

Rev. 1/19/2021

672 of 1252


--- page 673 ---
LEGEND

Site Boundary

Proposed Grab Groundwater @
§ Sample

222 EAST 4TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

FIGURE
1

673 of 1252


--- page 674 ---
APPENDIX B 
Boring Logs 
674 of 1252

--- page 675 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-01
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
11:11
0.0
11:52
0.0
11:47
0.0
0.0
12:05
0.0
12:03
12:22
0.0
0.0
12:16
3/15/21 @ 12:35, grouted 3/16/21@15:30
START DATE / TIME:   
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
Logged By: E. Male
3/15/21 @ 11:00
DRY
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Macrocore
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
SAMPLING METHOD:  
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
FIRST WATER (BGS):
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
 Depth (feet)
1
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), dark yellowish brown (10yr 3/6), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to 
coarse sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (30, 40, 10, 20).
Page 1 of 2
11
20
18
16
17
19
13
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, very stiff, medium plasticity, fine 
sand, rare fine gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 20, 63). 
-softens @ 19 ft, medium stiffness
3
8
9
7
15
10
No Recovery 13 to 17 ft below garage surface
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), light brownish gray (10yr 6/2), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to 
medium sand, fine gravels, no odor, (25, 40, 10, 25).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, occasional fine gravels, no odor, (5, 20, 25, 55).
2
14
12
5
6
Hand Auger to 5 ft
4
675 of 1252

--- page 676 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-01
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
12:33
0.0
0.0
12:31
0.0
12:45
Logged By: E. Male
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
28
27
3/15/21 @ 12:35, grouted 3/16/21@15:30
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
17 feet bgs.
Well 
Construction 
Details
START DATE / TIME:   
3/15/21 @ 11:00
FIRST WATER (BGS):
30
32
37
 Depth (feet)
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
35
36
31
25
26
33
34
29
21
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/16/21 @15:30.
End of boring (refusal) at 26 feet below garage surface, 3/15/21 @ 12:35.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 16-26 feet below garage surface.
23
24
(as above) Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, medium 
plasticity, fine sand, rare fine gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 20, 63). 
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), dark yellowish brown, (10yr 4/4), moist, stiff, medium plasticity, no odor, 
trace fine gravels, (0, 20, 5, 75).
22
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
20
676 of 1252

--- page 677 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-02
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
19.7 ft below garage surface
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 32 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
14:30
0.0
15:05
0.0
15:02
0.0
15:15
0.0
15:13
0.0
15:30
0.0
15:23
0.0
15:44
0.0
15:42
Logged By: E. Male
8
9
7
2
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
3
3/17/21 @ 16:00, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
START DATE / TIME:   
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Sandy CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/4), dry-damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to medium 
sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (5, 30, 20, 45).
Hand Auger to 5 ft
4
0
 Depth (feet)
3/17/21 @ ~14:00
29.5 ft below garage surfac
32 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Macrocore
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
SAMPLING METHOD:  
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
FIRST WATER (BGS):
Page 1 of 2
11
20
18
16
17
19
13
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand,  fine to medium gravels, no odor, (5, 25, 20, 50). 
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, very stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (5, 
20, 20, 55).
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse 
sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
15
10
1
14
12
5
6
677 of 1252

--- page 678 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-02
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
19.7 ft below garage surface
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 32 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
15:54
0.0
15:53
0.0
16:09
0.0
16:06
0.0
16:21
0.0
16:18
Logged By: E. Male
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
Silty CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, soft, low-medium plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 
10, 30, 60). 
Silty CLAY with sand (CL), dark yellowish brown (10yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine with rare medium gravels, no odor, (5, 20, 25, 50).
Lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, soft, low-medium plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 
10, 30, 60). 
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), dark yellowish brown (10yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine with rare medium gravels, no odor, (5, 20, 25, 50).
Lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp to moist, stiff, low to medium plasticity, fine sand, 
rare medium gravels, no odor, (0, 10, 30, 60).
Sandy CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), very moist (moisture decreases with depth), soft, low to 
medium plasticity, fine sand, rare medium gravels, no odor, (10, 25, 20, 45).
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
21
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
28
27
3/17/21 @ 16:00, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
29.5 ft below garage surface
Well 
Construction 
Details
START DATE / TIME:   
3/17/21 @ ~14:00
FIRST WATER (BGS):
30
32
37
 Depth (feet)
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
32 ft below garage surface
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
35
36
31
25
26
33
34
29
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
End of boring at 32 feet below garage surface, 3/17/21 @ 16:00.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 22-32 feet below garage surface.
23
24
22
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
20
678 of 1252

--- page 679 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-03
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 16 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
8:05
0.0
8:43
0.0
8:39
0.0
8:53
8:56
0.0
9:12
0.0
9:07
End of boring (refusal) at 16 feet below garage surface, 3/18/21 @ 9:00.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 6-16 feet below garage surface.
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine gravels, no odor, (10, 25, 15, 50).
Lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, very stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, rare fine 
gravels, no odor, (2, 10, 15, 73).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), dark brown (7.5yr 3/4), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, rare fine 
gravels, no odor, (3, 15, 20, 62).
10
11
19
20
Page 1 of 1
16
17
18
12
13
14
15
8
9
3
6
4
5
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), brown (10yr 4/3), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse sand, fine 
to medium gravels, no odor, (20, 35, 15, 30).
2
7
3/18/21 @ 9:00, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
16 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/18/21 @ ~8:00
Logged By: E. Male
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
679 of 1252

--- page 680 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-04
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26.5 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
13:59
14:39
0.0
14:26
0.0
14:50
0.0
14:52
0.0
15:00
0.0
14:57
0.0
15:14
15:11
0.0
Logged By: E. Male
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26.5 ft below garage surfac
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/15/21 @ ~13:30
3/15/21 @ 15:30, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
2
3
6
8
7
4
5
9
10
11
16
12
13
Page 1 of 2
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), dark yellow-brown (10yr 3/6), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to 
coarse sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (30, 40, 10, 25).
Sandy CLAY with gravel (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/8), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (20, 30, 20, 30).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, very stiff, low-med plasticity, fine sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (10, 20, 20, 50).
17
18
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, 
rare fine gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 23, 60). 
19
20
14
15
680 of 1252

--- page 681 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-04
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26.5 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
15:28
0.0
15:23
0.0
15:42
Logged By: E. Male
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26.5 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/15/21 @ ~13:30
3/15/21 @ 15:30, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
20
21
27
22
23
24
25
29
30
34
31
32
Page 2 of 2
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, very stiff, low-med plasticity, fine sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (10, 20, 20, 50).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine with rare medium gravels, no odor, (5, 20, 25, 50).
38
39
40
35
36
37
4" lens of: lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), moist, soft, low plasticity, fine sand,  
(2, 15, 20, 63). 
33
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
End of boring (refusal) at 26.5 feet below garage surface, 3/15/21 @ 15:30.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 16.5-26.5 feet below garage surface.
28
26
681 of 1252

--- page 682 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-05
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
1 to 2 inches of Concrete
8:45
0.0
9:26
0.0
9:25
0.0
9:36
0.0
9:34
9:51
0.0
10:03
0.0
9:59
10:17
Page 1 of 2
17
18
19
20
16
12
13
14
15
9
10
11
5
7
8
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/15/21 @ 8:15
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
3
6
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
2
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 5/4), damp, stiff, low to medium plasticity, fine 
sand, no odor, (0, 15, 10, 75).
Sandy lean CLAY with gravel (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine gravels, no odor, (15, 25, 10, 50).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, 
fine gravel, no odor, (5, 15, 15, 65).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp (slight increase in moisture with 
depth), soft, low to medium plasticity, fine sand, rare fine gravels, no odor, (3, 15, 15, 67). 
Logged By: E. Male
26 ft below garage surface
3/15/21 @ 10:35, grouted 3/16/21 @ ~15:30
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), dark yellowish brown (10yr 3/6), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to 
coarse sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (30, 40, 10, 20).
4
682 of 1252

--- page 683 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-05
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
10:24
0.0
10:39
0.0
10:46
33
26
37
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
29
30
28
End of boring at 26 feet below garage surface, 3/15/21 @ 10:35.
27
22
23
24
25
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/16/21 @ ~15:30.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 16-26 feet below garage surface.
20
21
34
31
32
35
36
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
Logged By: E. Male
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/6), damp, very stiff, low-med plasticity, fine sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (5, 25, 10, 60).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), moist, soft, medium plasticity, fine sand, rare fine 
gravels, (2, 15, 20, 63). 
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/15/21 @ 8:15
3/15/21 @ 10:35, grouted 3/16/21 @ ~15:30
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
683 of 1252

--- page 684 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-06
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
7:52
0.3
8:37
0.0
8:35
0.0
8:55
0.0
8:52
0.0
9:02
0.0
9:25
9:22
0.0
9:50
0.0
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse 
sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), very pale brown (10yr 7/3), damp, medium stiff, non-plastic, fine to 
coarse sand, fine to coarse (up to 2") gravels, no odor, (15, 40, 15, 30).
Sandy lean CLAY with gravel (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine 
to coarse sand, fine gravels (rare 2" gravel), no odor, (20, 25, 15, 40).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), light brown (10yr 6/3), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, no 
odor, (2, 15, 23, 60). 
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
2
7
10
Logged By: E. Male
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/16/21 @ 7:45
3/16/21 @ 9:55, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
3
6
4
5
8
9
11
16
12
13
14
15
Page 1 of 2
17
18
19
20
684 of 1252

--- page 685 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-06
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
10:01
0.0
9:57
Logged By: E. Male
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 16-26 feet below garage surface.
Rock Block Sampler, No Recovery 20 to 23 ft below garage surface
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine with rare medium gravels, no odor, (5, 20, 25, 50).
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/16/21 @ 7:45
3/16/21 @ 9:55, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
20
21
27
22
23
24
25
29
30
34
31
32
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
33
End of boring (refusal) at 26 feet below garage surface, 3/16/21 @ 9:55.
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
28
26
35
36
37
685 of 1252

--- page 686 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-07
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 14 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
11:59
0.0
13:29
0.0
13:27
0.0
13:37
0.0
13:35
0.0
13:42
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), dark yellowish brown (10yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
coarse sand, fine gravels, no odor, (10, 35, 10, 45).
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse sand, fine 
to coarse gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to coarse sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (10, 25, 20, 45).
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
Logged By: E. Male
End of boring (refusal) at 14 feet below garage surface, 3/17/21 @ 13:40.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 9-14 feet below garage surface.
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
14 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/17/21 @ ~11:50
3/17/21 @ 13:40, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
2
3
6
7
4
5
8
9
10
11
16
12
13
14
15
Page 1 of 1
17
18
19
20
686 of 1252

--- page 687 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-08
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
10:00
0.0
10:28
0.0
10:23
0.0
10:40
0.0
10:39
0.0
10:55
0.0
10:51
0.0
11:06
0.0
11:03
Page 1 of 2
17
18
Sandy lean CLAY with gravel (CL), strong brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine 
to coarse sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (15, 30, 20, 35). 
19
20
No Recovery 20-24 ft
10
11
16
12
13
14
15
8
9
7
4
5
6
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
2
1
3
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
3/18/21 @ 9:40
3/18/21 @ 11:00, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
Logged By: E. Male
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), brown (10yr 4/3), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse sand, fine 
to coarse gravels, no odor, (20, 35, 15, 30).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/8), damp, low plasticity, fine to medium sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (10, 35, 15, 40).
6" lens of sandy silty CLAY with gravels
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), strong brown (10yr 5/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, rare fine 
gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 20, 63).
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
687 of 1252

--- page 688 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-08
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 26 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
11:20
0.0
11:13
26
33
35
36
37
34
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
28
31
32
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
29
30
Well 
Construction 
Details
20
21
27
22
23
24
25
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
Logged By: E. Male
End of boring at 26 feet below garage surface, 3/18/21 @ 11:00.
No Recovery in 20 to 24 ft drive, but some loose material collected in 24 to 26 ft drive: Lean CLAY 
with sand (CL), red brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 15, 30, 
55).
Sandy CLAY (CL), strong brown (10yr 4/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to medium sand, fine to 
medium gravels, (5, 25, 30, 40). 
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
26 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/18/21 @ 9:40
3/18/21 @ 11:00, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
688 of 1252

--- page 689 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-09
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 15 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
10:34
0.0
11:09
0.0
11:04
0.0
11:26
0.0
11:12
0.0
11:38
0.0
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), strong brown (10yr 4/6), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, 
fine gravels, no odor, (5, 15, 15, 65).
[6" lens: clayey GRAVEL with sand (GW), brownish yellow (10yr 6/6), damp, loose, non- plastic, 
fine to medium sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (50, 25, 10, 15).]
End of boring (refusal) at 15 feet below garage surface, 3/16/21 @ 11:15.
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/16/21 @ ~15:30.
Logged By: E. Male
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), yellow brown (10yr 5/8), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse 
sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), pale brown (10yr 6/3), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to coarse 
sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (10, 35, 15, 40).
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
15 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/16/21 @ 10:20
3/16/21 @ 11:15, grouted 3/16/21 @ ~15:30
FIRST WATER (BGS):
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
2
3
6
7
4
5
8
9
10
11
16
12
13
14
15
Page 1 of 1
17
18
19
20
689 of 1252

--- page 690 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-10
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 25 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
13:52
14:22
0.0
14:20
0.0
14:34
0.0
14:32
0.0
14:46
0.0
14:44
0.0
15:00
14:58
0.0
3/16/21 @ 15:50, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
Logged By: E. Male
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), yellowish brown (10yr 5/4), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to coarse 
sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, medium stiff to stiff (stiffness increases 
with depth), low to medium plasticity, fine sand, fine gravels, no odor, (5, 25, 15, 55).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, very stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 
15, 20, 65).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to medium sand, 
fine gravels, no odor, (5, 25, 10, 60).
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/16/21 @ ~13:15
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
25 ft below garage surface
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
3
6
8
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
2
7
4
5
9
10
11
16
12
13
14
15
Page 1 of 2
17
18
19
20
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/4), damp, low plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 
25, 20, 55). 
4" lens of moist Sandy CLAY 
690 of 1252

--- page 691 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-10
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
DRY
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 25 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
15:19
0.0
15:15
Logged By: E. Male
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), moist, soft, low-med plasticity, fine sand, fine gravels, 
no odor, (2, 20, 15, 63).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brownish yellow (10yr 6/6), damp, very stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, fine 
gravels, no odor, (5, 25, 10, 60).
[6" lens: lean CLAY with sand (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), moist, soft, low plasticity, fine sand, fine gravels  
(2, 15, 20, 63).]
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
25 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/16/21 @ ~13:15
3/16/21 @ 15:50, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
DRY
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
20
21
27
22
23
24
25
29
30
34
31
32
36
37
Page 2 of 2
38
39
40
33
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
End of boring (refusal) at 25 feet below garage surface, 3/16/21 @ 15:50.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 15-25 feet below garage surface.
28
26
35
691 of 1252

--- page 692 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-11
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
16.8  ft below garage surface
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 43 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
 
0.0
7:50
0.0
8:42
0.0
8:51
0.0
8:49
9:05
0.0
8:59
0.0
9:16
0.0
9:12
0.0
9:22
Page 1 of 3
17
18
19
20
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/4), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to medium sand, 
fine to medium gravels, no odor, (10, 30, 15, 45). 
10
11
16
12
13
14
15
8
9
7
4
5
3
6
Borehole 
Construction 
Details
Hand Auger to 5 ft
0
8 inches of Concrete
6 inches of Gravel Fill (3/4" gravel, sub-angular, clean)
1
2
FIRST WATER (BGS):
40.5 ft below garage surfac
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                        
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), dark yellowish brown (10yr 4/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to coarse 
sand, fine gravels, no odor, (10, 35, 10, 45).
--increase in moisture, softer
Logged By: E. Male
Clayey SAND with gravel (SC), dark yellow-brown (10yr 5/8), damp, loose, non-plastic, fine to 
coarse sand, fine to coarse gravels, no odor, (25, 35, 15, 25).
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
43 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/17/21 @ 7:30
3/17/21 @ 10:56, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
692 of 1252

--- page 693 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-11
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
16.8  ft below garage surface
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 43 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
9:20
0.0
9:41
0.0
9:35
0.0
10:12
0.0
10:07
0.0
10:33
0.0
10:47
11:10
0.0
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), brown (7.5yr 4/4), damp,  soft (interbedded with stiff material), medium 
plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 15, 15, 70).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), pale brown (10yr 6/3), damp, soft (interbedded with stiff material), low 
plasticity, fine to medium sand, no odor, (0, 25, 15, 60).
Lean CLAY (CL), dark yellow brown (10yr 4/4), damp, stiff, low-medium plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 5, 10, 85).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine to medium 
sand, fine gravel, rare coarse gravel, no odor, (5, 25, 20, 50).
Lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, medium stiff, low to medium plasticity, fine sand, 
no odor, (0, 15, 20, 65).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/8), damp, medium stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, 
fine gravel, no odor, (10, 25, 20, 45).
33
28
35
36
37
Page 2 of 3
38
39
40
Lean CLAY (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, medium stiff, low to medium plasticity, fine sand, no odor, 
(0, 10, 10, 80).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), mottled light grey (10yr 7/1) and pale brown (10yr 6/3), damp, medium stiff, 
low plasticity, fine sand, rare fine gravel, no odor, (2, 15, 25, 58).
34
31
32
26
No Recovery from 27 to 31 ft below garage surface
29
30
20
21
27
22
23
24
25
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
Logged By: E. Male
As above: Sandy lean CLAY (CL), yellowish brown (10yr 5/4), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine to 
medium sand, fine to medium gravels, no odor, (10, 30, 15, 45). 
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
43 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/17/21 @ 7:30
3/17/21 @ 10:56, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
FIRST WATER (BGS):
40.5 ft below garage surface
693 of 1252

--- page 694 ---
BORING/WELL ID: 
SB-11
Project No. 01-LP-001
MONITORING DEVICE: 
PID (PPM)
FINISH DATE / TIME:
STABILIZED WATER LEVEL:
16.8  ft below garage surface
CASING TOP ELEVATION:
--
BORING DIAMETER/DEPTH:
2.25 inches to 43 feet below garage surface.
Time
PID Reading
Water Level
Sample Interval
Recovery (%)
Stratigraphy
0.0
11:07
0.0
Logged By: E. Male
End of boring at 43 feet below garage surface, 3/17/21 @ 10:56.
Install temporary 0.010-inch slotted screen 33-43 feet below garage surface.
as above: Lean CLAY (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), damp, med stiff, low- med plasticity, fine sand, no odor, (0, 10, 10, 80).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), WET, low plasticity, fine-coarse sand, fine gravels, no odor, (10, 25, 30, 35).
Lean CLAY with sand (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, fine sand, rare fine 
gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 25, 58).
Lean CLAY w/ sand (CL), strong brown (7.5yr 4/6), damp, stiff, low plasticity, f sand, f gravels, no odor, (2, 15, 25, 58).
Sandy lean CLAY (CL), brown (10yr 5/3), WET, low plasticity, fine-coarse sand, fine gravels, no odor, (10, 25, 30, 35).
3/17/21 @ 10:56, grouted 3/18/21 @ ~16:40
PROJECT NAME AND ADDRESS:    
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave, San Mateo
BORING LOCATION (AT SITE):
Underground parking garage of Draeger's Market
TOTAL BORING DEPTH(S):
43 ft below garage surface
CONTRACTOR AND EQUIPMENT:   
Gregg Drilling / Limited Access Ramset Dolly Rig
SAMPLING METHOD:  
Macrocore
START DATE / TIME:   
3/17/21 @ 7:30
FIRST WATER (BGS):
40.5 ft below garage surface
SURFACE ELEVATION:
~12 ft below ground surface
 Depth (feet)
LITHOLOGIC DESCRIPTION
(classification, color, moisture, density, grain size/plasticity, other)                          
Well 
Construction 
Details
40
41
42
43
44
Grouted with Type I/II Portland Cement, Capped with 8 inches of Concrete, 3/18/21 @ ~16:40.
45
46
47
53
48
49
50
51
52
54
55
56
57
58
Page 3 of 3
59
60
694 of 1252

--- page 695 ---
APPENDIX C 
Field Data Sheets 
 
695 of 1252

--- page 696 ---
DAILY FIELD RECORD

Page \ of

—~ |Project and Task Number: ()\ -LO-00|

PERSONAL SAFETY CHECKLIST

y Hi-Viz Safety Vest
Safety Glasses

teel Toe Boots

yvek Coveralls
DRUM ID DESCRIPTION OF CONTENTS AND QUANTITY LOCATION

TTC

DESCRIPTION OF WORK PERFORMED

aS

Le Si gor + OSbQNE mISTG

HeS Moa

i

i
AIS
OC

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, California - 94596

696 of 1252


--- page 697 ---
GEESS GREGG DRILLING, LLC |
. | 950 Howe Road, Martinez, CA 94553

ee eee Project Field Bill Todays Date: Via ay: Ph: (925) 313-5800 www.greggdrilling.com

GDT JOB NUMBER 02214022
JOB START DATE 3/15/2021
JOB END DATE 3/18/2021
START TIME 7AM

COMPANY NAME RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc.
SITE NAME Draeger's Market

ADDRESS 222 East 4th St

CROSS STREET

CITY San Mateo
PROJECT MANAGEF Kirsten Duey

EQUIPMENT Ramset S194
DRILLER/STAFF Armando >
HELPER Cesar

QUANTITY|[TEMS.—C—i“‘“‘CS!CLUNITS| QUANTITY
RIGNO/TYPE a pn a Pa | HOUR | (| [SEISMIC CPT (InteralTest) CP TEST TO
IPERDIEM.—SSts~é~—‘“—SSCSMANINGT| _—SS—S—SC*d (BACCKFLLTESTLOCATIONS | FOOT
PREMIUM TIME MANHR | SSC~*YBENTONITECHIPS CT BAG TO
ADDITIONAL TECHNICIAN. | HOUR |_| |BENTONITEPELLETS | PAL TO
ISTANDBY/MOVE TIME «| HOUR | | |BENTONITEDRIL MUD BAG TO
IBENTONITIEGROUT.CC“‘“‘(‘SCS™COC(*'Y &@BAG CT
[GROUT PUMP/STEAMCLEANER.=«Y DAY. | —~*‘d('(FILTERSAND CT BAG TO
MUD SYSTEM.—S—SsSs=Ssé=sé‘“:SSSSCSC*dSCS@AY | SC™~CSASPHHALTPATCH CT BAG TO
IFORKLIFTIBOBCATILOADER+|| DAY_|_||READY-MIXCONCRETE | BAG TO
WATER TRUCK TENDER *Y| DAY_| | [PORTLAND CEMENT/QUICKSET | BAG [
ISERVICETRUCK.——~—~“C~‘“‘“‘<C<~*;‘CSé AY «dC («dW PLUGS EACH TT
LIFTGATETRUCK.—s—s—s—C“‘“‘a(SSé AY ~*'| ~~ ~*((DISPOSABLEBALERS CP EACH |
CONST./HAND AUGER CREW (2 men | HOUR | ———s| PVC CASING 2" 4" OTHER
~~ .E. UPGRADE TIME PHOUR | 4" OTHER
2 jaa OIRER | EACH [a se

LOCKING’CAPS 2 4" OTHER | EACH| si

[MONITORING WELL BOX(WATERTIGHT) | EACH [

ANODIZED STAND PIPE/BOLLARDS | EACH |

GROUNDWATER SAMPLE CONSUMABLES rEACH| sd

1/4", 1/2" TUBING |FOOT]
IDISPOSABLETIPS.C—“—sSCSCSC EACH [|

a ae

Ss

Section 13751 through 13754 of the California Water Code requires that a report
be filed for every groundwater well installation or abandonment. If the client
does not elect to submit this report, Gregg Drilling, LLC will complete the
appropriate paperwork for a $20 fee per well.

Client to complete [_]GD to complete [_|

The named parties are hereby notified that if charges for above labor, services,
equipment or materials furnished or to be furnished are not paid for in full, the
improved property referred to above may be subject to mechanics lien (per
Section 1181, et. seq. to the California Code of Civil Procedure) and construction
funds are subject to "Stop notice" action (per Section 1190.1, California Code of
Civil Procedure).

TERMS: NET 30 days. 1.5% per month finance charge on accounts 30 days
past due. The undersigned accepts the terms as stated above for services
rendered.

Time Arrive Site: 7

Time Leave Yard:

Time Return Yard: Time Leave Site: en : “2 S)

Lunch Start: Lunch Finish:
SUBCONTRACTOR - ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT:

EQUIPMENT DAMAGE:

WE CAN ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE OF

Project Name: °° 8 P.O./Task #

UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. In the event of adverse and/or hazardous
drilling conditions, client will be informed if rate changes and/or
yonsibility for replacement of lost of damaged equipment. Minimum call _ Signature of Field Representative
_-$1200. Also applicable to cancellations within 24 hrs. of scheduled start.

USA Clearance No, Printed Name. LA & re s ie Date

697 of 1252



--- page 698 ---
Page’ of

RRAD DAILY FIELD RECORD

Time Out

PERSONAL SAFETY CHECKLIST

a en i-Viz Safety Vest
> 4 afety Glasses
DRUMID LOCATION

es es

TIME DESCRIPTION OF WORK PERFORMED

Hard Hat
Respirator

x=

O

N

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, Califomia - 94596

698 of 1252 —_________


--- page 699 ---
RRAD DAILY FIELD RECORD

OLUTIONS Page of
“™gject and Task Number: 01-CIR-001 Date:

TIME DESCRIPTION OF WORK PERFORMED

So,

2
wf

/ >
f

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, California - 94596

699 of 1252 7


--- page 700 ---
Mifieem«=«-« GREGG DRILLING, LLC |
=v : {4 950 Howe Road, Martinez, CA 94553

Ss Project Field Bill Todays Date: f\ =>. >>, | __ Ph: (925) 313-5800 www.greggdrilling.com

GDT JOB NUMBER D2214022
JOB START DATE 3/15/2021
JOB END DATE 3/18/2021
START TIME 7AM

COMPANY NAME RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc.
SITE NAME Draeger's Market

ADDRESS 222 East 4th St

CROSS STREET

EQUIPMENT Ramset S194
DRILLER/ISTAFF = Armando“
HELPER Cesar

Zi §

CITY San Mateo
PROJECT MANAGEF Kirsten Duey

RIG NO./TYPE Li? eu) HOUR |< __| [SEISMIC CPT (Interval Testy EST TO
MOB-DEMOB-TRAVEL/SERVICE RUN _ UVOSTRENTAL | AY TO
IBACKFILLTESTLOCATIONS | FOOT
IPREMIUMTIME. ~~ *+(|MANHR[—————=S (BENTONTTECHIPS BAG |
[ADDITIONAL TECHNICIAN | HOUR | —=*d;(BENTONTTEPELLETS CT PAL |
ISTANDBYMOVE TIME | HOUR | _——=*Y;([BENTONTTEDRILLMUD BAG TO
DAY JBENTONITEGROUT TT CC“‘“(RE@BAG OT
[GROUT PUMP/STEAMCLEANER | DAY | sd [FILTER SAND BAG |
IMUDSYSTEMSCS~—SCSCSSY SAY [| —S—S—~Sd ASPHALT PATCH BAG Td
DAY |_| |READY-MXCONCRETE CE BAG |
WATERTRUCKTENDER | DAY [| [PORTLAND CEMENT/QUICK SET
ISERVICETRUCKSCSECCDAY | (WOOD PLUGS Ae)
DAY [| DISPOSABLE BAILERS __
ICONST/HAND AUGER CREW (2men)_| HOUR | __——'| [PVC CASING 3/4" 2" a" OTHER [ FooT | "i |
[CONCRETE CORING DIA. | EACH |
JP.P.E. UPGRADE TIME Lae

i=

comin

Section 13751 through 13754 of the California Water Code requires that a report
be filed for every groundwater well installation or abandonment. If the client
“does not elect to submit this report, Gregg Drilling, LLC will complete the
appropriate paperwork for a $20 fee per well.
Client to complete [_]GD to complete [_]

The named parties are hereby notified that if charges for above labor, services,
equipment or materials furnished or to be furnished are not paid for in full, the
improved property referred to above may be subject to mechanics lien (per
Section 1181, et. seg. to the California Code of Civil Procedure) and construction
funds are subject to "Stop notice" action (per Section 1190.1, California Code of
Civil Procedure).

TERMS: NET 30 days. 1.5% per month finance charge on accounts 30 days
past due. The undersigned accepts the terms as stated above for services
rendered.

Time Leave

Yard: Time Arrive Site:

Time Return Yard: ae, Time Leave Site:

Lunch Start: Lunch Finish:

SUBCONTRACTOR - ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT:

EQUIPMENT DAMAGE:

WE CAN ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE OF Project Name: ee VAZTRRL p @sTask #-
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. In the event of adverse and/or hazardous oy Al;
drilling conditions, client will be informed if rate changes and/or
_#sponsibility for replacement of lost of damaged equipment. Minimum call Signature of Field Representative
‘$1200. Also applicable to cancellations within 24 hrs. of scheduled start.

uSA Clearance No. Painted Name  —'~\ ABR E& Dae

700 of 1252



--- page 701 ---
RMD DAILY FIELD RECORD

Page | of |

Project and Task Number: ()\-
Project Name: re
Location:

|
3

PERSONAL SAFETY CHECKLIST

Steel Toe Boots Wy Hi-Viz Safety Vest
Safety Classe
Po Tyvek Coveralls |

(i re
DRUM ID DESCRIPTION OF CONTENTS AND QUANTITY LOCATION

a
TIME DESCRIPTION OF WORK PERFORMED

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, California - 94596

701 of 1252


--- page 702 ---
{REGS GREGG DRILLING, LLC

Project Field Bill

RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc.
Draeger's Market
222 East 4th St

COMPANY NAME
SITE NAME
ADDRESS
CROSS STREET

CITY San Mateo
PROJECT MANAGEF Kirsten Duey

ITEM z ; UNITS | QUANTITY
RIG NO./TYPE Apes

MOB-DEMOB-TRA ERVICE RUN HOUR
THAND A\ REW (2 men

EL/S
PERDIEM TT MAN/NGT|

—

eed ed Peo aa] od
101
fe)
s)
vU
=
(S
a)
Nn
iS
N
°
ool
ac
m
pl
yO | | w| wo] wm] mj o]0
SISISISISIZlSI=/S1E/E1=
QlOSIQIQlO/@|O}O}O]O/=

P.P.E. URGRADE TIME HOUR
BORING # | DEPTH |INTERVAL/TYPE OF SAMPLING|SIZE OF WELL

=

ae
PS
aa
Pe)

Time Return Yard: f Time Leave Site:

Lunch Start: Lunch Finish:

SUBCONTRACTOR - ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT:

- my

é 3

EQUIPMENT DAMAGE:

WE CAN ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE OF
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. in the event of adverse and/or hazardous
drilling conditions, client will be informed if rate changes and/or
responsibility for replacement of lost of damaged equipment. Minimum call
out $1200. Also applicable to cancellations within 24 hrs. of scheduled start.

USA Clearance No.

Todays Date: | ) > ,

CONCRETE CORING _ DIA EACH |
ee

Z" 4" O7HER ie
EACH Soe
1/4", 1/2" TUBING
(SAMPLE-RINGS 8CAPS uw <
55-GALLON DRUM
Ez
a

950 Howe Road, Martinez, CA 94553
Ph: (925) 313-5800 www.greggdrilling.com

GDT JOB NUMBER
JOB START DATE
JOB END DATE
START TIME

D2214022
3/15/2021
3/18/2021

7AM

Ramset $194
Armando 7.
Gesar

EQUIPMENT
DRILLER/STAFF
HELPER

ITS

TEMS
EISMIC CPT (Interval Test

ACKFILL TEST LOCATIONS
ENTONITE CHIPS

ENTONITE PELLETS
ENTONITE DRILL MUD
ENTONITE GROUT

ILTER SAND

SPHALT PATCH

EADY-MIX CONCRETE
ORTLAND CEMENT/QUICK SET

(=

hil

BI S|Olm| Zz

QW=<I4
a =

lus)

DISPOSABLE BAILERS

a"

[e)
e)
a

Section 13751 through 13754 of the California Water Code requires that a report
be filed for every groundwater well installation or abandonment. If the client
does not elect to submit this report, Gregg Drilling, LLC will complete the
appropriate paperwork for a $20 fee per well. g

Client to complete [_|cp to complete
The named parties are hereby notified that if charges for above labor, services,
equipment or materials furnished or to be furnished are not paid for in full, the
improved property referred to above may be subject to mechanics lien (per
Section 1181, et. seq. to the California Code of Civil Procedure) and construction
funds are subject to "Stop notice" action (per Section 1190.1, California Code of
Civil Procedure).
TERMS: NET 30 days. 1.5% per month finance charge on accounts 30 days
past due. The undersigned accepts the terms as stated above for services
rendered. )

Project Name:

P.O./Task #

Signature of Field Representative

Printed Name Date~

702 of 1252


--- page 703 ---
oN

DAILY FIELD RECORD

- Page | of
Project and Task Number: ()\-.(- (so | Date: (P>- 2.
Project Name: |) ¢ iT IEAY S Field Activity: “

Location: “) WY eh : OVEWCCAAT | ‘ e Cry

PERSONAL SAFETY CHECKLIST

Hi-Viz Safety Vest
Safety Glasses

x
@

Steel Toe Boots

L Hard Hat
DRUM ID [OCATION
wy | Sow CotGS -lror pron : NoAK

TIME

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, California - 94596

703 of 1252


--- page 704 ---
iY

‘ ‘io
XY
Fas

OIC

RRAD DAILY FIELD RECORD

“oject and Task Number: 0)\-{_V -\o\
TIME

Page of .

DESCRIPTION OF WORK PERFORMED

ar

Lae eh eh — wi - AU ~ 4
ors ed Sis

1371 Oakland Boulevard, Suite 200 - Walnut Creek, California - 94596

704 of 1252


--- page 705 ---
fez «| GREGG DRILLING, LLC a '
[eae | aa AC - } 950 Howe Road, Martinez, CA 94553

eee ed Project Field Bill Todays Date: 9 “~~ * O% O' Ph: (925) 313-5800 _www.greggdrilling.com

GDT JOB NUMBER 02214022
JOB START DATE 3/15/2021
JOB END DATE 3/18/2021
START TIME 7AM
EQUIPMENT Ramset S194.
DRILLER/STAFF f
HELPER

COMPANY NAME — RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc.
SITE NAME Draeger'’s Market

ADDRESS 222 East 4th St

GROSS STREET

CITY San Mateo
; PROJECT MANAGEF Kirsten Duey

TEMS UNITS| QUANTITY

RIG NO./TYPE CO aw or SEISMIC CPT (Interval Test | TEST [i ea
$e.) UVOST RENTAL DAKO Dee
PERDIEMC—C—C—‘“CSCSCMAAN/NNGT[| CS |BACCKFILL TEST LOCATIONS | FOOT | cia
PREMIUMTIME SCE MANVHR] Cs (BENTONITE CHIPS BAG |
ADDITIONAL TECHNICIAN, | HOUR [i (BENTONITE PELLETS Lt as
ISTANDBY/MOVETIME CCE «XHOURR | _—S| (BENTONITE DRILL MUD |_BAG |
BENTONITE GROUT BAG |
|GROUT PUMP/STEAMCLEANER | =CDAY [i [FILTER SAND 56 0 |
IMUDSYSTEM ss C—“‘“‘CRSCOC(*dS &CéAY' «TC ,-BAG |
FORKLIFT/BOBCAT/LOADER | DAY | | [READY-MIX CONCRETE ___ | BAG [js
WATER TRUCK TENDER | DAY |_| JRORTEAND’CEMENT/QUICK SET > per fs la ;
SERVICE TRUCK | Day | (Sai ete fe stim all inneeemeceniil | EACH | P77 4
LIFTGATE TRUCK | DAY | __] [DISPOSABLE BAILERS EACH i?
CONST./HAND AUGER CREW (2 men | HOUR | ———sS&|s | PVC. CASING 3/4" 2" 4" OTHER | FOOT]
CONCRETE CORING _ DIA. | EACH | 3/4". 2" 4" OTHER | FOOT[  —_i
P.P.E. UPGRADE TIME | HOUR | ~——SY THREADED FITTINGS 3/4". 2" 4" OTHER [ EACH| ———sSY
3/4" 2" 4" OTHER
; ; ; - : ; ; OCKING CAPS 2" 4" OTHER
i C_ <a “S| [MONITORING WELL BOX (WATERTIGHT | EACH |. ee]
.|ANODIZED STAND PIPE / BOLLARDS EACH a ee
GROUNDWATER SAMPLE CONSUMABLES (EACH
1/4", 1/2" TUBING 00) 2 |
PEACH]

SAMPLE RINGS &CAPS A. = 3 1 sf aN] EACH]
| ae
|

Section 13751 through 13754 of the California Water Code requires that a report
be filed for every groundwater well installation or abandonment. If the client
does not elect to submit this report, Gregg Drilling, LLC will complete the
appropriate paperwork for a $20 fee per well.

Client to complete [~]GD to complete [_]

The named parties are hereby notified that if charges for above labor, services,
equipment or materials furnished or to be furnished are not paid for in full, the
improved property referred to above may be subject to mechanics lien (per
Section 1181, et. seq. to the California Code of Civil Procedure) and construction
funds are subject to "Stop notice" action (per Section 1190.1, California Code of
Civil Procedure).

TERMS: NET 30 days. 1.5% per month finance charge on accounts 30 days
past due. The undersigned accepts the terms as stated above for services
rendered.

Time Return Yard:

Lunch Start: Lunch Finish:

SUBCONTRACTOR - ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT:

EQUIPMENT DAMAGE:

WE CAN ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE OF

Project Name: a6 Ae P.O./Task #

UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. In the event of adverse and/or hazardous
drilling conditions, client will be informed if rate changes and/or ee
responsibility for replacement of lost of damaged equipment. Minimum call Signature of Field Representative i SY Ad
out $1200. Also applicable to cancellations within 24 hrs. of scheduled start. j

USA Clearance No. Printed Name_ st MAY Z Date >

705 of 1252



--- page 706 ---
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  
APPENDIX D 
Laboratory Analytical Reports 
706 of 1252

--- page 707 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 24, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1327778
Samples Received:
03/17/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001 TASK 2
Description:
Lane Partners
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 24, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
1 of 27
March 24, 2021
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
1 of 27
707 of 1252

--- page 708 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
6
      SB-01-COMP    L1327778-01 
6
      SB-04-COMP    L1327778-02 
8
      SB-05-COMP    L1327778-03 
10
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
12
      Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011 
12
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015 
13
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B 
14
      Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015 
21
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
22
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
23
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
24
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
2 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
2 of 27
708 of 1252

--- page 709 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-01-COMP  L1327778-01  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/20/21 14:35
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1637263
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/19/21 10:44
ACG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1639065
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/23/21 21:23
TPR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1636135
1
03/18/21 14:15
03/18/21 18:50
TJD
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-04-COMP  L1327778-02  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/20/21 14:57
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1637263
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/19/21 11:03
ACG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1639065
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/23/21 21:42
TPR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1636135
1
03/18/21 14:15
03/18/21 19:28
TJD
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-05-COMP  L1327778-03  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/20/21 15:19
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1637263
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/19/21 11:22
ACG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1639065
1
03/18/21 08:43
03/23/21 22:02
TPR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1636135
1
03/18/21 14:15
03/18/21 19:41
TJD
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
3 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
3 of 27
709 of 1252

--- page 710 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
4 of 27
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
4 of 27
710 of 1252

--- page 711 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-01-COMP
L1327778-01
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.124
B J
0.0918
0.145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
SB-04-COMP
L1327778-02
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.111
B J
0.0913
0.144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
SB-04-COMP
L1327778-02
Tetrachloroethene
0.00187
J
0.00129
0.00360
1
03/23/2021 21:42
WG1639065
SB-05-COMP
L1327778-03
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.110
B J
0.0940
0.148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
SB-05-COMP
L1327778-03
Tetrachloroethene
0.00141
J
0.00133
0.00370
1
03/23/2021 22:02
WG1639065
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-01-COMP
L1327778-01
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.52
J
0.896
4.89
1
03/18/2021 18:50
WG1636135
SB-05-COMP
L1327778-03
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
2.02
J
0.909
4.96
1
03/18/2021 19:41
WG1636135
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
5 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
5 of 27
711 of 1252

--- page 712 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1327778
SB-01-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
81.8
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
J3
0.0406
0.122
1
03/20/2021 14:35
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
92.8
77.0-120
03/20/2021 14:35
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0528
0.0723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00522
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Benzene
U
0.000675
0.00145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Bromobenzene
U
0.00130
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00105
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Bromoform
U
0.00169
0.0361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Bromomethane
U
0.00285
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00759
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00416
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00282
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Carbon tetrachloride
U
J3
0.00130
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000304
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000885
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Chloroethane
U
0.00246
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Chloroform
U
0.00149
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Chloromethane
U
0.00629
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00125
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000651
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00564
0.0361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000937
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Dibromomethane
U
0.00108
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000614
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000867
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00101
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
J3
0.00233
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000710
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000938
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
J3
0.000876
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00106
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00150
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00205
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00117
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000724
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00109
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00165
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00200
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000593
0.00145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00107
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00867
0.0361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000614
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00369
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.124
B J
0.0918
0.145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00960
0.0361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00330
0.0361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
6 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
6 of 27
712 of 1252

--- page 713 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1327778
SB-01-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000506
0.00145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Naphthalene
U
0.00706
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00137
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Styrene
U
0.000331
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00137
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00100
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
J3
0.00109
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.00130
0.00361
1
03/23/2021 21:23
WG1639065
Toluene
U
0.00188
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0106
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00636
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00133
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000863
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Trichloroethene
U
0.000844
0.00145
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00120
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00234
0.0181
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00228
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00228
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00289
0.00723
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Vinyl chloride
U
J3
0.00168
0.00361
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00127
0.00940
1
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
113
75.0-131
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
101
75.0-131
03/23/2021 21:23
WG1639065
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
91.5
67.0-138
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
93.4
67.0-138
03/23/2021 21:23
WG1639065
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
90.0
70.0-130
03/19/2021 10:44
WG1637263
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
74.3
70.0-130
03/23/2021 21:23
WG1639065
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.52
J
0.896
4.89
1
03/18/2021 18:50
WG1636135
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.63
4.89
1
03/18/2021 18:50
WG1636135
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.63
4.89
1
03/18/2021 18:50
WG1636135
    (S) o-Terphenyl
91.6
18.0-148
03/18/2021 18:50
WG1636135
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
7 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
7 of 27
713 of 1252

--- page 714 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1327778
SB-04-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
82.0
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0405
0.122
1
03/20/2021 14:57
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
90.1
77.0-120
03/20/2021 14:57
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0525
0.0719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00519
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Benzene
U
0.000672
0.00144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Bromobenzene
U
0.00129
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00104
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Bromoform
U
0.00168
0.0360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Bromomethane
U
0.00283
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00755
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00414
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00280
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00129
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000302
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000880
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Chloroethane
U
0.00245
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Chloroform
U
0.00148
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Chloromethane
U
0.00626
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00124
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000647
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00561
0.0360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000932
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Dibromomethane
U
0.00108
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000611
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000863
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00101
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00232
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000706
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000934
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000872
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00106
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00150
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00204
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00116
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000721
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00109
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00164
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00198
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000590
0.00144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00106
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00863
0.0360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000611
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00367
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.111
B J
0.0913
0.144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00955
0.0360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00328
0.0360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
8 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
8 of 27
714 of 1252

--- page 715 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1327778
SB-04-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000503
0.00144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Naphthalene
U
0.00702
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00137
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Styrene
U
0.000329
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00136
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00100
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00108
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Tetrachloroethene
0.00187
J
0.00129
0.00360
1
03/23/2021 21:42
WG1639065
Toluene
U
0.00187
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0105
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00633
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00133
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000859
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Trichloroethene
U
0.000840
0.00144
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00119
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00233
0.0180
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00227
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00227
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.00719
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00167
0.00360
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00127
0.00935
1
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
113
75.0-131
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
101
75.0-131
03/23/2021 21:42
WG1639065
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.0
67.0-138
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
92.3
67.0-138
03/23/2021 21:42
WG1639065
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
91.9
70.0-130
03/19/2021 11:03
WG1637263
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
73.9
70.0-130
03/23/2021 21:42
WG1639065
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
0.894
4.88
1
03/18/2021 19:28
WG1636135
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.62
4.88
1
03/18/2021 19:28
WG1636135
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.62
4.88
1
03/18/2021 19:28
WG1636135
    (S) o-Terphenyl
75.7
18.0-148
03/18/2021 19:28
WG1636135
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
9 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
9 of 27
715 of 1252

--- page 716 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1327778
SB-05-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
80.7
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0412
0.124
1
03/20/2021 15:19
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
91.0
77.0-120
03/20/2021 15:19
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0540
0.0740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00534
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Benzene
U
0.000691
0.00148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Bromobenzene
U
0.00133
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00107
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Bromoform
U
0.00173
0.0370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Bromomethane
U
0.00292
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00777
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00426
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00289
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00133
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000311
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000906
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Chloroethane
U
0.00252
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Chloroform
U
0.00152
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Chloromethane
U
0.00644
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00128
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000666
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00577
0.0370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000959
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Dibromomethane
U
0.00111
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000629
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000888
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00104
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00238
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000727
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000960
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000897
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00109
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00154
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00210
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00120
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000741
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00112
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00169
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00204
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000607
0.00148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00109
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00888
0.0370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000629
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00377
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.110
B J
0.0940
0.148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00983
0.0370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00337
0.0370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
10 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
10 of 27
716 of 1252

--- page 717 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1327778
SB-05-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000518
0.00148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Naphthalene
U
0.00722
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00141
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Styrene
U
0.000339
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00140
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00103
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00112
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Tetrachloroethene
0.00141
J
0.00133
0.00370
1
03/23/2021 22:02
WG1639065
Toluene
U
0.00192
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0108
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00651
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00137
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000883
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Trichloroethene
U
0.000864
0.00148
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00122
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00240
0.0185
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00234
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00234
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00296
0.00740
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00172
0.00370
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00130
0.00962
1
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
112
75.0-131
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
75.0-131
03/23/2021 22:02
WG1639065
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
88.9
67.0-138
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
92.8
67.0-138
03/23/2021 22:02
WG1639065
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
96.0
70.0-130
03/19/2021 11:22
WG1637263
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
76.0
70.0-130
03/23/2021 22:02
WG1639065
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
2.02
J
0.909
4.96
1
03/18/2021 19:41
WG1636135
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/18/2021 19:41
WG1636135
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/18/2021 19:41
WG1636135
    (S) o-Terphenyl
74.8
18.0-148
03/18/2021 19:41
WG1636135
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
11 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
11 of 27
717 of 1252

--- page 718 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1636652
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3632676-1  03/18/21 17:02
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.000
L1327770-13 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1327770-13  03/18/21 17:02 • (DUP) R3632676-3  03/18/21 17:02
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
87.7
88.4
1
0.819
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3632676-2  03/18/21 17:02
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
12 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
12 of 27
718 of 1252

--- page 719 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633040-2  03/20/21 11:49
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0332
0.100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
97.1
 
 
77.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633040-1  03/20/21 11:05
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5.50
5.24
95.3
72.0-125
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
111
77.0-120
 
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/20/21 14:35 • (MS) R3633040-3  03/20/21 21:12 • (MSD) R3633040-4  03/20/21 21:34
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.72
U
1.54
3.15
22.9
46.9
1
10.0-141
J3
68.8
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
86.2
93.0
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/20/21 19:22 • (MS) R3633040-5  03/20/21 21:56 • (MSD) R3633040-6  03/20/21 22:18
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.83
U
0.993
2.47
14.5
36.2
1
10.0-141
J3
85.3
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
86.7
94.5
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
13 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
13 of 27
719 of 1252

--- page 720 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633732-3  03/19/21 08:05
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Acetone
U
0.0365
0.0500
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00361
0.0125
Benzene
U
0.000467
0.00100
Bromobenzene
U
0.000900
0.0125
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000725
0.00250
Bromoform
U
0.00117
0.0250
Bromomethane
U
0.00197
0.0125
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00525
0.0125
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.0125
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00195
0.00500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.000898
0.00500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000210
0.00250
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000612
0.00250
Chloroethane
U
0.00170
0.00500
Chloroform
U
0.00103
0.00250
Chloromethane
U
0.00435
0.0125
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000865
0.00250
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000450
0.00500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00390
0.0250
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000648
0.00250
Dibromomethane
U
0.000750
0.00500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000425
0.00500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000600
0.00500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000700
0.00500
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00161
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000491
0.00250
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000649
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000606
0.00250
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000734
0.00250
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00104
0.00500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00142
0.00500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.000809
0.00250
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000501
0.00500
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000757
0.00250
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00114
0.00500
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00138
0.00250
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000410
0.00100
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000737
0.00250
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00600
0.0250
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000425
0.00250
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
14 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
14 of 27
720 of 1252

--- page 721 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633732-3  03/19/21 08:05
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00255
0.00500
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.103
0.0635
0.100
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00664
0.0250
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00228
0.0250
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000350
0.00100
Naphthalene
U
0.00488
0.0125
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.000950
0.00500
Styrene
U
0.000229
0.0125
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000948
0.00250
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000695
0.00250
Toluene
U
0.00130
0.00500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000754
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00733
0.0125
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00440
0.0125
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.000923
0.00250
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000597
0.00250
Trichloroethene
U
0.000584
0.00100
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.000827
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00162
0.0125
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00200
0.00500
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00116
0.00250
Xylenes, Total
U
0.000880
0.00650
    (S) Toluene-d8
114
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.7
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
88.8
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3633732-1  03/19/21 06:49 • (LCSD) R3633732-2  03/19/21 07:08
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.625
1.37
1.23
219
197
10.0-160
J4
J4
10.8
31
Acrylonitrile
0.625
0.936
0.872
150
140
45.0-153
7.08
22
Benzene
0.125
0.105
0.101
84.0
80.8
70.0-123
3.88
20
Bromobenzene
0.125
0.120
0.118
96.0
94.4
73.0-121
1.68
20
Bromodichloromethane
0.125
0.113
0.106
90.4
84.8
73.0-121
6.39
20
Bromoform
0.125
0.132
0.128
106
102
64.0-132
3.08
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
15 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
15 of 27
721 of 1252

--- page 722 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3633732-1  03/19/21 06:49 • (LCSD) R3633732-2  03/19/21 07:08
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Bromomethane
0.125
0.112
0.103
89.6
82.4
56.0-147
8.37
20
n-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.0997
0.103
79.8
82.4
68.0-135
3.26
20
sec-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.111
0.113
88.8
90.4
74.0-130
1.79
20
tert-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.108
0.109
86.4
87.2
75.0-127
0.922
20
Carbon tetrachloride
0.125
0.102
0.107
81.6
85.6
66.0-128
4.78
20
Chlorobenzene
0.125
0.120
0.115
96.0
92.0
76.0-128
4.26
20
Chlorodibromomethane
0.125
0.124
0.119
99.2
95.2
74.0-127
4.12
20
Chloroethane
0.125
0.107
0.106
85.6
84.8
61.0-134
0.939
20
Chloroform
0.125
0.107
0.102
85.6
81.6
72.0-123
4.78
20
Chloromethane
0.125
0.112
0.108
89.6
86.4
51.0-138
3.64
20
2-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.118
0.119
94.4
95.2
75.0-124
0.844
20
4-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.120
0.118
96.0
94.4
75.0-124
1.68
20
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.125
0.137
0.127
110
102
59.0-130
7.58
20
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.125
0.125
0.120
100
96.0
74.0-128
4.08
20
Dibromomethane
0.125
0.109
0.101
87.2
80.8
75.0-122
7.62
20
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.119
0.118
95.2
94.4
76.0-124
0.844
20
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.116
0.118
92.8
94.4
76.0-125
1.71
20
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.115
0.112
92.0
89.6
77.0-121
2.64
20
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.125
0.101
0.0955
80.8
76.4
43.0-156
5.60
20
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.106
0.107
84.8
85.6
70.0-127
0.939
20
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.108
0.105
86.4
84.0
65.0-131
2.82
20
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.112
0.108
89.6
86.4
65.0-131
3.64
20
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.103
0.100
82.4
80.0
73.0-125
2.96
20
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.108
0.104
86.4
83.2
71.0-125
3.77
20
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.121
0.117
96.8
93.6
74.0-125
3.36
20
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.106
0.106
84.8
84.8
73.0-125
0.000
20
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.126
0.119
101
95.2
80.0-125
5.71
20
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.106
0.103
84.8
82.4
76.0-127
2.87
20
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.123
0.117
98.4
93.6
73.0-127
5.00
20
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.0954
0.101
76.3
80.8
59.0-135
5.70
20
Di-isopropyl ether
0.125
0.118
0.119
94.4
95.2
60.0-136
0.844
20
Ethylbenzene
0.125
0.117
0.114
93.6
91.2
74.0-126
2.60
20
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.125
0.0975
0.0959
78.0
76.7
57.0-150
1.65
20
Isopropylbenzene
0.125
0.106
0.107
84.8
85.6
72.0-127
0.939
20
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.125
0.104
0.107
83.2
85.6
72.0-133
2.84
20
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.625
0.905
0.907
145
145
30.0-160
0.221
24
Methylene Chloride
0.125
0.103
0.104
82.4
83.2
68.0-123
0.966
20
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.625
0.829
0.769
133
123
56.0-143
7.51
20
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.125
0.0976
0.0979
78.1
78.3
66.0-132
0.307
20
Naphthalene
0.125
0.102
0.102
81.6
81.6
59.0-130
0.000
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
16 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
16 of 27
722 of 1252

--- page 723 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3633732-1  03/19/21 06:49 • (LCSD) R3633732-2  03/19/21 07:08
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
n-Propylbenzene
0.125
0.119
0.118
95.2
94.4
74.0-126
0.844
20
Styrene
0.125
0.110
0.109
88.0
87.2
72.0-127
0.913
20
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.109
0.110
87.2
88.0
74.0-129
0.913
20
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.139
0.138
111
110
68.0-128
0.722
20
Toluene
0.125
0.119
0.115
95.2
92.0
75.0-121
3.42
20
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.125
0.112
0.106
89.6
84.8
61.0-139
5.50
20
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0860
0.0919
68.8
73.5
59.0-139
6.63
20
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0906
0.0964
72.5
77.1
62.0-137
6.20
20
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.0912
0.0992
73.0
79.4
69.0-126
8.40
20
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.120
0.116
96.0
92.8
78.0-123
3.39
20
Trichloroethene
0.125
0.109
0.103
87.2
82.4
76.0-126
5.66
20
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.125
0.0955
0.0962
76.4
77.0
61.0-142
0.730
20
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.125
0.143
0.139
114
111
67.0-129
2.84
20
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.108
0.110
86.4
88.0
74.0-124
1.83
20
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.110
0.110
88.0
88.0
70.0-126
0.000
20
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.112
0.110
89.6
88.0
73.0-127
1.80
20
Vinyl chloride
0.125
0.106
0.0976
84.8
78.1
63.0-134
8.25
20
Xylenes, Total
0.375
0.341
0.334
90.9
89.1
72.0-127
2.07
20
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
108
106
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
94.4
93.1
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
104
103
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/19/21 10:44 • (MS) R3633732-4  03/19/21 15:29 • (MSD) R3633732-5  03/19/21 15:48
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.904
U
1.10
0.749
121
82.9
1
10.0-160
37.7
40
Acrylonitrile
0.904
U
0.828
0.600
91.7
66.4
1
10.0-160
32.0
40
Benzene
0.181
U
0.0743
0.0912
41.1
50.5
1
10.0-149
20.4
37
Bromobenzene
0.181
U
0.122
0.121
67.4
66.7
1
10.0-156
0.955
38
Bromodichloromethane
0.181
U
0.101
0.0998
56.0
55.2
1
10.0-143
1.44
37
Bromoform
0.181
U
0.150
0.120
83.2
66.6
1
10.0-146
22.1
36
Bromomethane
0.181
U
0.0496
0.0675
27.4
37.4
1
10.0-149
30.6
38
n-Butylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0765
0.0905
42.3
50.1
1
10.0-160
16.8
40
sec-Butylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0849
0.105
47.0
57.9
1
10.0-159
20.9
39
tert-Butylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0859
0.102
47.5
56.5
1
10.0-156
17.2
39
Carbon tetrachloride
0.181
U
0.0629
0.0935
34.8
51.8
1
10.0-145
J3
39.2
37
Chlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.0990
0.106
54.8
58.9
1
10.0-152
7.18
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
17 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
17 of 27
723 of 1252

--- page 724 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/19/21 10:44 • (MS) R3633732-4  03/19/21 15:29 • (MSD) R3633732-5  03/19/21 15:48
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Chlorodibromomethane
0.181
U
0.134
0.115
73.9
63.8
1
10.0-146
14.6
37
Chloroethane
0.181
U
0.0320
0.0421
17.7
23.3
1
10.0-146
27.3
40
Chloroform
0.181
U
0.0831
0.0931
46.0
51.5
1
10.0-146
11.3
37
Chloromethane
0.181
U
0.0693
0.0901
38.3
49.8
1
10.0-159
26.1
37
2-Chlorotoluene
0.181
U
0.0944
0.107
52.2
59.2
1
10.0-159
12.5
38
4-Chlorotoluene
0.181
U
0.102
0.109
56.3
60.6
1
10.0-155
7.26
39
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.181
U
0.160
0.120
88.8
66.4
1
10.0-151
28.9
39
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.181
U
0.145
0.121
80.0
67.0
1
10.0-148
17.6
34
Dibromomethane
0.181
U
0.103
0.0963
57.1
53.3
1
10.0-147
6.96
35
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.115
0.107
63.7
59.2
1
10.0-155
7.29
37
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.103
0.104
57.0
57.4
1
10.0-153
0.839
38
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.104
0.104
57.8
57.5
1
10.0-151
0.416
38
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.181
U
0.0646
0.100
35.8
55.5
1
10.0-160
J3
43.3
35
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.181
U
0.0802
0.0967
44.4
53.5
1
10.0-147
18.6
37
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.181
U
0.108
0.0886
59.9
49.0
1
10.0-148
20.0
35
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.181
U
0.0669
0.0998
37.0
55.2
1
10.0-155
J3
39.4
37
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.181
U
0.0734
0.0866
40.6
47.9
1
10.0-149
16.4
37
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.181
U
0.0636
0.0830
35.2
45.9
1
10.0-150
26.4
37
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.181
U
0.101
0.112
55.7
62.1
1
10.0-148
10.9
37
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.181
U
0.0636
0.0869
35.2
48.1
1
10.0-153
30.9
35
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.181
U
0.143
0.126
79.2
69.8
1
10.0-154
12.6
35
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.181
U
0.105
0.101
58.2
56.0
1
10.0-151
3.92
37
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.181
U
0.142
0.125
78.6
69.4
1
10.0-148
12.5
37
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.181
U
0.0649
0.0886
35.9
49.0
1
10.0-138
30.9
36
Di-isopropyl ether
0.181
U
0.113
0.113
62.3
62.7
1
10.0-147
0.640
36
Ethylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0801
0.0985
44.3
54.5
1
10.0-160
20.6
38
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.181
U
0.0808
0.0862
44.7
47.7
1
10.0-160
6.41
40
Isopropylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0720
0.0883
39.8
48.9
1
10.0-155
20.4
38
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.181
U
0.0836
0.0964
46.2
53.4
1
10.0-160
14.3
40
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.904
0.124
1.23
0.908
123
86.8
1
10.0-160
30.3
40
Methylene Chloride
0.181
U
0.105
0.108
58.1
59.8
1
10.0-141
2.85
37
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.904
U
1.08
0.791
119
87.5
1
10.0-160
30.7
35
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.181
U
0.108
0.102
60.0
56.6
1
11.0-147
5.76
35
Naphthalene
0.181
U
0.105
0.0902
58.0
49.9
1
10.0-160
15.0
36
n-Propylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0891
0.107
49.3
59.3
1
10.0-158
18.4
38
Styrene
0.181
U
0.0901
0.0925
49.8
51.2
1
10.0-160
2.69
40
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.181
U
0.0959
0.0977
53.0
54.1
1
10.0-149
1.94
39
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.181
U
0.211
0.159
117
88.0
1
10.0-160
28.1
35
Toluene
0.181
U
0.0889
0.107
49.2
59.2
1
10.0-156
18.5
38
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
18 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
18 of 27
724 of 1252

--- page 725 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637263
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/19/21 10:44 • (MS) R3633732-4  03/19/21 15:29 • (MSD) R3633732-5  03/19/21 15:48
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.181
U
0.0704
0.111
39.0
61.4
1
10.0-160
J3
44.8
36
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.0866
0.0875
47.9
48.4
1
10.0-160
0.997
40
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.181
U
0.0849
0.0849
47.0
47.0
1
10.0-160
0.000
40
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.181
U
0.0674
0.0843
37.3
46.6
1
10.0-144
22.3
35
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.181
U
0.145
0.125
80.0
69.1
1
10.0-160
14.6
35
Trichloroethene
0.181
U
0.0669
0.0896
37.0
49.6
1
10.0-156
29.0
38
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.181
U
0.0383
0.0568
21.2
31.4
1
10.0-160
38.9
40
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.181
U
0.210
0.150
116
83.2
1
10.0-156
32.9
35
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0980
0.100
54.2
55.4
1
10.0-160
2.19
36
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0876
0.0986
48.5
54.6
1
10.0-160
11.8
36
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.181
U
0.0893
0.0999
49.4
55.3
1
10.0-160
11.2
38
Vinyl chloride
0.181
U
0.0607
0.0915
33.6
50.6
1
10.0-160
J3
40.5
37
Xylenes, Total
0.542
U
0.234
0.263
43.2
48.5
1
10.0-160
11.6
38
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
 
112
111
 
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
 
89.8
88.4
 
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
 
93.8
92.8
 
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
19 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
19 of 27
725 of 1252

--- page 726 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639065
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634111-2  03/23/21 19:29
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.000896
0.00250
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
94.8
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
76.3
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634111-1  03/23/21 18:51
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Tetrachloroethene
0.125
0.108
86.4
70.0-136
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
100
75.0-131
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
91.8
67.0-138
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
77.4
70.0-130
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
20 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
20 of 27
726 of 1252

--- page 727 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1636135
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
L1327778-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3632479-1  03/18/21 18:25
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
0.733
4.00
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
    (S) o-Terphenyl
91.0
 
 
18.0-148
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3632479-2  03/18/21 18:37
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
25.0
18.5
74.0
50.0-150
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
25.0
19.7
78.8
50.0-150
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
78.7
18.0-148
 
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/18/21 18:50 • (MS) R3632479-3  03/18/21 19:03 • (MSD) R3632479-4  03/18/21 19:15
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
29.6
U
20.0
19.1
67.8
64.2
1
50.0-150
5.00
20
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
29.6
1.52
25.7
22.0
81.7
69.0
1
50.0-150
15.4
20
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
 
 
71.2
69.0
 
18.0-148
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
21 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
21 of 27
727 of 1252

--- page 728 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
(dry)
Results are reported based on the dry weight of the sample. [this will only be present on a dry report basis for soils].
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
MDL (dry)
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
RDL (dry)
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
(S)
Surrogate (Surrogate Standard) - Analytes added to every blank, sample, Laboratory Control Sample/Duplicate and 
Matrix Spike/Duplicate; used to evaluate analytical efficiency by measuring recovery. Surrogates are not expected to be 
detected in all environmental media.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
B
The same analyte is found in the associated blank.
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J3
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J4
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for accuracy.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
22 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
22 of 27
728 of 1252

--- page 729 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:06
23 of 27
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1327778
03/24/21 10:41
23 of 27
729 of 1252

--- page 730 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 24, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1328417
Samples Received:
03/18/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001 TASK 2
Description:
Lane Partners, 222 E. 4th Ave
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 24, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
1 of 26
March 24, 2021
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
1 of 26
730 of 1252

--- page 731 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
6
      SB-06-COMP    L1328417-01 
6
      SB-09-COMP    L1328417-02 
8
      SB-10-COMP    L1328417-03 
10
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
12
      Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011 
12
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015 
13
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B 
14
      Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015 
20
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
21
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
22
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
23
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
2 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
2 of 26
731 of 1252

--- page 732 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-06-COMP  L1328417-01  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
MT
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/20/21 19:22
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638031
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/21/21 00:25
JHH
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 04:17
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-09-COMP  L1328417-02  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
MT
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/20/21 19:44
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638031
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/21/21 00:44
JHH
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 05:00
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-10-COMP  L1328417-03  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
MT
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1637800
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/20/21 20:06
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638031
1
03/18/21 17:48
03/21/21 01:02
JHH
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 05:15
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
3 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
3 of 26
732 of 1252

--- page 733 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
4 of 26
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
4 of 26
733 of 1252

--- page 734 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-06-COMP
L1328417-01
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.142
B J
0.0941
0.148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
SB-06-COMP
L1328417-01
Tetrachloroethene
0.00423
0.00133
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
SB-06-COMP
L1328417-01
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00385
J
0.00234
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
SB-06-COMP
L1328417-01
Xylenes, Total
0.00261
J
0.00130
0.00964
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
SB-09-COMP
L1328417-02
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.150
B
0.0827
0.130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
SB-09-COMP
L1328417-02
Tetrachloroethene
0.00349
0.00117
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
SB-10-COMP
L1328417-03
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.119
B J
0.0806
0.127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
SB-10-COMP
L1328417-03
Tetrachloroethene
0.00352
0.00114
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-06-COMP
L1328417-01
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
0.933
J
0.910
4.96
1
03/24/2021 04:17
WG1639129
SB-09-COMP
L1328417-02
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.12
J
0.844
4.60
1
03/24/2021 05:00
WG1639129
SB-10-COMP
L1328417-03
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.12
J
0.832
4.54
1
03/24/2021 05:15
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
5 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
5 of 26
734 of 1252

--- page 735 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1328417
SB-06-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
80.6
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
J3
0.0412
0.124
1
03/20/2021 19:22
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
91.5
77.0-120
03/20/2021 19:22
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J3 J4
0.0541
0.0741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00535
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Benzene
U
0.000692
0.00148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Bromobenzene
U
0.00133
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00107
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Bromoform
U
0.00173
0.0371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Bromomethane
U
0.00292
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00778
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00427
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00289
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00133
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000311
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000907
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Chloroethane
U
0.00252
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Chloroform
U
0.00153
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Chloromethane
U
0.00645
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00128
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000667
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00578
0.0371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000961
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Dibromomethane
U
0.00111
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000630
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000890
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00104
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00239
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000728
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000962
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000898
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00109
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00154
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00211
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00120
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000743
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00112
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00169
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00205
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000608
0.00148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00109
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00890
0.0371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000630
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00378
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.142
B J
0.0941
0.148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Methylene Chloride
U
J3
0.00984
0.0371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00338
0.0371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
6 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
6 of 26
735 of 1252

--- page 736 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1328417
SB-06-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000519
0.00148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Naphthalene
U
0.00723
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00141
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Styrene
U
0.000340
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00141
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00103
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00112
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Tetrachloroethene
0.00423
0.00133
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Toluene
U
0.00193
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
J4
0.0109
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00652
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00137
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000885
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Trichloroethene
U
0.000866
0.00148
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00123
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00240
0.0185
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00385
J
0.00234
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00234
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00297
0.00741
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00172
0.00371
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Xylenes, Total
0.00261
J
0.00130
0.00964
1
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
    (S) Toluene-d8
114
75.0-131
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
87.9
67.0-138
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
89.6
70.0-130
03/21/2021 00:25
WG1638031
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
0.933
J
0.910
4.96
1
03/24/2021 04:17
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/24/2021 04:17
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/24/2021 04:17
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
73.4
18.0-148
03/24/2021 04:17
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
7 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
7 of 26
736 of 1252

--- page 737 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1328417
SB-09-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
86.9
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0382
0.115
1
03/20/2021 19:44
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
91.5
77.0-120
03/20/2021 19:44
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0475
0.0651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00470
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Benzene
U
0.000608
0.00130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Bromobenzene
U
0.00117
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000944
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Bromoform
U
0.00152
0.0326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Bromomethane
U
0.00257
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00684
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00375
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00254
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00117
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000273
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000797
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Chloroethane
U
0.00221
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Chloroform
U
0.00134
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Chloromethane
U
0.00567
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00113
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000586
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00508
0.0326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000844
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Dibromomethane
U
0.000977
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000553
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000781
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000912
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00210
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000639
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000845
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000789
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000956
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00135
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00185
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00105
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000652
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000986
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00148
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00180
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000534
0.00130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000960
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00781
0.0326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000553
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00332
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.150
B
0.0827
0.130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00865
0.0326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00297
0.0326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
8 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
8 of 26
737 of 1252

--- page 738 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1328417
SB-09-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000456
0.00130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Naphthalene
U
0.00636
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00124
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Styrene
U
0.000298
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00123
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000905
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000982
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Tetrachloroethene
0.00349
0.00117
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Toluene
U
0.00169
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
J4
0.00955
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00573
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00120
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000777
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Trichloroethene
U
0.000761
0.00130
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00108
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00211
0.0163
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00206
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00206
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00260
0.00651
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00151
0.00326
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00115
0.00846
1
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
    (S) Toluene-d8
113
75.0-131
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.8
67.0-138
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
93.0
70.0-130
03/21/2021 00:44
WG1638031
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.12
J
0.844
4.60
1
03/24/2021 05:00
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.53
4.60
1
03/24/2021 05:00
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.53
4.60
1
03/24/2021 05:00
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
63.6
18.0-148
03/24/2021 05:00
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
9 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
9 of 26
738 of 1252

--- page 739 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1328417
SB-10-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
88.2
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0377
0.113
1
03/20/2021 20:06
WG1637800
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
91.1
77.0-120
03/20/2021 20:06
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0463
0.0635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00458
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Benzene
U
0.000593
0.00127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Bromobenzene
U
0.00114
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000920
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Bromoform
U
0.00149
0.0317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Bromomethane
U
0.00250
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00667
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00366
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00248
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00114
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000267
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000777
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Chloroethane
U
0.00216
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Chloroform
U
0.00131
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Chloromethane
U
0.00552
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00110
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000571
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00495
0.0317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000823
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Dibromomethane
U
0.000952
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000540
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000762
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000889
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00204
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000623
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000824
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000769
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000932
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00132
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00180
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00103
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000636
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000961
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00145
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00175
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000521
0.00127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000936
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00762
0.0317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000540
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00324
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.119
B J
0.0806
0.127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00843
0.0317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00289
0.0317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
10 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
10 of 26
739 of 1252

--- page 740 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1328417
SB-10-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000444
0.00127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Naphthalene
U
0.00620
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00121
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Styrene
U
0.000291
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00120
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000882
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000957
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Tetrachloroethene
0.00352
0.00114
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Toluene
U
0.00165
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
J4
0.00931
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00559
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00117
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000758
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Trichloroethene
U
0.000741
0.00127
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00105
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00206
0.0159
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00201
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00201
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00254
0.00635
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00147
0.00317
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00112
0.00825
1
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
    (S) Toluene-d8
112
75.0-131
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
87.0
67.0-138
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
91.3
70.0-130
03/21/2021 01:02
WG1638031
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.12
J
0.832
4.54
1
03/24/2021 05:15
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.51
4.54
1
03/24/2021 05:15
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.51
4.54
1
03/24/2021 05:15
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
62.0
18.0-148
03/24/2021 05:15
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
11 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
11 of 26
740 of 1252

--- page 741 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637327
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1328417-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633181-1  03/20/21 15:34
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.000
L1328376-02 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1328376-02  03/20/21 15:34 • (DUP) R3633181-3  03/20/21 15:34
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
85.0
86.1
1
1.20
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633181-2  03/20/21 15:34
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
12 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
12 of 26
741 of 1252

--- page 742 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637800
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1328417-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633040-2  03/20/21 11:49
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0332
0.100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
97.1
 
 
77.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633040-1  03/20/21 11:05
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5.50
5.24
95.3
72.0-125
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
111
77.0-120
 
L1327778-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1327778-01  03/20/21 14:35 • (MS) R3633040-3  03/20/21 21:12 • (MSD) R3633040-4  03/20/21 21:34
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.72
U
1.54
3.15
22.9
46.9
1
10.0-141
J3
68.8
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
86.2
93.0
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/20/21 19:22 • (MS) R3633040-5  03/20/21 21:56 • (MSD) R3633040-6  03/20/21 22:18
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.83
U
0.993
2.47
14.5
36.2
1
10.0-141
J3
85.3
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
86.7
94.5
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
13 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
13 of 26
742 of 1252

--- page 743 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633129-2  03/20/21 20:57
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Acetone
U
0.0365
0.0500
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00361
0.0125
Benzene
U
0.000467
0.00100
Bromobenzene
U
0.000900
0.0125
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000725
0.00250
Bromoform
U
0.00117
0.0250
Bromomethane
U
0.00197
0.0125
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00525
0.0125
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.0125
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00195
0.00500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.000898
0.00500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000210
0.00250
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000612
0.00250
Chloroethane
U
0.00170
0.00500
Chloroform
U
0.00103
0.00250
Chloromethane
U
0.00435
0.0125
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000865
0.00250
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000450
0.00500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00390
0.0250
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000648
0.00250
Dibromomethane
U
0.000750
0.00500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000425
0.00500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000600
0.00500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000700
0.00500
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00161
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000491
0.00250
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000649
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000606
0.00250
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000734
0.00250
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00104
0.00500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00142
0.00500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.000809
0.00250
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000501
0.00500
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000757
0.00250
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00114
0.00500
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00138
0.00250
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000410
0.00100
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000737
0.00250
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00600
0.0250
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000425
0.00250
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
14 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
14 of 26
743 of 1252

--- page 744 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633129-2  03/20/21 20:57
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00255
0.00500
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.108
0.0635
0.100
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00664
0.0250
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00228
0.0250
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000350
0.00100
Naphthalene
U
0.00488
0.0125
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.000950
0.00500
Styrene
U
0.000229
0.0125
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000948
0.00250
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000695
0.00250
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.000896
0.00250
Toluene
U
0.00130
0.00500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000754
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00733
0.0125
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00440
0.0125
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.000923
0.00250
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000597
0.00250
Trichloroethene
U
0.000584
0.00100
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.000827
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00162
0.0125
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00200
0.00500
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00116
0.00250
Xylenes, Total
U
0.000880
0.00650
    (S) Toluene-d8
111
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.4
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
90.9
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633129-1  03/20/21 20:00
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Acetone
0.625
1.31
210
10.0-160
J4
Acrylonitrile
0.625
0.800
128
45.0-153
Benzene
0.125
0.101
80.8
70.0-123
Bromobenzene
0.125
0.122
97.6
73.0-121
Bromodichloromethane
0.125
0.107
85.6
73.0-121
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
15 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
15 of 26
744 of 1252

--- page 745 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633129-1  03/20/21 20:00
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Bromoform
0.125
0.120
96.0
64.0-132
Bromomethane
0.125
0.109
87.2
56.0-147
n-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.103
82.4
68.0-135
sec-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.113
90.4
74.0-130
tert-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.108
86.4
75.0-127
Carbon tetrachloride
0.125
0.0962
77.0
66.0-128
Chlorobenzene
0.125
0.113
90.4
76.0-128
Chlorodibromomethane
0.125
0.118
94.4
74.0-127
Chloroethane
0.125
0.106
84.8
61.0-134
Chloroform
0.125
0.102
81.6
72.0-123
Chloromethane
0.125
0.107
85.6
51.0-138
2-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.118
94.4
75.0-124
4-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.124
99.2
75.0-124
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.125
0.121
96.8
59.0-130
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.125
0.117
93.6
74.0-128
Dibromomethane
0.125
0.105
84.0
75.0-122
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.112
89.6
76.0-124
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.117
93.6
76.0-125
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.110
88.0
77.0-121
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.125
0.0867
69.4
43.0-156
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.108
86.4
70.0-127
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.105
84.0
65.0-131
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.106
84.8
65.0-131
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.0988
79.0
73.0-125
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.0994
79.5
71.0-125
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.115
92.0
74.0-125
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.100
80.0
73.0-125
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.114
91.2
80.0-125
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.103
82.4
76.0-127
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.121
96.8
73.0-127
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.113
90.4
59.0-135
Di-isopropyl ether
0.125
0.117
93.6
60.0-136
Ethylbenzene
0.125
0.109
87.2
74.0-126
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.125
0.0774
61.9
57.0-150
Isopropylbenzene
0.125
0.100
80.0
72.0-127
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.125
0.108
86.4
72.0-133
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.625
0.827
132
30.0-160
Methylene Chloride
0.125
0.107
85.6
68.0-123
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.625
0.787
126
56.0-143
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.125
0.0931
74.5
66.0-132
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
16 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
16 of 26
745 of 1252

--- page 746 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633129-1  03/20/21 20:00
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Naphthalene
0.125
0.0827
66.2
59.0-130
n-Propylbenzene
0.125
0.123
98.4
74.0-126
Styrene
0.125
0.105
84.0
72.0-127
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.103
82.4
74.0-129
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.145
116
68.0-128
Tetrachloroethene
0.125
0.111
88.8
70.0-136
Toluene
0.125
0.115
92.0
75.0-121
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.125
0.102
81.6
61.0-139
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0724
57.9
59.0-139
J4
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0779
62.3
62.0-137
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.0908
72.6
69.0-126
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.115
92.0
78.0-123
Trichloroethene
0.125
0.100
80.0
76.0-126
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.125
0.0946
75.7
61.0-142
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.125
0.146
117
67.0-129
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.109
87.2
74.0-124
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.110
88.0
70.0-126
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.114
91.2
73.0-127
Vinyl chloride
0.125
0.0970
77.6
63.0-134
Xylenes, Total
0.375
0.325
86.7
72.0-127
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
108
75.0-131
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
89.0
67.0-138
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
103
70.0-130
 
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/21/21 00:25 • (MS) R3633129-3  03/21/21 05:09 • (MSD) R3633129-4  03/21/21 05:28
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.927
U
1.05
0.433
113
46.7
1
10.0-160
J3
83.1
40
Acrylonitrile
0.927
U
0.869
0.892
93.8
96.3
1
10.0-160
2.69
40
Benzene
0.185
U
0.185
0.179
100
96.8
1
10.0-149
3.25
37
Bromobenzene
0.185
U
0.219
0.224
118
121
1
10.0-156
2.01
38
Bromodichloromethane
0.185
U
0.187
0.184
101
99.2
1
10.0-143
1.60
37
Bromoform
0.185
U
0.206
0.200
111
108
1
10.0-146
2.92
36
Bromomethane
0.185
U
0.150
0.140
80.8
75.6
1
10.0-149
6.65
38
n-Butylbenzene
0.185
U
0.203
0.197
110
106
1
10.0-160
2.96
40
sec-Butylbenzene
0.185
U
0.233
0.234
126
126
1
10.0-159
0.635
39
tert-Butylbenzene
0.185
U
0.219
0.221
118
119
1
10.0-156
0.673
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
17 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
17 of 26
746 of 1252

--- page 747 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/21/21 00:25 • (MS) R3633129-3  03/21/21 05:09 • (MSD) R3633129-4  03/21/21 05:28
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Carbon tetrachloride
0.185
U
0.196
0.182
106
98.4
1
10.0-145
7.06
37
Chlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.212
0.200
114
108
1
10.0-152
5.76
39
Chlorodibromomethane
0.185
U
0.205
0.197
110
106
1
10.0-146
3.69
37
Chloroethane
0.185
U
0.0944
0.0930
51.0
50.2
1
10.0-146
1.58
40
Chloroform
0.185
U
0.182
0.178
98.4
96.0
1
10.0-146
2.47
37
Chloromethane
0.185
U
0.216
0.208
117
112
1
10.0-159
4.20
37
2-Chlorotoluene
0.185
U
0.224
0.224
121
121
1
10.0-159
0.000
38
4-Chlorotoluene
0.185
U
0.227
0.233
122
126
1
10.0-155
2.58
39
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.185
U
0.178
0.179
96.0
96.8
1
10.0-151
0.830
39
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.185
U
0.205
0.202
110
109
1
10.0-148
1.46
34
Dibromomethane
0.185
U
0.169
0.154
91.2
83.2
1
10.0-147
9.17
35
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.197
0.202
106
109
1
10.0-155
2.23
37
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.211
0.208
114
112
1
10.0-153
1.42
38
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.205
0.206
110
111
1
10.0-151
0.722
38
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.185
U
0.208
0.197
112
106
1
10.0-160
5.13
35
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.185
U
0.194
0.190
105
102
1
10.0-147
2.32
37
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.185
U
0.156
0.168
84.0
90.4
1
10.0-148
7.34
35
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.185
U
0.221
0.212
119
114
1
10.0-155
4.11
37
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.185
U
0.182
0.170
98.4
92.0
1
10.0-149
6.72
37
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.185
U
0.191
0.187
103
101
1
10.0-150
2.35
37
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.185
U
0.202
0.194
109
105
1
10.0-148
3.75
37
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.185
U
0.205
0.193
110
104
1
10.0-153
5.97
35
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.185
U
0.215
0.208
116
112
1
10.0-154
3.51
35
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.185
U
0.185
0.181
100
97.6
1
10.0-151
2.43
37
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.185
U
0.224
0.215
121
116
1
10.0-148
4.05
37
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.185
U
0.170
0.163
92.0
88.0
1
10.0-138
4.44
36
Di-isopropyl ether
0.185
U
0.196
0.194
106
105
1
10.0-147
0.760
36
Ethylbenzene
0.185
U
0.208
0.206
112
111
1
10.0-160
0.717
38
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.185
U
0.173
0.175
93.6
94.4
1
10.0-160
0.851
40
Isopropylbenzene
0.185
U
0.194
0.187
105
101
1
10.0-155
3.89
38
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.185
U
0.219
0.215
118
116
1
10.0-160
2.05
40
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.927
0.142
1.05
1.09
97.9
102
1
10.0-160
3.47
40
Methylene Chloride
0.185
U
0.0643
0.197
34.7
106
1
10.0-141
J3
102
37
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.927
U
1.15
1.14
125
123
1
10.0-160
1.29
35
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.185
U
0.153
0.151
82.4
81.6
1
11.0-147
0.976
35
Naphthalene
0.185
U
0.162
0.142
87.2
76.4
1
10.0-160
13.2
36
n-Propylbenzene
0.185
U
0.242
0.240
130
130
1
10.0-158
0.615
38
Styrene
0.185
U
0.188
0.184
102
99.2
1
10.0-160
2.39
40
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.185
U
0.184
0.176
99.2
95.2
1
10.0-149
4.12
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
18 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
18 of 26
747 of 1252

--- page 748 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638031
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328417-01,02,03
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/21/21 00:25 • (MS) R3633129-3  03/21/21 05:09 • (MSD) R3633129-4  03/21/21 05:28
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.185
U
0.234
0.240
126
130
1
10.0-160
2.50
35
Tetrachloroethene
0.185
0.00423
0.222
0.219
118
116
1
10.0-156
1.34
39
Toluene
0.185
U
0.219
0.211
118
114
1
10.0-156
4.14
38
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.185
U
0.225
0.212
122
114
1
10.0-160
6.10
36
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.129
0.136
69.4
73.3
1
10.0-160
5.50
40
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.185
U
0.145
0.145
78.5
78.2
1
10.0-160
0.306
40
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.185
U
0.181
0.163
97.6
88.0
1
10.0-144
10.3
35
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.185
U
0.202
0.202
109
109
1
10.0-160
0.000
35
Trichloroethene
0.185
U
0.193
0.179
104
96.8
1
10.0-156
7.17
38
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.185
U
0.126
0.119
68.1
64.5
1
10.0-160
5.43
40
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.185
U
0.246
0.251
133
135
1
10.0-156
1.79
35
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.185
U
0.208
0.197
112
106
1
10.0-160
5.13
36
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.185
0.00385
0.221
0.205
117
108
1
10.0-160
7.67
36
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.185
U
0.221
0.221
119
119
1
10.0-160
0.000
38
Vinyl chloride
0.185
U
0.205
0.197
110
106
1
10.0-160
3.69
37
Xylenes, Total
0.556
0.00261
0.577
0.590
103
106
1
10.0-160
2.29
38
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
 
111
111
 
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
 
90.7
90.6
 
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
 
92.1
94.7
 
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
19 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
19 of 26
748 of 1252

--- page 749 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639129
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
L1328417-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634065-1  03/24/21 01:51
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
0.733
4.00
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
    (S) o-Terphenyl
84.4
 
 
18.0-148
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634065-2  03/24/21 02:05
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
25.0
18.2
72.8
50.0-150
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
25.0
20.8
83.2
50.0-150
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
63.8
18.0-148
 
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/24/21 04:17 • (MS) R3634065-3  03/24/21 04:31 • (MSD) R3634065-4  03/24/21 04:46
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
30.4
U
24.8
27.7
81.6
91.0
1
50.0-150
10.9
20
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
30.4
0.933
29.3
32.3
93.3
103
1
50.0-150
9.68
20
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
 
 
62.6
64.3
 
18.0-148
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
20 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
20 of 26
749 of 1252

--- page 750 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
(dry)
Results are reported based on the dry weight of the sample. [this will only be present on a dry report basis for soils].
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
MDL (dry)
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
RDL (dry)
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
(S)
Surrogate (Surrogate Standard) - Analytes added to every blank, sample, Laboratory Control Sample/Duplicate and 
Matrix Spike/Duplicate; used to evaluate analytical efficiency by measuring recovery. Surrogates are not expected to be 
detected in all environmental media.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
B
The same analyte is found in the associated blank.
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J3
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J4
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for accuracy.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
21 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
21 of 26
750 of 1252

--- page 751 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 11:11
22 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1328417
03/24/21 12:37
22 of 26
751 of 1252

--- page 752 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 26, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1328977
Samples Received:
03/19/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001
Description:
Lane Partners, 222 E. 4th Ave
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 26, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
1 of 36
March 26, 2021
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
1 of 36
752 of 1252

--- page 753 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
7
      SB-02-COMP    L1328977-01 
7
      SB-07-COMP    L1328977-02 
10
      SB-11-COMP    L1328977-03 
13
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
16
      Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011 
16
      Mercury by Method 7471A 
17
      Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B 
18
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015 
21
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B 
23
      Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015 
29
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
30
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
31
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
32
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
2 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
2 of 36
753 of 1252

--- page 754 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-02-COMP  L1328977-01  Solid
E. M
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1638768
1
03/23/21 11:31
03/23/21 11:48
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640277
1
03/25/21 09:18
03/25/21 11:25
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 14:52
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 22:23
CCE
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1640557
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/26/21 02:52
DWR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638620
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/22/21 19:54
DWR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 07:17
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-07-COMP  L1328977-02  Solid
E. M
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1638768
1
03/23/21 11:31
03/23/21 11:48
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640277
1
03/25/21 09:18
03/25/21 11:27
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:05
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1640557
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/26/21 03:14
DWR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638620
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/22/21 20:13
DWR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 07:31
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-11-COMP  L1328977-03  Solid
E. M
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1638768
1
03/23/21 11:31
03/23/21 11:48
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640277
1
03/25/21 09:18
03/25/21 11:30
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:08
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1638793
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/23/21 08:35
TPR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1638620
1
03/22/21 11:44
03/22/21 20:32
DWR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639129
1
03/23/21 16:13
03/24/21 07:46
JN
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
3 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
3 of 36
754 of 1252

--- page 755 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
4 of 36
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
4 of 36
755 of 1252

--- page 756 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Mercury
0.0385
J
0.0205
0.0455
1
03/25/2021 11:25
WG1640277
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Mercury
0.0398
J
0.0218
0.0483
1
03/25/2021 11:27
WG1640277
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Mercury
0.0355
J
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/25/2021 11:30
WG1640277
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Arsenic
2.28
0.589
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Barium
108
0.0968
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Beryllium
0.391
0.0358
0.227
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Cadmium
0.478
J
0.0535
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Chromium
93.5
J6
0.151
1.14
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Cobalt
21.3
0.0922
1.14
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Copper
35.1
0.455
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Lead
5.77
0.236
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Nickel
125
J6
0.150
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Selenium
1.65
J
0.868
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Vanadium
72.7
J6
0.575
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Zinc
51.6
0.946
5.68
1
03/25/2021 22:23
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Arsenic
1.83
J
0.626
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Barium
105
0.103
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Beryllium
0.319
0.0381
0.242
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Cadmium
0.435
J
0.0569
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Chromium
87.3
0.161
1.21
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Cobalt
19.1
0.0980
1.21
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Copper
32.6
0.483
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Lead
4.49
0.251
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Nickel
104
0.160
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Selenium
1.90
J
0.923
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Vanadium
62.3
0.611
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Zinc
48.6
1.01
6.04
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Barium
115
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Beryllium
0.355
0.0390
0.248
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Cadmium
0.391
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Chromium
71.2
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Cobalt
17.0
0.100
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Copper
23.2
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Lead
5.17
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Molybdenum
0.139
J
0.135
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Nickel
98.5
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Selenium
1.07
J
0.947
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Vanadium
43.0
0.627
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Zinc
41.1
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.109
B J
0.0809
0.127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
Toluene
0.00172
J
0.00166
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.0988
B J
0.0900
0.142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
Toluene
0.00252
J
0.00184
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
5 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
5 of 36
756 of 1252

--- page 757 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.110
B J
0.0939
0.148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
Toluene
0.00217
J
0.00192
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-02-COMP
L1328977-01
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.98
J
0.833
4.55
1
03/24/2021 07:17
WG1639129
SB-07-COMP
L1328977-02
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.50
J
0.886
4.83
1
03/24/2021 07:31
WG1639129
SB-11-COMP
L1328977-03
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
2.29
J
0.908
4.96
1
03/24/2021 07:46
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
6 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
6 of 36
757 of 1252

--- page 758 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1328977
SB-02-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
88.0
1
03/23/2021 11:48
WG1638768
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0385
J
0.0205
0.0455
1
03/25/2021 11:25
WG1640277
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.618
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Arsenic
2.28
0.589
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Barium
108
0.0968
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.391
0.0358
0.227
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.478
J
0.0535
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Chromium
93.5
J6
0.151
1.14
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Cobalt
21.3
0.0922
1.14
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Copper
35.1
0.455
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Lead
5.77
0.236
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.124
0.568
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Nickel
125
J6
0.150
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Selenium
1.65
J
0.868
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.144
1.14
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.448
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Vanadium
72.7
J6
0.575
2.27
1
03/25/2021 14:52
WG1640232
Zinc
51.6
0.946
5.68
1
03/25/2021 22:23
WG1640232
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0377
0.114
1
03/26/2021 02:52
WG1640557
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
92.3
77.0-120
03/26/2021 02:52
WG1640557
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J3
0.0465
0.0637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00460
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Benzene
U
0.000595
0.00127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Bromobenzene
U
0.00115
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000923
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Bromoform
U
0.00149
0.0318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Bromomethane
U
0.00251
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00669
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00367
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00248
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00114
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000267
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000779
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Chloroethane
U
0.00217
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Chloroform
U
0.00131
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Chloromethane
U
0.00554
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00110
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000573
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
7 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
7 of 36
758 of 1252

--- page 759 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1328977
SB-02-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00497
0.0318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000825
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Dibromomethane
U
0.000955
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000541
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000764
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000892
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00205
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000625
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000827
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000772
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000935
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00132
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00181
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00103
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000638
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000964
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00145
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00176
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000522
0.00127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000939
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00764
0.0318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000541
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00325
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.109
B J
0.0809
0.127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00846
0.0318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00290
0.0318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000446
0.00127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Naphthalene
U
0.00622
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00121
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Styrene
U
0.000292
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00121
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000885
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000960
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.00114
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Toluene
0.00172
J
0.00166
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00934
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00560
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00118
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000760
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Trichloroethene
U
0.000744
0.00127
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00105
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00206
0.0159
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00201
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00201
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00255
0.00637
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00148
0.00318
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00112
0.00828
1
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
75.0-131
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
100
67.0-138
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
93.9
70.0-130
03/22/2021 19:54
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
8 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
8 of 36
759 of 1252

--- page 760 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1328977
SB-02-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.98
J
0.833
4.55
1
03/24/2021 07:17
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.51
4.55
1
03/24/2021 07:17
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.51
4.55
1
03/24/2021 07:17
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
91.4
18.0-148
03/24/2021 07:17
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
9 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
9 of 36
760 of 1252

--- page 761 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1328977
SB-07-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
82.7
1
03/23/2021 11:48
WG1638768
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0398
J
0.0218
0.0483
1
03/25/2021 11:27
WG1640277
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.657
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Arsenic
1.83
J
0.626
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Barium
105
0.103
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.319
0.0381
0.242
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.435
J
0.0569
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Chromium
87.3
0.161
1.21
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Cobalt
19.1
0.0980
1.21
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Copper
32.6
0.483
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Lead
4.49
0.251
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.132
0.604
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Nickel
104
0.160
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Selenium
1.90
J
0.923
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.153
1.21
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.476
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Vanadium
62.3
0.611
2.42
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Zinc
48.6
1.01
6.04
1
03/25/2021 15:05
WG1640232
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0401
0.121
1
03/26/2021 03:14
WG1640557
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
92.6
77.0-120
03/26/2021 03:14
WG1640557
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J3
0.0517
0.0708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00512
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Benzene
U
0.000662
0.00142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Bromobenzene
U
0.00128
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00103
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Bromoform
U
0.00166
0.0354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Bromomethane
U
0.00279
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00744
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00408
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00276
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00127
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000298
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000867
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Chloroethane
U
0.00241
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Chloroform
U
0.00146
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Chloromethane
U
0.00616
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00123
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000638
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
10 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
10 of 36
761 of 1252

--- page 762 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1328977
SB-07-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00553
0.0354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000918
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Dibromomethane
U
0.00106
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000602
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000850
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000992
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00228
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000696
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000920
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000859
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00104
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00147
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00201
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00115
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000710
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00107
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00162
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00196
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000581
0.00142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00104
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00850
0.0354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000602
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00361
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.0988
B J
0.0900
0.142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00941
0.0354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00323
0.0354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000496
0.00142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Naphthalene
U
0.00691
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00135
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Styrene
U
0.000324
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00134
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000985
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00107
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.00127
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Toluene
0.00252
J
0.00184
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0104
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00623
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00131
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000846
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Trichloroethene
U
0.000828
0.00142
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00117
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00230
0.0177
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00224
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00224
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00283
0.00708
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00164
0.00354
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00125
0.00921
1
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
75.0-131
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
98.8
67.0-138
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
98.4
70.0-130
03/22/2021 20:13
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
11 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
11 of 36
762 of 1252

--- page 763 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1328977
SB-07-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.50
J
0.886
4.83
1
03/24/2021 07:31
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.61
4.83
1
03/24/2021 07:31
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.61
4.83
1
03/24/2021 07:31
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
91.4
18.0-148
03/24/2021 07:31
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
12 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
12 of 36
763 of 1252

--- page 764 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1328977
SB-11-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
80.7
1
03/23/2021 11:48
WG1638768
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0355
J
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/25/2021 11:30
WG1640277
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.674
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Arsenic
U
0.642
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Barium
115
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.355
0.0390
0.248
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.391
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Chromium
71.2
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Cobalt
17.0
0.100
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Copper
23.2
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Lead
5.17
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Molybdenum
0.139
J
0.135
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Nickel
98.5
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Selenium
1.07
J
0.947
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.157
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.488
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Vanadium
43.0
0.627
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Zinc
41.1
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 15:08
WG1640232
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0411
0.124
1
03/23/2021 08:35
WG1638793
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
93.0
77.0-120
03/23/2021 08:35
WG1638793
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J3
0.0540
0.0739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00534
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Benzene
U
0.000690
0.00148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Bromobenzene
U
0.00133
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00107
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Bromoform
U
0.00173
0.0370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Bromomethane
U
0.00291
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00776
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00426
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00133
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000310
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000905
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Chloroethane
U
0.00251
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Chloroform
U
0.00152
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Chloromethane
U
0.00643
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00128
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000665
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
13 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
13 of 36
764 of 1252

--- page 765 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1328977
SB-11-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00577
0.0370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000958
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Dibromomethane
U
0.00111
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000628
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000887
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00103
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00238
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000726
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000960
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000896
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00109
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00154
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00210
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00120
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000741
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00112
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00169
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00204
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000606
0.00148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00109
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00887
0.0370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000628
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00377
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.110
B J
0.0939
0.148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00982
0.0370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00337
0.0370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000517
0.00148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Naphthalene
U
0.00721
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00140
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Styrene
U
0.000339
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00140
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00103
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00111
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.00132
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Toluene
0.00217
J
0.00192
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0108
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00651
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00136
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000883
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Trichloroethene
U
0.000863
0.00148
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00122
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00240
0.0185
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00234
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00234
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00296
0.00739
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00171
0.00370
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
Xylenes, Total
U
0.00130
0.00961
1
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
75.0-131
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
99.7
67.0-138
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
95.6
70.0-130
03/22/2021 20:32
WG1638620
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
14 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
14 of 36
765 of 1252

--- page 766 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1328977
SB-11-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
2.29
J
0.908
4.96
1
03/24/2021 07:46
WG1639129
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/24/2021 07:46
WG1639129
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.65
4.96
1
03/24/2021 07:46
WG1639129
    (S) o-Terphenyl
81.4
18.0-148
03/24/2021 07:46
WG1639129
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
15 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
15 of 36
766 of 1252

--- page 767 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638768
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634183-1  03/23/21 11:48
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.00100
L1328976-07 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1328976-07  03/23/21 11:48 • (DUP) R3634183-3  03/23/21 11:48
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
91.4
89.4
1
2.21
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634183-2  03/23/21 11:48
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
16 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
16 of 36
767 of 1252

--- page 768 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640277
Mercury by Method 7471A
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634720-1  03/25/21 11:07
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Mercury
U
0.0180
0.0400
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634720-2  03/25/21 11:15
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Mercury
0.500
0.490
98.1
80.0-120
L1330312-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1330312-01  03/25/21 11:17 • (MS) R3634720-3  03/25/21 11:20 • (MSD) R3634720-4  03/25/21 11:22
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Mercury
0.500
U
0.452
0.468
90.5
93.6
1
75.0-125
3.39
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
17 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
17 of 36
768 of 1252

--- page 769 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634945-1  03/25/21 14:46
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Antimony
U
0.544
2.00
Arsenic
U
0.518
2.00
Barium
U
0.0852
0.500
Beryllium
U
0.0315
0.200
Cadmium
U
0.0471
0.500
Chromium
U
0.133
1.00
Cobalt
U
0.0811
1.00
Copper
U
0.400
2.00
Lead
U
0.208
0.500
Molybdenum
U
0.109
0.500
Nickel
U
0.132
2.00
Selenium
U
0.764
2.00
Silver
U
0.127
1.00
Thallium
U
0.394
2.00
Vanadium
U
0.506
2.00
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635005-1  03/25/21 22:18
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Zinc
U
0.832
5.00
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634945-2  03/25/21 14:49
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Antimony
100
97.6
97.6
80.0-120
Arsenic
100
96.8
96.8
80.0-120
Barium
100
103
103
80.0-120
Beryllium
100
97.5
97.5
80.0-120
Cadmium
100
97.7
97.7
80.0-120
Chromium
100
98.2
98.2
80.0-120
Cobalt
100
101
101
80.0-120
Copper
100
97.4
97.4
80.0-120
Lead
100
97.4
97.4
80.0-120
Molybdenum
100
103
103
80.0-120
Nickel
100
100
100
80.0-120
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
18 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
18 of 36
769 of 1252

--- page 770 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1328977-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634945-2  03/25/21 14:49
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Selenium
100
99.9
99.9
80.0-120
Silver
20.0
18.9
94.5
80.0-120
Thallium
100
98.2
98.2
80.0-120
Vanadium
100
101
101
80.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635005-2  03/25/21 22:20
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Zinc
100
97.3
97.3
80.0-120
L1328977-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328977-01  03/25/21 14:52 • (MS) R3634945-5  03/25/21 15:00 • (MSD) R3634945-6  03/25/21 15:02
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Antimony
114
U
89.6
94.3
78.8
83.0
1
75.0-125
5.20
20
Arsenic
114
2.28
96.5
103
82.9
88.3
1
75.0-125
6.13
20
Barium
114
108
199
199
80.2
80.2
1
75.0-125
0.0118
20
Beryllium
114
0.391
99.7
104
87.4
91.6
1
75.0-125
4.68
20
Cadmium
114
0.478
102
107
89.5
93.3
1
75.0-125
4.17
20
Chromium
114
93.5
178
182
74.0
77.9
1
75.0-125
J6
2.45
20
Cobalt
114
21.3
130
137
96.1
102
1
75.0-125
5.10
20
Copper
114
35.1
128
135
82.1
87.9
1
75.0-125
5.00
20
Lead
114
5.77
113
118
93.9
98.6
1
75.0-125
4.64
20
Molybdenum
114
U
100
105
88.1
92.4
1
75.0-125
4.73
20
Nickel
114
125
204
226
69.2
88.5
1
75.0-125
J6
10.2
20
Selenium
114
1.65
96.2
103
83.2
89.3
1
75.0-125
6.92
20
Silver
22.7
U
20.0
20.8
88.0
91.4
1
75.0-125
3.79
20
Thallium
114
U
104
108
91.1
94.8
1
75.0-125
3.91
20
Vanadium
114
72.7
150
161
67.6
77.4
1
75.0-125
J6
7.21
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
19 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
19 of 36
770 of 1252

--- page 771 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1328977-01,02,03
L1328977-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328977-01  03/25/21 22:23 • (MS) R3635005-5  03/25/21 22:31 • (MSD) R3635005-6  03/25/21 22:34
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Zinc
114
51.6
142
146
79.4
83.1
1
75.0-125
2.90
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
20 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
20 of 36
771 of 1252

--- page 772 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638793
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1328977-03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634769-2  03/23/21 05:56
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0332
0.100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
97.0
 
 
77.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634769-1  03/23/21 04:58
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5.50
5.18
94.2
72.0-125
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
102
77.0-120
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
21 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
21 of 36
772 of 1252

--- page 773 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640557
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1328977-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635058-2  03/25/21 21:39
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0332
0.100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
97.5
 
 
77.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635058-1  03/25/21 20:56
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5.50
5.45
99.1
72.0-125
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
106
77.0-120
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
22 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
22 of 36
773 of 1252

--- page 774 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634778-3  03/22/21 15:39
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Acetone
U
0.0365
0.0500
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00361
0.0125
Benzene
U
0.000467
0.00100
Bromobenzene
U
0.000900
0.0125
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000725
0.00250
Bromoform
U
0.00117
0.0250
Bromomethane
U
0.00197
0.0125
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00525
0.0125
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.0125
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00195
0.00500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.000898
0.00500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000210
0.00250
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000612
0.00250
Chloroethane
U
0.00170
0.00500
Chloroform
U
0.00103
0.00250
Chloromethane
U
0.00435
0.0125
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000865
0.00250
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000450
0.00500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00390
0.0250
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000648
0.00250
Dibromomethane
U
0.000750
0.00500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000425
0.00500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000600
0.00500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000700
0.00500
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00161
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000491
0.00250
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000649
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000606
0.00250
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000734
0.00250
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00104
0.00500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00142
0.00500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.000809
0.00250
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000501
0.00500
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000757
0.00250
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00114
0.00500
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00138
0.00250
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000410
0.00100
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000737
0.00250
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00600
0.0250
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000425
0.00250
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
23 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
23 of 36
774 of 1252

--- page 775 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634778-3  03/22/21 15:39
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00255
0.00500
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.111
0.0635
0.100
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00664
0.0250
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00228
0.0250
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000350
0.00100
Naphthalene
U
0.00488
0.0125
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.000950
0.00500
Styrene
U
0.000229
0.0125
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000948
0.00250
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000695
0.00250
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.000896
0.00250
Toluene
U
0.00130
0.00500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000754
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00733
0.0125
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00440
0.0125
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.000923
0.00250
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000597
0.00250
Trichloroethene
U
0.000584
0.00100
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.000827
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00162
0.0125
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00200
0.00500
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00116
0.00250
Xylenes, Total
U
0.000880
0.00650
    (S) Toluene-d8
99.1
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
102
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
104
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634778-1  03/22/21 13:57 • (LCSD) R3634778-2  03/22/21 14:31
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.625
0.495
0.796
79.2
127
10.0-160
J3
46.6
31
Acrylonitrile
0.625
0.691
0.815
111
130
45.0-153
16.5
22
Benzene
0.125
0.138
0.137
110
110
70.0-123
0.727
20
Bromobenzene
0.125
0.135
0.129
108
103
73.0-121
4.55
20
Bromodichloromethane
0.125
0.132
0.136
106
109
73.0-121
2.99
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
24 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
24 of 36
775 of 1252

--- page 776 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634778-1  03/22/21 13:57 • (LCSD) R3634778-2  03/22/21 14:31
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Bromoform
0.125
0.133
0.134
106
107
64.0-132
0.749
20
Bromomethane
0.125
0.102
0.102
81.6
81.6
56.0-147
0.000
20
n-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.116
0.112
92.8
89.6
68.0-135
3.51
20
sec-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.128
0.122
102
97.6
74.0-130
4.80
20
tert-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.134
0.126
107
101
75.0-127
6.15
20
Carbon tetrachloride
0.125
0.141
0.145
113
116
66.0-128
2.80
20
Chlorobenzene
0.125
0.124
0.122
99.2
97.6
76.0-128
1.63
20
Chlorodibromomethane
0.125
0.128
0.130
102
104
74.0-127
1.55
20
Chloroethane
0.125
0.102
0.0973
81.6
77.8
61.0-134
4.72
20
Chloroform
0.125
0.129
0.134
103
107
72.0-123
3.80
20
Chloromethane
0.125
0.125
0.107
100
85.6
51.0-138
15.5
20
2-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.121
0.114
96.8
91.2
75.0-124
5.96
20
4-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.130
0.126
104
101
75.0-124
3.12
20
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.125
0.104
0.112
83.2
89.6
59.0-130
7.41
20
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.125
0.134
0.129
107
103
74.0-128
3.80
20
Dibromomethane
0.125
0.132
0.134
106
107
75.0-122
1.50
20
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.115
0.116
92.0
92.8
76.0-124
0.866
20
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.126
0.123
101
98.4
76.0-125
2.41
20
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.123
0.121
98.4
96.8
77.0-121
1.64
20
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.125
0.134
0.151
107
121
43.0-156
11.9
20
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.135
0.141
108
113
70.0-127
4.35
20
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.147
0.150
118
120
65.0-131
2.02
20
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.148
0.149
118
119
65.0-131
0.673
20
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.128
0.129
102
103
73.0-125
0.778
20
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.128
0.128
102
102
71.0-125
0.000
20
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.145
0.143
116
114
74.0-125
1.39
20
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.132
0.138
106
110
73.0-125
4.44
20
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.120
0.117
96.0
93.6
80.0-125
2.53
20
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.136
0.131
109
105
76.0-127
3.75
20
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.123
0.119
98.4
95.2
73.0-127
3.31
20
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.134
0.136
107
109
59.0-135
1.48
20
Di-isopropyl ether
0.125
0.149
0.151
119
121
60.0-136
1.33
20
Ethylbenzene
0.125
0.121
0.125
96.8
100
74.0-126
3.25
20
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.125
0.103
0.100
82.4
80.0
57.0-150
2.96
20
Isopropylbenzene
0.125
0.127
0.130
102
104
72.0-127
2.33
20
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.125
0.128
0.123
102
98.4
72.0-133
3.98
20
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.625
0.695
0.768
111
123
30.0-160
9.98
24
Methylene Chloride
0.125
0.127
0.136
102
109
68.0-123
6.84
20
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.625
0.684
0.695
109
111
56.0-143
1.60
20
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.125
0.120
0.129
96.0
103
66.0-132
7.23
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
25 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
25 of 36
776 of 1252

--- page 777 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634778-1  03/22/21 13:57 • (LCSD) R3634778-2  03/22/21 14:31
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Naphthalene
0.125
0.0968
0.0966
77.4
77.3
59.0-130
0.207
20
n-Propylbenzene
0.125
0.128
0.123
102
98.4
74.0-126
3.98
20
Styrene
0.125
0.131
0.130
105
104
72.0-127
0.766
20
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.123
0.125
98.4
100
74.0-129
1.61
20
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.116
0.113
92.8
90.4
68.0-128
2.62
20
Tetrachloroethene
0.125
0.136
0.133
109
106
70.0-136
2.23
20
Toluene
0.125
0.121
0.119
96.8
95.2
75.0-121
1.67
20
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.125
0.148
0.145
118
116
61.0-139
2.05
20
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0986
0.0959
78.9
76.7
59.0-139
2.78
20
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.101
0.101
80.8
80.8
62.0-137
0.000
20
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.134
0.139
107
111
69.0-126
3.66
20
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.115
0.113
92.0
90.4
78.0-123
1.75
20
Trichloroethene
0.125
0.133
0.131
106
105
76.0-126
1.52
20
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.125
0.121
0.122
96.8
97.6
61.0-142
0.823
20
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.125
0.124
0.122
99.2
97.6
67.0-129
1.63
20
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.121
0.116
96.8
92.8
74.0-124
4.22
20
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.128
0.125
102
100
70.0-126
2.37
20
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.133
0.125
106
100
73.0-127
6.20
20
Vinyl chloride
0.125
0.101
0.0990
80.8
79.2
63.0-134
2.00
20
Xylenes, Total
0.375
0.379
0.381
101
102
72.0-127
0.526
20
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
98.5
98.4
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
106
107
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
108
110
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
L1328962-20 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328962-20  03/22/21 17:03 • (MS) R3634778-4  03/22/21 22:45 • (MSD) R3634778-5  03/22/21 23:04
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
1.13
U
0.520
0.219
46.2
19.4
1.44
10.0-160
J3
81.6
40
Acrylonitrile
1.13
U
1.13
1.15
101
102
1.44
10.0-160
1.86
40
Benzene
0.225
0.00117
0.303
0.311
134
138
1.44
10.0-149
2.85
37
Bromobenzene
0.225
U
0.300
0.308
133
137
1.44
10.0-156
2.47
38
Bromodichloromethane
0.225
U
0.276
0.284
123
126
1.44
10.0-143
2.68
37
Bromoform
0.225
U
0.261
0.258
116
114
1.44
10.0-146
1.45
36
Bromomethane
0.225
U
0.170
0.184
75.6
81.7
1.44
10.0-149
7.77
38
n-Butylbenzene
0.225
U
0.270
0.269
120
119
1.44
10.0-160
0.464
40
sec-Butylbenzene
0.225
U
0.288
0.300
128
133
1.44
10.0-159
4.26
39
tert-Butylbenzene
0.225
U
0.294
0.303
131
134
1.44
10.0-156
2.94
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
26 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
26 of 36
777 of 1252

--- page 778 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
L1328962-20 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328962-20  03/22/21 17:03 • (MS) R3634778-4  03/22/21 22:45 • (MSD) R3634778-5  03/22/21 23:04
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Carbon tetrachloride
0.225
U
0.306
0.314
136
139
1.44
10.0-145
2.42
37
Chlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.278
0.276
123
123
1.44
10.0-152
0.451
39
Chlorodibromomethane
0.225
U
0.268
0.280
119
124
1.44
10.0-146
4.57
37
Chloroethane
0.225
U
0.129
0.149
57.2
66.1
1.44
10.0-146
14.4
40
Chloroform
0.225
U
0.269
0.278
119
123
1.44
10.0-146
3.20
37
Chloromethane
0.225
U
0.230
0.226
102
101
1.44
10.0-159
1.64
37
2-Chlorotoluene
0.225
U
0.270
0.276
120
123
1.44
10.0-159
2.29
38
4-Chlorotoluene
0.225
U
0.295
0.300
131
133
1.44
10.0-155
1.68
39
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.225
U
0.185
0.195
82.2
86.7
1.44
10.0-151
5.26
39
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.225
U
0.275
0.276
122
123
1.44
10.0-148
0.454
34
Dibromomethane
0.225
U
0.229
0.256
102
114
1.44
10.0-147
11.3
35
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.256
0.258
114
114
1.44
10.0-155
0.487
37
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.290
0.284
129
126
1.44
10.0-153
2.18
38
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.274
0.270
122
120
1.44
10.0-151
1.38
38
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.225
U
0.250
0.241
111
107
1.44
10.0-160
3.56
35
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.225
U
0.283
0.294
126
131
1.44
10.0-147
3.90
37
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.225
U
0.274
0.281
122
125
1.44
10.0-148
2.70
35
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.225
U
0.319
0.319
142
142
1.44
10.0-155
0.000
37
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.225
U
0.260
0.261
116
116
1.44
10.0-149
0.480
37
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.225
U
0.261
0.263
116
117
1.44
10.0-150
0.477
37
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.225
U
0.315
0.319
140
142
1.44
10.0-148
1.18
37
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.225
U
0.295
0.298
131
132
1.44
10.0-153
0.844
35
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.225
U
0.265
0.264
118
117
1.44
10.0-154
0.473
35
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.225
U
0.291
0.304
129
135
1.44
10.0-151
4.20
37
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.225
U
0.270
0.274
120
122
1.44
10.0-148
1.38
37
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.225
U
0.224
0.225
99.4
100
1.44
10.0-138
0.557
36
Di-isopropyl ether
0.225
U
0.304
0.308
135
137
1.44
10.0-147
1.23
36
Ethylbenzene
0.225
U
0.278
0.276
123
123
1.44
10.0-160
0.451
38
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.225
U
0.291
0.290
129
129
1.44
10.0-160
0.430
40
Isopropylbenzene
0.225
U
0.284
0.278
126
123
1.44
10.0-155
2.23
38
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.225
0.0215
0.305
0.311
126
129
1.44
10.0-160
2.03
40
2-Butanone (MEK)
1.13
U
1.03
1.01
91.1
90.0
1.44
10.0-160
1.23
40
Methylene Chloride
0.225
U
0.263
0.196
117
87.2
1.44
10.0-141
28.9
37
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
1.13
U
1.28
1.30
113
116
1.44
10.0-160
1.94
35
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.225
U
0.228
0.234
101
104
1.44
11.0-147
2.71
35
Naphthalene
0.225
U
0.196
0.194
87.2
86.1
1.44
10.0-160
1.28
36
n-Propylbenzene
0.225
U
0.288
0.289
128
128
1.44
10.0-158
0.434
38
Styrene
0.225
0.0659
0.349
0.360
126
131
1.44
10.0-160
3.17
40
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.225
U
0.258
0.261
114
116
1.44
10.0-149
1.45
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
27 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
27 of 36
778 of 1252

--- page 779 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638620
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1328977-01,02,03
L1328962-20 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328962-20  03/22/21 17:03 • (MS) R3634778-4  03/22/21 22:45 • (MSD) R3634778-5  03/22/21 23:04
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.225
U
0.246
0.264
109
117
1.44
10.0-160
6.86
35
Tetrachloroethene
0.225
U
0.306
0.313
136
139
1.44
10.0-156
2.02
39
Toluene
0.225
0.0346
0.304
0.308
120
121
1.44
10.0-156
1.23
38
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.225
U
0.345
0.340
153
151
1.44
10.0-160
1.46
36
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.206
0.239
91.7
106
1.44
10.0-160
14.6
40
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.225
U
0.245
0.241
109
107
1.44
10.0-160
1.54
40
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.225
U
0.306
0.306
136
136
1.44
10.0-144
0.000
35
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.225
U
0.256
0.264
114
117
1.44
10.0-160
2.88
35
Trichloroethene
0.225
U
0.284
0.301
126
134
1.44
10.0-156
5.98
38
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.225
U
0.171
0.186
76.1
82.8
1.44
10.0-160
8.39
40
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.225
U
0.258
0.260
114
116
1.44
10.0-156
0.966
35
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.225
0.00478
0.265
0.269
116
117
1.44
10.0-160
1.41
36
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.225
0.00715
0.293
0.293
127
127
1.44
10.0-160
0.000
36
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.225
0.00478
0.298
0.296
130
130
1.44
10.0-160
0.421
38
Vinyl chloride
0.225
U
0.195
0.204
86.7
90.6
1.44
10.0-160
4.39
37
Xylenes, Total
0.675
0.0155
0.704
0.838
102
122
1.44
10.0-160
17.4
38
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
 
100
101
 
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
 
104
105
 
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
 
97.2
94.6
 
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
28 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
28 of 36
779 of 1252

--- page 780 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639129
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
L1328977-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634065-1  03/24/21 01:51
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
0.733
4.00
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
    (S) o-Terphenyl
84.4
 
 
18.0-148
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634065-2  03/24/21 02:05
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
25.0
18.2
72.8
50.0-150
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
25.0
20.8
83.2
50.0-150
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
63.8
18.0-148
 
L1328417-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328417-01  03/24/21 04:17 • (MS) R3634065-3  03/24/21 04:31 • (MSD) R3634065-4  03/24/21 04:46
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
30.4
U
24.8
27.7
81.6
91.0
1
50.0-150
10.9
20
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
30.4
0.933
29.3
32.3
93.3
103
1
50.0-150
9.68
20
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
 
 
62.6
64.3
 
18.0-148
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
29 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
29 of 36
780 of 1252

--- page 781 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
(dry)
Results are reported based on the dry weight of the sample. [this will only be present on a dry report basis for soils].
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
MDL (dry)
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
RDL (dry)
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
(S)
Surrogate (Surrogate Standard) - Analytes added to every blank, sample, Laboratory Control Sample/Duplicate and 
Matrix Spike/Duplicate; used to evaluate analytical efficiency by measuring recovery. Surrogates are not expected to be 
detected in all environmental media.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
B
The same analyte is found in the associated blank.
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J3
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J6
The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
30 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
30 of 36
781 of 1252

--- page 782 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 09:57
31 of 36
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1328977
03/26/21 12:26
31 of 36
782 of 1252

--- page 783 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 29, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1329287
Samples Received:
03/20/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001
Description:
Lane Partners,222 E 4th St
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 29, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
1 of 30
March 29, 2021
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
1 of 30
783 of 1252

--- page 784 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
7
      SB-08-COMP    L1329287-01 
7
      SB-03-COMP    L1329287-02 
10
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
13
      Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011 
13
      Mercury by Method 7471A 
14
      Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B 
15
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015 
17
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B 
18
      Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015 
25
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
26
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
27
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
28
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
2 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
2 of 30
784 of 1252

--- page 785 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-08-COMP  L1329287-01  Solid
Erin Male
03/18/21 00:00
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1638845
1
03/23/21 14:53
03/23/21 15:30
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1641650
1
03/27/21 16:09
03/28/21 13:21
BMF
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640596
1
03/25/21 17:45
03/25/21 21:22
CCE
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639760
1
03/23/21 08:54
03/24/21 20:44
ACG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1640318
1
03/23/21 08:54
03/25/21 15:52
ADM
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639779
1
03/24/21 23:45
03/25/21 23:46
TJD
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-03-COMP  L1329287-02  Solid
Erin Male
03/18/21 00:00
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1638845
1
03/23/21 14:53
03/23/21 15:30
KDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1641650
1
03/27/21 16:09
03/28/21 13:33
BMF
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640596
1
03/25/21 17:45
03/25/21 21:39
CCE
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639760
1
03/23/21 08:54
03/24/21 21:06
ACG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1640318
1
03/23/21 08:54
03/25/21 15:33
ADM
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1640688
1
03/23/21 08:54
03/26/21 16:41
TPR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639779
1
03/24/21 23:45
03/25/21 22:33
TJD
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
3 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
3 of 30
785 of 1252

--- page 786 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
4 of 30
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
4 of 30
786 of 1252

--- page 787 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Mercury
0.0377
J
0.0226
0.0502
1
03/28/2021 13:21
WG1641650
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Mercury
0.0275
J
0.0215
0.0479
1
03/28/2021 13:33
WG1641650
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Barium
121
0.107
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Beryllium
0.471
0.0395
0.251
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Cadmium
0.152
J
0.0591
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Chromium
65.3
0.167
1.25
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Cobalt
19.2
0.102
1.25
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Copper
24.3
0.502
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Lead
6.78
0.261
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Nickel
131
J6
0.166
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Vanadium
43.5
0.635
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Zinc
41.6
1.04
6.27
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Arsenic
0.880
J
0.620
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Barium
92.6
0.102
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Beryllium
0.285
0.0377
0.239
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Cadmium
0.117
J
0.0564
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Chromium
46.1
0.159
1.20
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Cobalt
15.0
0.0970
1.20
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Copper
17.4
0.479
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Lead
5.10
0.249
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Nickel
61.0
0.158
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Vanadium
36.2
0.605
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Zinc
32.7
0.995
5.98
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
TPHG C5 - C12
0.0473
J
0.0416
0.125
1
03/24/2021 20:44
WG1639760
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.152
B
0.0958
0.151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00347
B J
0.00238
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
Xylenes, Total
0.00173
B J J3
0.00133
0.00980
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.164
B
0.0885
0.139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00443
B J
0.00220
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
Xylenes, Total
0.00223
B J
0.00123
0.00906
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
4.18
J
0.919
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
7.06
1.67
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
SB-08-COMP
L1329287-01
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
4.04
J
1.67
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
5 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
5 of 30
787 of 1252

--- page 788 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.17
J
0.877
4.79
1
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
SB-03-COMP
L1329287-02
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
2.06
J
1.59
4.79
1
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
6 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
6 of 30
788 of 1252

--- page 789 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1329287
SB-08-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
79.7
1
03/23/2021 15:30
WG1638845
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0377
J
0.0226
0.0502
1
03/28/2021 13:21
WG1641650
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.682
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Arsenic
U
0.650
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Barium
121
0.107
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Beryllium
0.471
0.0395
0.251
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Cadmium
0.152
J
0.0591
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Chromium
65.3
0.167
1.25
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Cobalt
19.2
0.102
1.25
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Copper
24.3
0.502
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Lead
6.78
0.261
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Molybdenum
U
0.137
0.627
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Nickel
131
J6
0.166
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Selenium
U
0.958
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Silver
U
0.159
1.25
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Thallium
U
0.494
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Vanadium
43.5
0.635
2.51
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Zinc
41.6
1.04
6.27
1
03/25/2021 21:22
WG1640596
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
0.0473
J
0.0416
0.125
1
03/24/2021 20:44
WG1639760
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
111
77.0-120
03/24/2021 20:44
WG1639760
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0551
0.0754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00544
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Benzene
U
J3
0.000704
0.00151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Bromobenzene
U
0.00136
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00109
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Bromoform
U
0.00176
0.0377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Bromomethane
U
J3
0.00297
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
n-Butylbenzene
U
J3
0.00792
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
sec-Butylbenzene
U
J3
0.00434
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
tert-Butylbenzene
U
J3
0.00294
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Carbon tetrachloride
U
J3
0.00135
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000317
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000923
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Chloroethane
U
J3
0.00256
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Chloroform
U
J3
0.00155
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Chloromethane
U
J3
0.00656
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00130
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000679
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
7 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
7 of 30
789 of 1252

--- page 790 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1329287
SB-08-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00588
0.0377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000977
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Dibromomethane
U
0.00113
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000641
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000905
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.00106
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
J3
0.00243
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
J3
0.000741
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000979
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
J3
0.000914
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
J3
0.00111
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
J3
0.00157
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
J3
0.00214
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
J3
0.00122
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000756
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00114
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00172
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
J3
0.00208
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000618
0.00151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Ethylbenzene
U
J3
0.00111
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
J3
0.00905
0.0377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Isopropylbenzene
U
J3
0.000641
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
J3
0.00385
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.152
B
0.0958
0.151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Methylene Chloride
U
0.0100
0.0377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00344
0.0377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000528
0.00151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Naphthalene
U
0.00736
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
n-Propylbenzene
U
J3
0.00143
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Styrene
U
0.000345
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00143
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00105
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
J3
0.00114
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Tetrachloroethene
U
J3
0.00135
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Toluene
U
J3
0.00196
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0111
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00664
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
J3
0.00139
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000900
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Trichloroethene
U
J3
0.000881
0.00151
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
J3
0.00125
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00244
0.0189
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00347
B J
0.00238
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00238
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
J3
0.00302
0.00754
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Vinyl chloride
U
J3
0.00175
0.00377
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
Xylenes, Total
0.00173
B J J3
0.00133
0.00980
1
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
    (S) Toluene-d8
113
75.0-131
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.8
67.0-138
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
91.6
70.0-130
03/25/2021 15:52
WG1640318
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
8 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
8 of 30
790 of 1252

--- page 791 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1329287
SB-08-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
4.18
J
0.919
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
7.06
1.67
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
4.04
J
1.67
5.02
1
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
    (S) o-Terphenyl
108
18.0-148
03/25/2021 23:46
WG1639779
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
9 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
9 of 30
791 of 1252

--- page 792 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1329287
SB-03-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
83.6
1
03/23/2021 15:30
WG1638845
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0275
J
0.0215
0.0479
1
03/28/2021 13:33
WG1641650
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.651
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Arsenic
0.880
J
0.620
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Barium
92.6
0.102
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Beryllium
0.285
0.0377
0.239
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Cadmium
0.117
J
0.0564
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Chromium
46.1
0.159
1.20
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Cobalt
15.0
0.0970
1.20
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Copper
17.4
0.479
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Lead
5.10
0.249
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Molybdenum
U
0.130
0.598
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Nickel
61.0
0.158
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Selenium
U
0.914
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Silver
U
0.152
1.20
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Thallium
U
0.471
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Vanadium
36.2
0.605
2.39
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Zinc
32.7
0.995
5.98
1
03/25/2021 21:39
WG1640596
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0397
0.120
1
03/24/2021 21:06
WG1639760
    (S) a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
112
77.0-120
03/24/2021 21:06
WG1639760
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Acetone
U
J4
0.0509
0.0697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00503
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Benzene
U
0.000651
0.00139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Bromobenzene
U
0.00125
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.00101
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Bromoform
U
0.00163
0.0348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Bromomethane
U
0.00275
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00732
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00401
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00272
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.00125
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000293
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000853
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Chloroethane
U
0.00237
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Chloroform
U
0.00144
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Chloromethane
U
0.00606
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.00121
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000627
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
10 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
10 of 30
792 of 1252

--- page 793 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1329287
SB-03-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00544
0.0348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000903
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Dibromomethane
U
0.00105
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000592
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000836
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000976
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00224
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000684
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000904
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000845
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00102
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00145
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00198
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.00113
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000698
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00106
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00159
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00192
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000571
0.00139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Ethylbenzene
U
0.00103
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00836
0.0348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000592
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00355
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.164
B
0.0885
0.139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00925
0.0348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00318
0.0348
1
03/26/2021 16:41
WG1640688
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000488
0.00139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Naphthalene
U
0.00680
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.00132
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Styrene
U
0.000319
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.00132
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000969
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.00105
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.00125
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Toluene
U
0.00181
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.0102
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00613
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.00129
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000832
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Trichloroethene
U
0.000814
0.00139
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.00115
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00226
0.0174
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00443
B J
0.00220
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00220
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00279
0.00697
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00162
0.00348
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
Xylenes, Total
0.00223
B J
0.00123
0.00906
1
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
    (S) Toluene-d8
108
75.0-131
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
    (S) Toluene-d8
106
75.0-131
03/26/2021 16:41
WG1640688
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
88.4
67.0-138
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
101
67.0-138
03/26/2021 16:41
WG1640688
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
89.6
70.0-130
03/25/2021 15:33
WG1640318
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
95.1
70.0-130
03/26/2021 16:41
WG1640688
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
11 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
11 of 30
793 of 1252

--- page 794 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1329287
SB-03-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
1.17
J
0.877
4.79
1
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
2.06
J
1.59
4.79
1
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.59
4.79
1
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
    (S) o-Terphenyl
105
18.0-148
03/25/2021 22:33
WG1639779
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
12 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
12 of 30
794 of 1252

--- page 795 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1638845
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634209-1  03/23/21 15:30
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.00200
L1329283-05 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1329283-05  03/23/21 15:30 • (DUP) R3634209-3  03/23/21 15:30
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
82.1
81.4
1
0.810
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634209-2  03/23/21 15:30
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
13 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
13 of 30
795 of 1252

--- page 796 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1641650
Mercury by Method 7471A
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635602-1  03/28/21 13:17
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Mercury
U
0.0180
0.0400
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635602-2  03/28/21 13:19
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Mercury
0.500
0.469
93.9
80.0-120
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/28/21 13:21 • (MS) R3635602-3  03/28/21 13:23 • (MSD) R3635602-4  03/28/21 13:25
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Mercury
0.627
0.0377
0.713
0.702
108
106
1
75.0-125
1.54
20
L1330967-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1330967-01  03/28/21 13:27 • (MS) R3635602-5  03/28/21 13:29 • (MSD) R3635602-6  03/28/21 13:31
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Mercury
0.617
U
0.532
0.565
86.3
91.6
1
75.0-125
5.94
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
14 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
14 of 30
796 of 1252

--- page 797 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635017-1  03/25/21 21:17
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Antimony
U
0.544
2.00
Arsenic
U
0.518
2.00
Barium
U
0.0852
0.500
Beryllium
U
0.0315
0.200
Cadmium
U
0.0471
0.500
Chromium
U
0.133
1.00
Cobalt
U
0.0811
1.00
Copper
U
0.400
2.00
Lead
U
0.208
0.500
Molybdenum
U
0.109
0.500
Nickel
U
0.132
2.00
Selenium
U
0.764
2.00
Silver
U
0.127
1.00
Thallium
U
0.394
2.00
Vanadium
U
0.506
2.00
Zinc
U
0.832
5.00
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635017-2  03/25/21 21:19
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Antimony
100
95.4
95.4
80.0-120
Arsenic
100
95.9
95.9
80.0-120
Barium
100
102
102
80.0-120
Beryllium
100
99.6
99.6
80.0-120
Cadmium
100
96.4
96.4
80.0-120
Chromium
100
97.8
97.8
80.0-120
Cobalt
100
101
101
80.0-120
Copper
100
96.1
96.1
80.0-120
Lead
100
98.8
98.8
80.0-120
Molybdenum
100
103
103
80.0-120
Nickel
100
101
101
80.0-120
Selenium
100
95.9
95.9
80.0-120
Silver
20.0
18.9
94.5
80.0-120
Thallium
100
98.0
98.0
80.0-120
Vanadium
100
99.6
99.6
80.0-120
Zinc
100
98.4
98.4
80.0-120
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
15 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
15 of 30
797 of 1252

--- page 798 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1329287-01,02
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/25/21 21:22 • (MS) R3635017-5  03/25/21 21:30 • (MSD) R3635017-6  03/25/21 21:33
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Antimony
125
U
103
94.8
81.9
75.6
1
75.0-125
8.01
20
Arsenic
125
U
110
106
87.7
84.2
1
75.0-125
4.03
20
Barium
125
121
220
223
78.9
81.3
1
75.0-125
1.38
20
Beryllium
125
0.471
120
115
95.3
91.1
1
75.0-125
4.42
20
Cadmium
125
0.152
117
111
92.9
88.7
1
75.0-125
4.61
20
Chromium
125
65.3
171
175
84.0
87.6
1
75.0-125
2.65
20
Cobalt
125
19.2
140
139
96.6
95.8
1
75.0-125
0.725
20
Copper
125
24.3
137
132
89.6
86.0
1
75.0-125
3.35
20
Lead
125
6.78
128
124
96.4
93.3
1
75.0-125
3.06
20
Molybdenum
125
U
117
111
93.2
88.6
1
75.0-125
5.00
20
Nickel
125
131
221
247
72.1
92.3
1
75.0-125
J6
10.8
20
Selenium
125
U
103
101
82.4
80.2
1
75.0-125
2.77
20
Silver
25.1
U
23.1
21.9
92.2
87.2
1
75.0-125
5.60
20
Thallium
125
U
118
112
94.3
89.3
1
75.0-125
5.53
20
Vanadium
125
43.5
150
154
85.3
88.2
1
75.0-125
2.38
20
Zinc
125
41.6
150
149
86.4
85.8
1
75.0-125
0.482
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
16 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
16 of 30
798 of 1252

--- page 799 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639760
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634648-3  03/24/21 19:03
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
TPHG C5 - C12
U
0.0332
0.100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
116
 
 
77.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634648-2  03/24/21 17:56
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5.50
6.27
114
72.0-125
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
111
77.0-120
 
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/24/21 20:44 • (MS) R3634648-4  03/24/21 22:34 • (MSD) R3634648-5  03/24/21 22:56
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.76
0.0473
2.90
3.11
42.2
45.3
1
10.0-141
7.10
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
98.6
98.8
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
L1329289-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329289-01  03/24/21 22:12 • (MS) R3634648-6  03/24/21 23:18 • (MSD) R3634648-7  03/24/21 23:40
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
6.15
U
4.27
3.88
69.5
62.5
1
10.0-141
9.68
29
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
101
97.6
 
77.0-120
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
17 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
17 of 30
799 of 1252

--- page 800 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634702-3  03/25/21 07:41
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Acetone
U
0.0365
0.0500
Acrylonitrile
U
0.00361
0.0125
Benzene
U
0.000467
0.00100
Bromobenzene
U
0.000900
0.0125
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.000725
0.00250
Bromoform
U
0.00117
0.0250
Bromomethane
U
0.00197
0.0125
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.00525
0.0125
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.00288
0.0125
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.00195
0.00500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.000898
0.00500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.000210
0.00250
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.000612
0.00250
Chloroethane
U
0.00170
0.00500
Chloroform
U
0.00103
0.00250
Chloromethane
U
0.00435
0.0125
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000865
0.00250
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.000450
0.00500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.00390
0.0250
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.000648
0.00250
Dibromomethane
U
0.000750
0.00500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000425
0.00500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000600
0.00500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.000700
0.00500
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.00161
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.000491
0.00250
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.000649
0.00250
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.000606
0.00250
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.000734
0.00250
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.00104
0.00500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00142
0.00500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.000809
0.00250
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.000501
0.00500
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.000757
0.00250
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.00114
0.00500
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.00138
0.00250
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.000410
0.00100
Ethylbenzene
U
0.000737
0.00250
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.00600
0.0250
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.000425
0.00250
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
18 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
18 of 30
800 of 1252

--- page 801 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634702-3  03/25/21 07:41
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.00255
0.00500
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.112
0.0635
0.100
Methylene Chloride
U
0.00664
0.0250
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00228
0.0250
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.000350
0.00100
Naphthalene
U
0.00488
0.0125
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.000950
0.00500
Styrene
U
0.000229
0.0125
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000948
0.00250
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.000695
0.00250
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.000896
0.00250
Toluene
U
0.00130
0.00500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.000754
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00733
0.0125
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.00440
0.0125
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.000923
0.00250
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.000597
0.00250
Trichloroethene
U
0.000584
0.00100
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.000827
0.00250
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.00162
0.0125
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00158
0.00500
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.00408
J
0.00158
0.00500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.00200
0.00500
Vinyl chloride
U
0.00116
0.00250
Xylenes, Total
0.00278
J
0.000880
0.00650
    (S) Toluene-d8
111
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
86.4
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
96.9
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634702-1  03/25/21 06:25 • (LCSD) R3634702-2  03/25/21 06:44
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.625
1.44
1.43
230
229
10.0-160
J4
J4
0.697
31
Acrylonitrile
0.625
0.878
0.869
140
139
45.0-153
1.03
22
Benzene
0.125
0.111
0.110
88.8
88.0
70.0-123
0.905
20
Bromobenzene
0.125
0.119
0.122
95.2
97.6
73.0-121
2.49
20
Bromodichloromethane
0.125
0.119
0.120
95.2
96.0
73.0-121
0.837
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
19 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
19 of 30
801 of 1252

--- page 802 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634702-1  03/25/21 06:25 • (LCSD) R3634702-2  03/25/21 06:44
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Bromoform
0.125
0.132
0.130
106
104
64.0-132
1.53
20
Bromomethane
0.125
0.125
0.127
100
102
56.0-147
1.59
20
n-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.102
0.107
81.6
85.6
68.0-135
4.78
20
sec-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.122
0.118
97.6
94.4
74.0-130
3.33
20
tert-Butylbenzene
0.125
0.116
0.112
92.8
89.6
75.0-127
3.51
20
Carbon tetrachloride
0.125
0.112
0.121
89.6
96.8
66.0-128
7.73
20
Chlorobenzene
0.125
0.116
0.119
92.8
95.2
76.0-128
2.55
20
Chlorodibromomethane
0.125
0.120
0.120
96.0
96.0
74.0-127
0.000
20
Chloroethane
0.125
0.127
0.129
102
103
61.0-134
1.56
20
Chloroform
0.125
0.110
0.116
88.0
92.8
72.0-123
5.31
20
Chloromethane
0.125
0.123
0.119
98.4
95.2
51.0-138
3.31
20
2-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.120
0.121
96.0
96.8
75.0-124
0.830
20
4-Chlorotoluene
0.125
0.125
0.117
100
93.6
75.0-124
6.61
20
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.125
0.127
0.131
102
105
59.0-130
3.10
20
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.125
0.117
0.121
93.6
96.8
74.0-128
3.36
20
Dibromomethane
0.125
0.116
0.114
92.8
91.2
75.0-122
1.74
20
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.120
0.118
96.0
94.4
76.0-124
1.68
20
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.124
0.121
99.2
96.8
76.0-125
2.45
20
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.125
0.114
0.115
91.2
92.0
77.0-121
0.873
20
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.125
0.132
0.135
106
108
43.0-156
2.25
20
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.112
0.114
89.6
91.2
70.0-127
1.77
20
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.125
0.111
0.117
88.8
93.6
65.0-131
5.26
20
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.120
0.123
96.0
98.4
65.0-131
2.47
20
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.103
0.109
82.4
87.2
73.0-125
5.66
20
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.125
0.104
0.109
83.2
87.2
71.0-125
4.69
20
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.122
0.122
97.6
97.6
74.0-125
0.000
20
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.119
0.122
95.2
97.6
73.0-125
2.49
20
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.118
0.122
94.4
97.6
80.0-125
3.33
20
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.112
0.108
89.6
86.4
76.0-127
3.64
20
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.125
0.123
0.118
98.4
94.4
73.0-127
4.15
20
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.125
0.106
0.109
84.8
87.2
59.0-135
2.79
20
Di-isopropyl ether
0.125
0.111
0.114
88.8
91.2
60.0-136
2.67
20
Ethylbenzene
0.125
0.118
0.121
94.4
96.8
74.0-126
2.51
20
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.125
0.0936
0.0985
74.9
78.8
57.0-150
5.10
20
Isopropylbenzene
0.125
0.103
0.107
82.4
85.6
72.0-127
3.81
20
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.125
0.112
0.108
89.6
86.4
72.0-133
3.64
20
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.625
0.833
0.888
133
142
30.0-160
6.39
24
Methylene Chloride
0.125
0.108
0.106
86.4
84.8
68.0-123
1.87
20
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.625
0.749
0.721
120
115
56.0-143
3.81
20
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.125
0.108
0.103
86.4
82.4
66.0-132
4.74
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
20 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
20 of 30
802 of 1252

--- page 803 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3634702-1  03/25/21 06:25 • (LCSD) R3634702-2  03/25/21 06:44
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Naphthalene
0.125
0.0978
0.100
78.2
80.0
59.0-130
2.22
20
n-Propylbenzene
0.125
0.124
0.126
99.2
101
74.0-126
1.60
20
Styrene
0.125
0.108
0.114
86.4
91.2
72.0-127
5.41
20
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.109
0.111
87.2
88.8
74.0-129
1.82
20
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.125
0.139
0.135
111
108
68.0-128
2.92
20
Tetrachloroethene
0.125
0.118
0.119
94.4
95.2
70.0-136
0.844
20
Toluene
0.125
0.118
0.122
94.4
97.6
75.0-121
3.33
20
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.125
0.116
0.120
92.8
96.0
61.0-139
3.39
20
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0768
0.0801
61.4
64.1
59.0-139
4.21
20
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.125
0.0852
0.0939
68.2
75.1
62.0-137
9.72
20
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.103
0.105
82.4
84.0
69.0-126
1.92
20
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.125
0.113
0.110
90.4
88.0
78.0-123
2.69
20
Trichloroethene
0.125
0.108
0.110
86.4
88.0
76.0-126
1.83
20
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.125
0.118
0.120
94.4
96.0
61.0-142
1.68
20
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.125
0.145
0.142
116
114
67.0-129
2.09
20
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.113
0.116
90.4
92.8
74.0-124
2.62
20
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.121
0.121
96.8
96.8
70.0-126
0.000
20
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.125
0.120
0.118
96.0
94.4
73.0-127
1.68
20
Vinyl chloride
0.125
0.121
0.114
96.8
91.2
63.0-134
5.96
20
Xylenes, Total
0.375
0.343
0.336
91.5
89.6
72.0-127
2.06
20
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
104
104
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
88.3
90.1
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
117
111
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/25/21 15:52 • (MS) R3634702-4  03/25/21 17:27 • (MSD) R3634702-5  03/25/21 17:46
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
0.943
U
0.991
0.905
105
96.0
1
10.0-160
9.07
40
Acrylonitrile
0.943
U
0.694
0.780
73.6
82.7
1
10.0-160
11.7
40
Benzene
0.189
U
0.0869
0.145
46.1
76.8
1
10.0-149
J3
50.0
37
Bromobenzene
0.189
U
0.148
0.176
78.3
93.6
1
10.0-156
17.8
38
Bromodichloromethane
0.189
U
0.121
0.163
63.9
86.4
1
10.0-143
29.9
37
Bromoform
0.189
U
0.163
0.184
86.4
97.6
1
10.0-146
12.2
36
Bromomethane
0.189
U
0.0516
0.0929
27.4
49.3
1
10.0-149
J3
57.2
38
n-Butylbenzene
0.189
U
0.0976
0.170
51.8
90.4
1
10.0-160
J3
54.4
40
sec-Butylbenzene
0.189
U
0.111
0.186
59.0
98.4
1
10.0-159
J3
50.0
39
tert-Butylbenzene
0.189
U
0.110
0.176
58.6
93.6
1
10.0-156
J3
46.1
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
21 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
21 of 30
803 of 1252

--- page 804 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/25/21 15:52 • (MS) R3634702-4  03/25/21 17:27 • (MSD) R3634702-5  03/25/21 17:46
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Carbon tetrachloride
0.189
U
0.0725
0.161
38.5
85.6
1
10.0-145
J3
76.0
37
Chlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.116
0.169
61.4
89.6
1
10.0-152
37.3
39
Chlorodibromomethane
0.189
U
0.152
0.204
80.8
108
1
10.0-146
28.8
37
Chloroethane
0.189
U
0.0323
0.0638
17.1
33.8
1
10.0-146
J3
65.6
40
Chloroform
0.189
U
0.0931
0.158
49.4
84.0
1
10.0-146
J3
51.9
37
Chloromethane
0.189
U
0.0486
0.0932
25.8
49.4
1
10.0-159
J3
63.0
37
2-Chlorotoluene
0.189
U
0.123
0.175
65.0
92.8
1
10.0-159
35.2
38
4-Chlorotoluene
0.189
U
0.134
0.183
71.1
96.8
1
10.0-155
30.6
39
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
0.189
U
0.145
0.172
77.0
91.2
1
10.0-151
16.8
39
1,2-Dibromoethane
0.189
U
0.151
0.164
80.0
87.2
1
10.0-148
8.61
34
Dibromomethane
0.189
U
0.100
0.126
53.0
66.6
1
10.0-147
22.7
35
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.140
0.186
74.4
98.4
1
10.0-155
27.8
37
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.129
0.181
68.6
96.0
1
10.0-153
33.3
38
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.133
0.176
70.8
93.6
1
10.0-151
27.7
38
Dichlorodifluoromethane
0.189
U
0.0425
0.107
22.6
56.7
1
10.0-160
J3
86.2
35
1,1-Dichloroethane
0.189
U
0.0893
0.151
47.4
80.0
1
10.0-147
J3
51.3
37
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.189
U
0.102
0.143
54.0
76.1
1
10.0-148
33.9
35
1,1-Dichloroethene
0.189
U
0.0688
0.151
36.5
80.0
1
10.0-155
J3
74.7
37
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.189
U
0.0836
0.137
44.3
72.4
1
10.0-149
J3
48.1
37
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
0.189
U
0.0679
0.130
36.0
69.0
1
10.0-150
J3
62.9
37
1,2-Dichloropropane
0.189
U
0.116
0.170
61.7
90.4
1
10.0-148
J3
37.8
37
1,1-Dichloropropene
0.189
U
0.0691
0.140
36.6
74.0
1
10.0-153
J3
67.5
35
1,3-Dichloropropane
0.189
U
0.154
0.178
81.6
94.4
1
10.0-154
14.5
35
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.189
U
0.115
0.152
61.0
80.8
1
10.0-151
28.0
37
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
0.189
U
0.157
0.201
83.2
106
1
10.0-148
24.5
37
2,2-Dichloropropane
0.189
U
0.0738
0.148
39.1
78.2
1
10.0-138
J3
66.7
36
Di-isopropyl ether
0.189
U
0.127
0.169
67.6
89.6
1
10.0-147
28.0
36
Ethylbenzene
0.189
U
0.0961
0.166
51.0
88.0
1
10.0-160
J3
53.3
38
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
0.189
U
0.0811
0.164
43.0
87.2
1
10.0-160
J3
67.8
40
Isopropylbenzene
0.189
U
0.0845
0.160
44.8
84.8
1
10.0-155
J3
61.7
38
p-Isopropyltoluene
0.189
U
0.105
0.175
55.5
92.8
1
10.0-160
J3
50.3
40
2-Butanone (MEK)
0.943
0.152
1.03
0.967
92.8
86.4
1
10.0-160
6.05
40
Methylene Chloride
0.189
U
0.119
0.167
63.2
88.8
1
10.0-141
33.7
37
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.943
U
1.02
1.17
109
124
1
10.0-160
13.6
35
Methyl tert-butyl ether
0.189
U
0.118
0.137
62.7
72.9
1
11.0-147
15.0
35
Naphthalene
0.189
U
0.101
0.134
53.5
70.9
1
10.0-160
27.9
36
n-Propylbenzene
0.189
U
0.115
0.192
61.0
102
1
10.0-158
J3
49.9
38
Styrene
0.189
U
0.109
0.152
57.9
80.8
1
10.0-160
33.0
40
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.189
U
0.124
0.167
65.6
88.8
1
10.0-149
30.1
39
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
22 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
22 of 30
804 of 1252

--- page 805 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640318
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-01,02
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/25/21 15:52 • (MS) R3634702-4  03/25/21 17:27 • (MSD) R3634702-5  03/25/21 17:46
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
0.189
U
0.211
0.201
112
106
1
10.0-160
5.13
35
Tetrachloroethene
0.189
U
0.0804
0.178
42.6
94.4
1
10.0-156
J3
75.5
39
Toluene
0.189
U
0.106
0.196
56.0
104
1
10.0-156
J3
60.0
38
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
0.189
U
0.0697
0.179
37.0
95.2
1
10.0-160
J3
88.1
36
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.0919
0.133
48.7
70.3
1
10.0-160
36.3
40
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.189
U
0.0950
0.138
50.4
73.2
1
10.0-160
36.9
40
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
0.189
U
0.0727
0.152
38.6
80.8
1
10.0-144
J3
70.8
35
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
0.189
U
0.152
0.196
80.8
104
1
10.0-160
25.1
35
Trichloroethene
0.189
U
0.0786
0.147
41.7
78.0
1
10.0-156
J3
60.7
38
Trichlorofluoromethane
0.189
U
0.0379
0.0837
20.1
44.4
1
10.0-160
J3
75.4
40
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
0.189
U
0.213
0.207
113
110
1
10.0-156
2.88
35
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
0.189
U
0.125
0.173
66.6
92.0
1
10.0-160
32.1
36
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
0.189
0.00347
0.118
0.167
60.6
87.0
1
10.0-160
34.9
36
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
0.189
U
0.111
0.172
59.1
91.2
1
10.0-160
J3
42.7
38
Vinyl chloride
0.189
U
0.0454
0.105
24.1
55.7
1
10.0-160
J3
79.2
37
Xylenes, Total
0.566
0.00173
0.282
0.481
49.6
84.8
1
10.0-160
J3
52.2
38
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
 
113
126
 
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
 
88.1
89.1
 
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
 
89.1
92.3
 
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
23 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
23 of 30
805 of 1252

--- page 806 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640688
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329287-02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635424-3  03/26/21 14:48
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.00228
0.0250
    (S) Toluene-d8
108
 
 
75.0-131
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
98.4
 
 
67.0-138
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
91.6
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS) • Laboratory Control Sample Duplicate (LCSD)
(LCS) R3635424-1  03/26/21 13:31 • (LCSD) R3635424-2  03/26/21 13:50
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCSD Result
LCS Rec.
LCSD Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
LCSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
0.625
0.718
0.712
115
114
56.0-143
0.839
20
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
101
101
75.0-131
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
103
103
67.0-138
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
104
102
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
24 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
24 of 30
806 of 1252

--- page 807 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639779
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 8015
L1329287-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634953-1  03/25/21 16:28
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
0.733
4.00
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
1.33
4.00
    (S) o-Terphenyl
101
 
 
18.0-148
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634953-2  03/25/21 16:43
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
25.0
20.4
81.6
50.0-150
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
25.0
24.3
97.2
50.0-150
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
76.6
18.0-148
 
L1329287-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329287-01  03/25/21 23:46 • (MS) R3634953-3  03/26/21 00:01 • (MSD) R3634953-4  03/26/21 00:15
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
30.3
7.06
29.5
31.6
73.8
80.2
1
50.0-150
6.98
20
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
30.3
4.18
31.4
31.0
89.5
87.6
1
50.0-150
1.21
20
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
 
 
73.1
67.5
 
18.0-148
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
25 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
25 of 30
807 of 1252

--- page 808 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
(dry)
Results are reported based on the dry weight of the sample. [this will only be present on a dry report basis for soils].
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
MDL (dry)
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
RDL (dry)
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
(S)
Surrogate (Surrogate Standard) - Analytes added to every blank, sample, Laboratory Control Sample/Duplicate and 
Matrix Spike/Duplicate; used to evaluate analytical efficiency by measuring recovery. Surrogates are not expected to be 
detected in all environmental media.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
B
The same analyte is found in the associated blank.
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J3
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J4
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for accuracy.
J6
The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
26 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
26 of 30
808 of 1252

--- page 809 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 09:17
27 of 30
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329287
03/29/21 11:32
27 of 30
809 of 1252

--- page 810 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 29, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1329291
Samples Received:
03/20/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001
Description:
Lane Partners 222 E 4th Ave
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 29, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
1 of 26
March 29, 2021
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
1 of 26
810 of 1252

--- page 811 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
6
      SB-02    L1329291-01 
6
      SB-11    L1329291-02 
8
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
10
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015 
10
      Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B 
11
      Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015 
22
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
23
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
24
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
25
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
2 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
2 of 26
811 of 1252

--- page 812 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-02  L1329291-01  GW
Erin Male
03/18/21 15:50
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639497
1
03/24/21 08:10
03/24/21 08:10
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1640339
1
03/25/21 11:18
03/25/21 11:18
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
WG1640518
1
03/26/21 10:56
03/26/21 19:18
WCR
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-11  L1329291-02  GW
Erin Male
03/18/21 16:10
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
WG1639497
1
03/24/21 08:37
03/24/21 08:37
BMB
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1639042
1
03/23/21 19:01
03/23/21 19:01
JHH
Mt. Juliet, TN
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
WG1639681
1
03/25/21 02:57
03/25/21 02:57
ADM
Mt. Juliet, TN
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
WG1640518
1
03/26/21 10:56
03/26/21 18:17
WCR
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
3 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
3 of 26
812 of 1252

--- page 813 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
 Sample Delivery Group (SDG) Narrative
No extra volume received to perform Matrix Spike samples.
Lab Sample ID
Project Sample ID
Method
L1329291-01
SB-02
3511/8015
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
4 of 26
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
4 of 26
813 of 1252

--- page 814 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
SB-02
L1329291-01
Benzene
0.111
J J3 J6
0.0941
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
SB-02
L1329291-01
Chloroform
3.67
J3 J6
0.111
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
SB-11
L1329291-02
Chloroform
0.571
0.111
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
SB-02
L1329291-01
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
95.2
J
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
SB-02
L1329291-01
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
150
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
SB-11
L1329291-02
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
353
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
SB-11
L1329291-02
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
180
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
SB-11
L1329291-02
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
187
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
5 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
5 of 26
814 of 1252

--- page 815 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1329291
SB-02
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 15:50
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
30.4
100
1
03/24/2021 08:10
WG1639497
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
115
78.0-120
03/24/2021 08:10
WG1639497
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Acetone
U
11.3
25.0
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Acrylonitrile
U
J3
0.671
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Benzene
0.111
J J3 J6
0.0941
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Bromobenzene
U
J3
0.118
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Bromodichloromethane
U
J3
0.136
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Bromochloromethane
U
J3 J6
0.128
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Bromoform
U
J3
0.129
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Bromomethane
U
J3 J6
0.605
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
n-Butylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.157
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
sec-Butylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.125
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
tert-Butylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.127
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Carbon disulfide
U
J3 J6
0.0962
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Carbon tetrachloride
U
J3 J6
0.128
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Chlorobenzene
U
J3 J6
0.117
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Chlorodibromomethane
U
J3
0.140
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Chloroethane
U
J3 J6
0.192
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Chloroform
3.67
J3 J6
0.111
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Chloromethane
U
J3 J6
0.960
1.25
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
2-Chlorotoluene
U
J3 J6
0.106
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
4-Chlorotoluene
U
J3 J6
0.114
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
J3
0.276
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
J3
0.126
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Dibromomethane
U
J3
0.122
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
J3
0.107
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
J3 J6
0.299
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
J3 J6
0.120
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
J3 J6
0.374
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
J3 J6
0.100
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
J3
0.0819
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
J3 J6
0.188
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
J3
0.126
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
J3 J6
0.149
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
J3 J6
0.149
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
J3 J6
0.142
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
J3
0.109
1.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
J3 J6
0.111
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
J3
0.118
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
U
0.467
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
J3 J6
0.161
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Di-isopropyl ether
U
J3
0.105
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Ethylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.137
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
J3 J6
0.337
1.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
2-Hexanone
U
J3
0.787
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
n-Hexane
U
J3
0.749
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Iodomethane
U
J3
0.554
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Isopropylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.105
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
J3 J6
0.120
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
2-Butanone (MEK)
U
1.19
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Methylene Chloride
U
J3
0.430
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
6 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
6 of 26
815 of 1252

--- page 816 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1329291
SB-02
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 15:50
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
J3
0.478
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
J3
0.101
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Naphthalene
U
J3
0.174
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
n-Propylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.0993
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Styrene
U
J3 J6
0.118
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
J3 J6
0.147
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
J3
0.133
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
J3 J6
0.180
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Tetrachloroethene
U
J3
0.300
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Toluene
U
J3 J6
0.278
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
J3
0.164
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
J3
0.481
1.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
J3 J6
0.149
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
J3
0.158
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Trichloroethene
U
J3
0.190
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
J3 J6
0.160
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
J3
0.237
2.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.322
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
J3 J4
0.104
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
J3 J6
0.104
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Vinyl acetate
U
J3
0.692
5.00
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Vinyl chloride
U
J3 J6
0.234
0.500
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Xylenes, Total
U
J3 J6
0.174
1.50
1
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
    (S) Toluene-d8
96.3
80.0-120
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
89.9
77.0-126
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
109
70.0-130
03/25/2021 11:18
WG1640339
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
95.2
J
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
150
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
    (S) o-Terphenyl
79.5
52.0-156
03/26/2021 19:18
WG1640518
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
7 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
7 of 26
816 of 1252

--- page 817 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1329291
SB-11
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 16:10
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
TPHG C5 - C12
U
30.4
100
1
03/24/2021 08:37
WG1639497
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
115
78.0-120
03/24/2021 08:37
WG1639497
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Acetone
U
11.3
25.0
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Acrylonitrile
U
0.671
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Benzene
U
0.0941
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Bromobenzene
U
0.118
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.136
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Bromochloromethane
U
0.128
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Bromoform
U
0.129
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Bromomethane
U
0.605
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.157
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.125
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.127
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Carbon disulfide
U
0.0962
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.128
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Chlorobenzene
U
0.117
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.140
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Chloroethane
U
0.192
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Chloroform
0.571
0.111
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Chloromethane
U
0.960
1.25
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.106
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.114
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.276
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.126
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Dibromomethane
U
0.122
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.107
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.299
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.120
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.374
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.100
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.0819
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.188
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.126
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.149
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.149
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.142
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.109
1.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.111
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.118
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
U
0.467
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.161
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.105
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Ethylbenzene
U
0.137
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.337
1.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
2-Hexanone
U
0.787
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
n-Hexane
U
0.749
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Iodomethane
U
0.554
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.105
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.120
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
2-Butanone (MEK)
U
1.19
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Methylene Chloride
U
0.430
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
8 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
8 of 26
817 of 1252

--- page 818 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1329291
SB-11
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 16:10
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.478
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.101
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Naphthalene
U
0.174
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.0993
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Styrene
U
0.118
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.147
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.133
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.180
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.300
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Toluene
U
0.278
0.500
1
03/25/2021 02:57
WG1639681
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.164
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.481
1.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.149
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.158
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Trichloroethene
U
0.190
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.160
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.237
2.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.322
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Vinyl acetate
U
0.692
5.00
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Vinyl chloride
U
0.234
0.500
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
Xylenes, Total
U
0.174
1.50
1
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
    (S) Toluene-d8
101
80.0-120
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
    (S) Toluene-d8
106
80.0-120
03/25/2021 02:57
WG1639681
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
101
77.0-126
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
95.6
77.0-126
03/25/2021 02:57
WG1639681
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
103
70.0-130
03/23/2021 19:01
WG1639042
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
116
70.0-130
03/25/2021 02:57
WG1639681
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
353
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
180
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
187
33.0
100
1
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
    (S) o-Terphenyl
98.9
52.0-156
03/26/2021 18:17
WG1640518
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
9 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
9 of 26
818 of 1252

--- page 819 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639497
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC) by Method 8015
L1329291-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634812-2  03/24/21 05:04
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
TPHG C5 - C12
U
30.4
100
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
115
 
 
78.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634812-1  03/24/21 03:47
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5500
5070
92.2
71.0-127
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
84.5
78.0-120
 
L1329291-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329291-01  03/24/21 08:10 • (MS) R3634812-3  03/24/21 15:41 • (MSD) R3634812-4  03/24/21 16:07
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
%
%
%
TPHG C5 - C12
5500
U
5070
4920
92.2
89.5
1
10.0-158
3.00
20
    (S) 
a,a,a-Trifluorotoluene(FID)
 
 
 
 
85.0
86.3
 
78.0-120
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
10 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
10 of 26
819 of 1252

--- page 820 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639042
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633859-2  03/23/21 11:40
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Acetone
U
11.3
25.0
Acrylonitrile
U
0.671
5.00
Benzene
U
0.0941
0.500
Bromobenzene
U
0.118
0.500
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.136
0.500
Bromochloromethane
U
0.128
0.500
Bromoform
U
0.129
0.500
Bromomethane
U
0.605
2.50
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.157
0.500
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.125
0.500
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.127
0.500
Carbon disulfide
U
0.0962
0.500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.128
0.500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.117
0.500
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.140
0.500
Chloroethane
U
0.192
2.50
Chloroform
U
0.111
0.500
Chloromethane
U
0.960
1.25
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.106
0.500
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.114
0.500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.276
2.50
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.126
0.500
Dibromomethane
U
0.122
0.500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.107
0.500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.299
0.500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.120
0.500
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.374
2.50
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.100
0.500
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.0819
0.500
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.188
0.500
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.126
0.500
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.149
0.500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.149
0.500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.142
0.500
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.109
1.00
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.111
0.500
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.118
0.500
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
U
0.467
5.00
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.161
0.500
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.105
0.500
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
11 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
11 of 26
820 of 1252

--- page 821 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639042
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633859-2  03/23/21 11:40
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Ethylbenzene
U
0.137
0.500
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.337
1.00
2-Hexanone
U
0.787
5.00
n-Hexane
U
0.749
5.00
Iodomethane
U
0.554
5.00
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.105
0.500
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.120
0.500
2-Butanone (MEK)
U
1.19
5.00
Methylene Chloride
U
0.430
2.50
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.478
5.00
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.101
0.500
Naphthalene
U
0.174
2.50
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.0993
0.500
Styrene
U
0.118
0.500
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.147
0.500
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.133
0.500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.180
0.500
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.300
0.500
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.164
0.500
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.481
1.00
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.149
0.500
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.158
0.500
Trichloroethene
U
0.190
0.500
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.160
2.50
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.237
2.50
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.322
0.500
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
Vinyl acetate
U
0.692
5.00
Vinyl chloride
U
0.234
0.500
Xylenes, Total
U
0.174
1.50
    (S) Toluene-d8
102
 
 
80.0-120
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
97.9
 
 
77.0-126
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
103
 
 
70.0-130
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
12 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
12 of 26
821 of 1252

--- page 822 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639042
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-02
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633859-1  03/23/21 10:59
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Acetone
25.0
21.5
86.0
19.0-160
Acrylonitrile
25.0
27.7
111
55.0-149
Benzene
5.00
4.71
94.2
70.0-123
Bromobenzene
5.00
4.41
88.2
73.0-121
Bromodichloromethane
5.00
5.19
104
75.0-120
Bromochloromethane
5.00
5.22
104
76.0-122
Bromoform
5.00
4.84
96.8
68.0-132
Bromomethane
5.00
6.68
134
10.0-160
n-Butylbenzene
5.00
5.81
116
73.0-125
sec-Butylbenzene
5.00
4.56
91.2
75.0-125
tert-Butylbenzene
5.00
4.17
83.4
76.0-124
Carbon disulfide
5.00
4.96
99.2
61.0-128
Carbon tetrachloride
5.00
4.38
87.6
68.0-126
Chlorobenzene
5.00
4.75
95.0
80.0-121
Chlorodibromomethane
5.00
4.69
93.8
77.0-125
Chloroethane
5.00
6.87
137
47.0-150
Chloroform
5.00
5.13
103
73.0-120
Chloromethane
5.00
5.48
110
41.0-142
2-Chlorotoluene
5.00
4.24
84.8
76.0-123
4-Chlorotoluene
5.00
4.34
86.8
75.0-122
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
5.00
5.04
101
58.0-134
1,2-Dibromoethane
5.00
4.93
98.6
80.0-122
Dibromomethane
5.00
5.16
103
80.0-120
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
4.78
95.6
79.0-121
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
4.89
97.8
79.0-120
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
5.10
102
79.0-120
Dichlorodifluoromethane
5.00
4.82
96.4
51.0-149
1,1-Dichloroethane
5.00
5.26
105
70.0-126
1,2-Dichloroethane
5.00
4.91
98.2
70.0-128
1,1-Dichloroethene
5.00
5.00
100
71.0-124
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
5.07
101
73.0-120
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
5.27
105
73.0-120
1,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
5.07
101
77.0-125
1,1-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.96
99.2
74.0-126
1,3-Dichloropropane
5.00
4.91
98.2
80.0-120
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.93
98.6
80.0-123
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.74
94.8
78.0-124
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
5.00
4.18
83.6
33.0-144
2,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
5.59
112
58.0-130
Di-isopropyl ether
5.00
5.10
102
58.0-138
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
13 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
13 of 26
822 of 1252

--- page 823 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639042
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-02
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633859-1  03/23/21 10:59
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Ethylbenzene
5.00
4.79
95.8
79.0-123
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
5.00
5.01
100
54.0-138
2-Hexanone
25.0
26.6
106
67.0-149
n-Hexane
5.00
5.24
105
57.0-133
Iodomethane
25.0
25.2
101
33.0-147
Isopropylbenzene
5.00
5.36
107
76.0-127
p-Isopropyltoluene
5.00
4.93
98.6
76.0-125
2-Butanone (MEK)
25.0
25.4
102
44.0-160
Methylene Chloride
5.00
4.97
99.4
67.0-120
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
25.0
26.2
105
68.0-142
Methyl tert-butyl ether
5.00
5.14
103
68.0-125
Naphthalene
5.00
4.68
93.6
54.0-135
n-Propylbenzene
5.00
4.58
91.6
77.0-124
Styrene
5.00
4.87
97.4
73.0-130
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
4.95
99.0
75.0-125
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
4.50
90.0
65.0-130
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
5.00
4.41
88.2
69.0-132
Tetrachloroethene
5.00
4.84
96.8
72.0-132
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
4.97
99.4
50.0-138
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
4.56
91.2
57.0-137
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
5.00
4.95
99.0
73.0-124
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
5.00
4.98
99.6
80.0-120
Trichloroethene
5.00
4.99
99.8
78.0-124
Trichlorofluoromethane
5.00
5.25
105
59.0-147
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
5.00
4.35
87.0
73.0-130
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
4.40
88.0
76.0-121
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
4.97
99.4
77.0-120
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
4.44
88.8
76.0-122
Vinyl acetate
25.0
32.7
131
11.0-160
Vinyl chloride
5.00
4.51
90.2
67.0-131
Xylenes, Total
15.0
14.9
99.3
79.0-123
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
98.8
80.0-120
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
103
77.0-126
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
106
70.0-130
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
14 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
14 of 26
823 of 1252

--- page 824 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1639681
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634671-3  03/24/21 18:57
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Toluene
U
0.278
0.500
    (S) Toluene-d8
106
 
 
80.0-120
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
90.7
 
 
77.0-126
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
114
 
 
70.0-130
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634671-1  03/24/21 17:55
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Toluene
5.00
4.87
97.4
79.0-120
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
103
80.0-120
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
94.1
77.0-126
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
113
70.0-130
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
15 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
15 of 26
824 of 1252

--- page 825 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634767-3  03/25/21 09:45
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Acetone
U
11.3
25.0
Acrylonitrile
U
0.671
5.00
Benzene
U
0.0941
0.500
Bromobenzene
U
0.118
0.500
Bromodichloromethane
U
0.136
0.500
Bromochloromethane
U
0.128
0.500
Bromoform
U
0.129
0.500
Bromomethane
U
0.605
2.50
n-Butylbenzene
U
0.157
0.500
sec-Butylbenzene
U
0.125
0.500
tert-Butylbenzene
U
0.127
0.500
Carbon disulfide
U
0.0962
0.500
Carbon tetrachloride
U
0.128
0.500
Chlorobenzene
U
0.117
0.500
Chlorodibromomethane
U
0.140
0.500
Chloroethane
U
0.192
2.50
Chloroform
U
0.111
0.500
Chloromethane
U
0.960
1.25
2-Chlorotoluene
U
0.106
0.500
4-Chlorotoluene
U
0.114
0.500
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
U
0.276
2.50
1,2-Dibromoethane
U
0.126
0.500
Dibromomethane
U
0.122
0.500
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.107
0.500
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.299
0.500
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
U
0.120
0.500
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
U
0.467
5.00
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U
0.374
2.50
1,1-Dichloroethane
U
0.100
0.500
1,2-Dichloroethane
U
0.0819
0.500
1,1-Dichloroethene
U
0.188
0.500
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.126
0.500
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
U
0.149
0.500
1,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.149
0.500
1,1-Dichloropropene
U
0.142
0.500
1,3-Dichloropropane
U
0.109
1.00
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.111
0.500
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
U
0.118
0.500
2,2-Dichloropropane
U
0.161
0.500
Di-isopropyl ether
U
0.105
0.500
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
16 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
16 of 26
825 of 1252

--- page 826 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634767-3  03/25/21 09:45
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Ethylbenzene
U
0.137
0.500
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
U
0.337
1.00
2-Hexanone
U
0.787
5.00
n-Hexane
U
0.749
5.00
Iodomethane
U
0.554
5.00
Isopropylbenzene
U
0.105
0.500
p-Isopropyltoluene
U
0.120
0.500
2-Butanone (MEK)
U
1.19
5.00
Methylene Chloride
U
0.430
2.50
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
U
0.478
5.00
Methyl tert-butyl ether
U
0.101
0.500
Naphthalene
U
0.174
2.50
n-Propylbenzene
U
0.0993
0.500
Styrene
U
0.118
0.500
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.147
0.500
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U
0.133
0.500
Tetrachloroethene
U
0.300
0.500
Toluene
U
0.278
0.500
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
U
0.180
0.500
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.164
0.500
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
U
0.481
1.00
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U
0.149
0.500
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U
0.158
0.500
Trichloroethene
U
0.190
0.500
Trichlorofluoromethane
U
0.160
2.50
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
U
0.237
2.50
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.322
0.500
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
U
0.104
0.500
Vinyl acetate
U
0.692
5.00
Vinyl chloride
U
0.234
0.500
Xylenes, Total
U
0.174
1.50
    (S) Toluene-d8
96.1
 
 
80.0-120
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
90.3
 
 
77.0-126
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
108
 
 
70.0-130
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
17 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
17 of 26
826 of 1252

--- page 827 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634767-1  03/25/21 08:11
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Acetone
25.0
21.6
86.4
19.0-160
Acrylonitrile
25.0
26.9
108
55.0-149
Benzene
5.00
4.50
90.0
70.0-123
Bromobenzene
5.00
5.03
101
73.0-121
Bromodichloromethane
5.00
4.55
91.0
75.0-120
Bromochloromethane
5.00
4.68
93.6
76.0-122
Bromoform
5.00
3.67
73.4
68.0-132
Bromomethane
5.00
4.35
87.0
10.0-160
n-Butylbenzene
5.00
4.95
99.0
73.0-125
sec-Butylbenzene
5.00
5.16
103
75.0-125
tert-Butylbenzene
5.00
4.95
99.0
76.0-124
Carbon disulfide
5.00
5.02
100
61.0-128
Carbon tetrachloride
5.00
4.46
89.2
68.0-126
Chlorobenzene
5.00
4.41
88.2
80.0-121
Chlorodibromomethane
5.00
4.71
94.2
77.0-125
Chloroethane
5.00
5.15
103
47.0-150
Chloroform
5.00
5.11
102
73.0-120
Chloromethane
5.00
5.60
112
41.0-142
2-Chlorotoluene
5.00
5.13
103
76.0-123
4-Chlorotoluene
5.00
4.86
97.2
75.0-122
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
5.00
3.26
65.2
58.0-134
1,2-Dibromoethane
5.00
4.34
86.8
80.0-122
Dibromomethane
5.00
4.71
94.2
80.0-120
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
4.98
99.6
79.0-121
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
4.78
95.6
79.0-120
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
4.87
97.4
79.0-120
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
5.00
4.52
90.4
33.0-144
Dichlorodifluoromethane
5.00
4.40
88.0
51.0-149
1,1-Dichloroethane
5.00
4.75
95.0
70.0-126
1,2-Dichloroethane
5.00
5.56
111
70.0-128
1,1-Dichloroethene
5.00
4.64
92.8
71.0-124
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
4.28
85.6
73.0-120
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
4.85
97.0
73.0-120
1,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
5.31
106
77.0-125
1,1-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.91
98.2
74.0-126
1,3-Dichloropropane
5.00
4.61
92.2
80.0-120
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.83
96.6
80.0-123
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
4.49
89.8
78.0-124
2,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
5.85
117
58.0-130
Di-isopropyl ether
5.00
5.36
107
58.0-138
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
18 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
18 of 26
827 of 1252

--- page 828 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634767-1  03/25/21 08:11
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Ethylbenzene
5.00
4.37
87.4
79.0-123
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
5.00
4.46
89.2
54.0-138
2-Hexanone
25.0
20.7
82.8
67.0-149
n-Hexane
5.00
6.24
125
57.0-133
Iodomethane
25.0
22.3
89.2
33.0-147
Isopropylbenzene
5.00
4.36
87.2
76.0-127
p-Isopropyltoluene
5.00
5.03
101
76.0-125
2-Butanone (MEK)
25.0
22.9
91.6
44.0-160
Methylene Chloride
5.00
4.82
96.4
67.0-120
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
25.0
24.6
98.4
68.0-142
Methyl tert-butyl ether
5.00
4.51
90.2
68.0-125
Naphthalene
5.00
4.37
87.4
54.0-135
n-Propylbenzene
5.00
4.80
96.0
77.0-124
Styrene
5.00
4.45
89.0
73.0-130
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
4.20
84.0
75.0-125
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
5.19
104
65.0-130
Tetrachloroethene
5.00
4.08
81.6
72.0-132
Toluene
5.00
4.46
89.2
79.0-120
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
5.00
4.51
90.2
69.0-132
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
4.36
87.2
50.0-138
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
4.28
85.6
57.0-137
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
5.00
4.73
94.6
73.0-124
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
5.00
4.56
91.2
80.0-120
Trichloroethene
5.00
4.27
85.4
78.0-124
Trichlorofluoromethane
5.00
4.99
99.8
59.0-147
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
5.00
5.11
102
73.0-130
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
6.62
132
77.0-120
J4
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
5.23
105
76.0-121
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
5.30
106
76.0-122
Vinyl acetate
25.0
33.4
134
11.0-160
Vinyl chloride
5.00
4.50
90.0
67.0-131
Xylenes, Total
15.0
13.1
87.3
79.0-123
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
94.1
80.0-120
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
89.3
77.0-126
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
110
70.0-130
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
19 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
19 of 26
828 of 1252

--- page 829 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
L1329291-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329291-01  03/25/21 11:18 • (MS) R3634767-4  03/25/21 18:35 • (MSD) R3634767-5  03/25/21 18:57
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
%
%
%
Acetone
25.0
U
17.3
22.5
69.2
90.0
1
10.0-160
26.1
35
Acrylonitrile
25.0
U
19.1
27.0
76.4
108
1
21.0-160
J3
34.3
32
Benzene
5.00
0.111
0.875
3.50
15.3
67.8
1
17.0-158
J6
J3
120
27
Bromobenzene
5.00
U
1.64
4.12
32.8
82.4
1
30.0-149
J3
86.1
28
Bromodichloromethane
5.00
U
1.57
3.99
31.4
79.8
1
31.0-150
J3
87.1
27
Bromochloromethane
5.00
U
1.68
3.80
33.6
76.0
1
38.0-142
J6
J3
77.4
26
Bromoform
5.00
U
2.06
3.51
41.2
70.2
1
29.0-150
J3
52.1
29
Bromomethane
5.00
U
U
2.77
0.000
55.4
1
10.0-160
J6
J3
200
38
n-Butylbenzene
5.00
U
0.786
3.76
15.7
75.2
1
31.0-150
J6
J3
131
30
sec-Butylbenzene
5.00
U
0.624
4.22
12.5
84.4
1
33.0-155
J6
J3
148
29
tert-Butylbenzene
5.00
U
0.690
3.92
13.8
78.4
1
34.0-153
J6
J3
140
28
Carbon disulfide
5.00
U
0.494
2.59
9.88
51.8
1
10.0-156
J6
J3
136
28
Carbon tetrachloride
5.00
U
0.531
3.84
10.6
76.8
1
23.0-159
J6
J3
151
28
Chlorobenzene
5.00
U
1.10
3.58
22.0
71.6
1
33.0-152
J6
J3
106
27
Chlorodibromomethane
5.00
U
2.07
4.17
41.4
83.4
1
37.0-149
J3
67.3
27
Chloroethane
5.00
U
0.442
3.40
8.84
68.0
1
10.0-160
J6
J3
154
30
Chloroform
5.00
3.67
4.71
7.73
20.8
81.2
1
29.0-154
J6
J3
48.6
28
Chloromethane
5.00
U
U
3.76
0.000
75.2
1
10.0-160
J6
J3
200
29
1,2-Dibromo-3-Chloropropane
5.00
U
2.53
3.72
50.6
74.4
1
22.0-151
J3
38.1
34
1,2-Dibromoethane
5.00
U
2.09
3.83
41.8
76.6
1
34.0-147
J3
58.8
27
Dibromomethane
5.00
U
2.09
4.07
41.8
81.4
1
30.0-151
J3
64.3
27
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
U
1.88
4.27
37.6
85.4
1
34.0-149
J3
77.7
28
1,3-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
U
1.40
3.82
28.0
76.4
1
36.0-146
J6
J3
92.7
27
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
5.00
U
1.62
3.98
32.4
79.6
1
35.0-142
J6
J3
84.3
27
trans-1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
5.00
U
3.49
4.47
69.8
89.4
1
10.0-157
24.6
37
Dichlorodifluoromethane
5.00
U
U
3.30
0.000
66.0
1
10.0-160
J6
J3
200
29
1,1-Dichloroethane
5.00
U
0.804
3.74
16.1
74.8
1
25.0-158
J6
J3
129
27
1,2-Dichloroethane
5.00
U
2.34
4.79
46.8
95.8
1
29.0-151
J3
68.7
27
1,1-Dichloroethene
5.00
U
0.297
3.49
5.94
69.8
1
11.0-160
J6
J3
169
29
cis-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
U
0.956
3.43
19.1
68.6
1
10.0-160
J3
113
27
trans-1,2-Dichloroethene
5.00
U
0.545
3.40
10.9
68.0
1
17.0-153
J6
J3
145
27
1,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
U
1.44
4.31
28.8
86.2
1
30.0-156
J6
J3
99.8
27
cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
U
1.51
3.71
30.2
74.2
1
34.0-149
J6
J3
84.3
28
trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
5.00
U
1.72
3.71
34.4
74.2
1
32.0-149
J3
73.3
28
2-Chlorotoluene
5.00
U
1.07
4.05
21.4
81.0
1
32.0-153
J6
J3
116
28
4-Chlorotoluene
5.00
U
1.17
3.94
23.4
78.8
1
32.0-150
J6
J3
108
28
Di-isopropyl ether
5.00
U
2.10
4.71
42.0
94.2
1
21.0-160
J3
76.7
28
Ethylbenzene
5.00
U
0.712
3.43
14.2
68.6
1
30.0-155
J6
J3
131
27
2-Hexanone
25.0
U
16.7
22.5
66.8
90.0
1
21.0-160
J3
29.6
29
n-Hexane
5.00
U
1.44
4.29
28.8
85.8
1
10.0-153
J3
99.5
28
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
20 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
20 of 26
829 of 1252

--- page 830 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640339
Volatile Organic Compounds (GC/MS) by Method 8260B
L1329291-01
L1329291-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329291-01  03/25/21 11:18 • (MS) R3634767-4  03/25/21 18:35 • (MSD) R3634767-5  03/25/21 18:57
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
%
%
%
Iodomethane
25.0
U
3.40
15.2
0.000
60.8
1
10.0-160
J3
200
40
Isopropylbenzene
5.00
U
0.625
3.59
12.5
71.8
1
28.0-157
J6
J3
141
27
p-Isopropyltoluene
5.00
U
0.670
3.87
13.4
77.4
1
30.0-154
J6
J3
141
29
2-Butanone (MEK)
25.0
U
19.7
24.9
78.8
99.6
1
10.0-160
23.3
32
Methylene Chloride
5.00
U
1.62
3.65
32.4
73.0
1
23.0-144
J3
77.0
28
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
25.0
U
18.4
26.2
73.6
105
1
29.0-160
J3
35.0
29
Methyl tert-butyl ether
5.00
U
2.47
4.22
49.4
84.4
1
28.0-150
J3
52.3
29
1,1-Dichloropropene
5.00
U
0.356
3.67
7.12
73.4
1
25.0-158
J6
J3
165
27
Naphthalene
5.00
U
2.56
4.10
51.2
82.0
1
12.0-156
J3
46.2
35
1,3-Dichloropropane
5.00
U
2.12
4.05
42.4
81.0
1
38.0-147
J3
62.6
27
n-Propylbenzene
5.00
U
0.703
3.78
14.1
75.6
1
31.0-154
J6
J3
137
28
Styrene
5.00
U
1.09
3.52
21.8
70.4
1
33.0-155
J6
J3
105
28
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
U
1.32
3.51
26.4
70.2
1
36.0-151
J6
J3
90.7
29
2,2-Dichloropropane
5.00
U
0.516
4.34
10.3
86.8
1
24.0-152
J6
J3
157
29
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
5.00
U
3.46
5.01
69.2
100
1
33.0-150
J3
36.6
28
Tetrachloroethene
5.00
U
0.522
3.18
10.4
63.6
1
10.0-160
J3
144
27
Toluene
5.00
U
0.988
3.60
19.8
72.0
1
26.0-154
J6
J3
114
28
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
U
2.01
3.66
40.2
73.2
1
17.0-150
J3
58.2
36
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene
5.00
U
0.642
2.93
12.8
58.6
1
20.0-154
J6
J3
128
34
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
5.00
U
1.77
3.64
35.4
72.8
1
24.0-150
J3
69.1
33
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
5.00
U
0.514
3.89
10.3
77.8
1
23.0-160
J6
J3
153
28
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
5.00
U
2.27
4.23
45.4
84.6
1
35.0-147
J3
60.3
27
Trichloroethene
5.00
U
0.787
3.25
15.7
65.0
1
10.0-160
J3
122
25
Trichlorofluoromethane
5.00
U
0.170
4.09
3.40
81.8
1
17.0-160
J6
J3
184
31
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
5.00
U
3.38
5.17
67.6
103
1
34.0-151
J3
41.9
29
1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
U
1.91
5.34
38.2
107
1
32.0-149
J3
94.6
28
1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
U
1.19
4.18
23.8
83.6
1
26.0-154
J6
J3
111
27
1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
5.00
U
0.925
4.07
18.5
81.4
1
28.0-153
J6
J3
126
27
Vinyl chloride
5.00
U
U
3.08
0.000
61.6
1
10.0-160
J6
J3
200
27
Xylenes, Total
15.0
U
2.51
10.4
16.7
69.3
1
29.0-154
J6
J3
122
28
1,1,2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane
5.00
U
0.385
3.80
7.70
76.0
1
23.0-160
J6
J3
163
30
Vinyl acetate
25.0
U
18.3
29.2
73.2
117
1
12.0-160
J3
45.9
31
    (S) Toluene-d8
 
 
 
 
92.2
92.6
 
80.0-120
 
 
 
 
    (S) 4-Bromofluorobenzene
 
 
 
 
89.6
92.4
 
77.0-126
 
 
 
 
    (S) 1,2-Dichloroethane-d4
 
 
 
 
110
110
 
70.0-130
 
 
 
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
21 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
21 of 26
830 of 1252

--- page 831 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640518
Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds  (GC) by Method 3511/8015
L1329291-01,02
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635355-1  03/26/21 14:34
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
U
33.0
100
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
U
33.0
100
C32-C40 Hydrocarbons
U
33.0
100
    (S) o-Terphenyl
99.5
 
 
52.0-156
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635355-2  03/26/21 14:54
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
C22-C32 Hydrocarbons
750
682
90.9
50.0-150
C12-C22 Hydrocarbons
750
751
100
50.0-150
    (S) o-Terphenyl
 
 
93.0
52.0-156
 
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
22 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
22 of 26
831 of 1252

--- page 832 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
(S)
Surrogate (Surrogate Standard) - Analytes added to every blank, sample, Laboratory Control Sample/Duplicate and 
Matrix Spike/Duplicate; used to evaluate analytical efficiency by measuring recovery. Surrogates are not expected to be 
detected in all environmental media.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J3
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J4
The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for accuracy.
J6
The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
23 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
23 of 26
832 of 1252

--- page 833 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 12:27
24 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1329291
03/29/21 13:39
24 of 26
833 of 1252

--- page 834 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
March 26, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1330357
Samples Received:
03/17/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001 TASK 2
Description:
Lane Partners, 222 E. 4th Ave
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
March 26, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd    Mount Juliet, TN 37122    615-758-5858    800-767-5859    www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
1 of 26
March 26, 2021
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
1 of 26
834 of 1252

--- page 835 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
4
  Ds: Detection Summary 
5
  Sr: Sample Results 
7
      SB-06-COMP    L1330357-01 
7
      SB-09-COMP    L1330357-02 
8
      SB-10-COMP    L1330357-03 
9
      SB-01-COMP    L1330357-04 
10
      SB-04-COMP    L1330357-05 
11
      SB-05-COMP    L1330357-06 
12
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
13
      Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011 
13
      Mercury by Method 7471A 
15
      Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B 
16
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
19
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
20
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
21
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
2 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
2 of 26
835 of 1252

--- page 836 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-06-COMP  L1330357-01  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 11:53
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:42
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-09-COMP  L1330357-02  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 11:56
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:50
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-10-COMP  L1330357-03  Solid
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1637327
1
03/20/21 15:11
03/20/21 15:34
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 11:59
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:53
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-01-COMP  L1330357-04  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 12:01
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:56
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-04-COMP  L1330357-05  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 12:11
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 15:59
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-05-COMP  L1330357-06  Solid
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
WG1636652
1
03/18/21 16:43
03/18/21 17:02
JWW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Mercury by Method 7471A
WG1640953
1
03/26/21 08:35
03/26/21 12:14
ABL
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1640232
1
03/25/21 08:27
03/25/21 16:01
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
3 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
3 of 26
836 of 1252

--- page 837 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jared Starkey
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
4 of 26
Jason Romer
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
4 of 26
837 of 1252

--- page 838 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Mercury
0.0693
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/26/2021 11:53
WG1640953
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Mercury
0.0859
0.0207
0.0460
1
03/26/2021 11:56
WG1640953
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Mercury
0.110
0.0204
0.0454
1
03/26/2021 11:59
WG1640953
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Mercury
0.0504
0.0220
0.0489
1
03/26/2021 12:01
WG1640953
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Mercury
0.0404
J
0.0219
0.0488
1
03/26/2021 12:11
WG1640953
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Mercury
0.0456
J
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/26/2021 12:14
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Barium
107
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Beryllium
0.377
0.0391
0.248
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Cadmium
0.324
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Chromium
73.7
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Cobalt
15.9
0.101
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Copper
24.5
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Lead
5.43
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Molybdenum
0.371
J
0.135
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Nickel
84.2
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Vanadium
50.5
0.628
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-06-COMP
L1330357-01
Zinc
34.5
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Arsenic
1.26
J
0.596
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Barium
135
0.0981
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Beryllium
0.600
0.0363
0.230
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Cadmium
0.491
J
0.0542
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Chromium
96.8
0.153
1.15
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Cobalt
25.8
0.0933
1.15
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Copper
37.4
0.460
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Lead
7.68
0.239
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Nickel
156
0.152
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Selenium
2.03
J
0.879
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Vanadium
61.4
0.582
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-09-COMP
L1330357-02
Zinc
44.3
0.958
5.75
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Arsenic
1.44
J
0.588
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Barium
143
0.0967
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Beryllium
0.539
0.0357
0.227
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Cadmium
0.488
J
0.0534
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Chromium
117
0.151
1.13
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Cobalt
20.5
0.0920
1.13
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Copper
45.8
0.454
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Lead
7.60
0.236
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Nickel
171
0.150
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Selenium
2.19
J
0.867
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Vanadium
70.8
0.574
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
SB-10-COMP
L1330357-03
Zinc
51.0
0.944
5.67
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
5 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
5 of 26
838 of 1252

--- page 839 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilutio
n
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Barium
131
0.104
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Beryllium
0.539
0.0385
0.245
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Cadmium
0.504
J
0.0576
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Chromium
96.6
0.163
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Cobalt
23.2
0.0991
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Copper
39.8
0.489
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Lead
6.25
0.254
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Nickel
154
0.161
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Selenium
1.49
J
0.934
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Vanadium
66.4
0.619
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-01-COMP
L1330357-04
Zinc
48.8
1.02
6.11
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Arsenic
1.44
J
0.631
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Barium
109
0.104
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Beryllium
0.417
0.0384
0.244
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Cadmium
0.398
J
0.0574
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Chromium
75.8
0.162
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Cobalt
16.8
0.0989
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Copper
26.4
0.488
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Lead
6.33
0.254
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Nickel
90.6
0.161
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Selenium
2.08
J
0.931
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Vanadium
57.8
0.617
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-04-COMP
L1330357-05
Zinc
42.8
1.01
6.10
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Arsenic
1.76
J
0.642
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Barium
135
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Beryllium
0.486
0.0391
0.248
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Cadmium
0.520
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Chromium
99.6
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Cobalt
23.7
0.101
1.24
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Copper
36.1
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Lead
7.12
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Nickel
152
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Selenium
1.65
J
0.947
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Vanadium
66.8
0.627
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
SB-05-COMP
L1330357-06
Zinc
52.6
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
6 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
6 of 26
839 of 1252

--- page 840 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1330357
SB-06-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
80.6
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0693
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/26/2021 11:53
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.675
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Arsenic
U
0.643
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Barium
107
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.377
0.0391
0.248
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.324
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Chromium
73.7
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Cobalt
15.9
0.101
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Copper
24.5
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Lead
5.43
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Molybdenum
0.371
J
0.135
0.620
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Nickel
84.2
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Selenium
U
0.948
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.158
1.24
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.489
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Vanadium
50.5
0.628
2.48
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
Zinc
34.5
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 15:42
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
7 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
7 of 26
840 of 1252

--- page 841 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1330357
SB-09-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
86.9
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0859
0.0207
0.0460
1
03/26/2021 11:56
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.626
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Arsenic
1.26
J
0.596
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Barium
135
0.0981
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.600
0.0363
0.230
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.491
J
0.0542
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Chromium
96.8
0.153
1.15
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Cobalt
25.8
0.0933
1.15
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Copper
37.4
0.460
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Lead
7.68
0.239
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.125
0.575
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Nickel
156
0.152
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Selenium
2.03
J
0.879
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.146
1.15
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.453
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Vanadium
61.4
0.582
2.30
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
Zinc
44.3
0.958
5.75
1
03/25/2021 15:50
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
8 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
8 of 26
841 of 1252

--- page 842 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1330357
SB-10-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
88.2
1
03/20/2021 15:34
WG1637327
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.110
0.0204
0.0454
1
03/26/2021 11:59
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.617
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Arsenic
1.44
J
0.588
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Barium
143
0.0967
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.539
0.0357
0.227
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.488
J
0.0534
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Chromium
117
0.151
1.13
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Cobalt
20.5
0.0920
1.13
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Copper
45.8
0.454
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Lead
7.60
0.236
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.124
0.567
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Nickel
171
0.150
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Selenium
2.19
J
0.867
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.144
1.13
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.447
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Vanadium
70.8
0.574
2.27
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
Zinc
51.0
0.944
5.67
1
03/25/2021 15:53
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
9 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
9 of 26
842 of 1252

--- page 843 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 04
L1330357
SB-01-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
81.8
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0504
0.0220
0.0489
1
03/26/2021 12:01
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.665
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Arsenic
U
0.633
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Barium
131
0.104
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.539
0.0385
0.245
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.504
J
0.0576
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Chromium
96.6
0.163
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Cobalt
23.2
0.0991
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Copper
39.8
0.489
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Lead
6.25
0.254
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.133
0.611
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Nickel
154
0.161
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Selenium
1.49
J
0.934
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.155
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.482
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Vanadium
66.4
0.619
2.45
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
Zinc
48.8
1.02
6.11
1
03/25/2021 15:56
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
10 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
10 of 26
843 of 1252

--- page 844 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 05
L1330357
SB-04-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
82.0
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0404
J
0.0219
0.0488
1
03/26/2021 12:11
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.663
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Arsenic
1.44
J
0.631
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Barium
109
0.104
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.417
0.0384
0.244
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.398
J
0.0574
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Chromium
75.8
0.162
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Cobalt
16.8
0.0989
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Copper
26.4
0.488
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Lead
6.33
0.254
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.133
0.610
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Nickel
90.6
0.161
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Selenium
2.08
J
0.931
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.155
1.22
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.480
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Vanadium
57.8
0.617
2.44
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
Zinc
42.8
1.01
6.10
1
03/25/2021 15:59
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
11 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
11 of 26
844 of 1252

--- page 845 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 06
L1330357
SB-05-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
 
Result
Qualifier
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
%
date / time
Total Solids
80.7
1
03/18/2021 17:02
WG1636652
Mercury by Method 7471A
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Mercury
0.0456
J
0.0223
0.0496
1
03/26/2021 12:14
WG1640953
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result (dry)
Qualifier
MDL (dry)
RDL (dry)
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
date / time
Antimony
U
0.674
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Arsenic
1.76
J
0.642
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Barium
135
0.106
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Beryllium
0.486
0.0391
0.248
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Cadmium
0.520
J
0.0584
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Chromium
99.6
0.165
1.24
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Cobalt
23.7
0.101
1.24
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Copper
36.1
0.496
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Lead
7.12
0.258
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Molybdenum
U
0.135
0.620
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Nickel
152
0.164
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Selenium
1.65
J
0.947
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Silver
U
0.157
1.24
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Thallium
U
0.489
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Vanadium
66.8
0.627
2.48
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
Zinc
52.6
1.03
6.20
1
03/25/2021 16:01
WG1640232
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
12 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
12 of 26
845 of 1252

--- page 846 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1636652
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1330357-04,05,06
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3632676-1  03/18/21 17:02
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.000
L1327770-13 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1327770-13  03/18/21 17:02 • (DUP) R3632676-3  03/18/21 17:02
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
87.7
88.4
1
0.819
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3632676-2  03/18/21 17:02
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
13 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
13 of 26
846 of 1252

--- page 847 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1637327
Total Solids by Method 2540 G-2011
L1330357-01,02,03
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3633181-1  03/20/21 15:34
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
%
%
%
Total Solids
0.000
L1328376-02 Original Sample (OS) • Duplicate (DUP)
(OS) L1328376-02  03/20/21 15:34 • (DUP) R3633181-3  03/20/21 15:34
 
Original Result
DUP Result
Dilution
DUP RPD
DUP Qualifier
DUP RPD 
Limits
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
85.0
86.1
1
1.20
10
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3633181-2  03/20/21 15:34
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
%
%
%
%
Total Solids
50.0
50.0
100
85.0-115
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
14 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
14 of 26
847 of 1252

--- page 848 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640953
Mercury by Method 7471A
L1330357-01,02,03,04,05,06
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635165-1  03/26/21 11:25
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Mercury
U
0.0180
0.0400
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635165-2  03/26/21 11:28
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Mercury
0.500
0.506
101
80.0-120
L1329260-20 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1329260-20  03/26/21 11:30 • (MS) R3635165-3  03/26/21 11:38 • (MSD) R3635165-4  03/26/21 11:41
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Mercury
0.500
0.0416
0.523
0.530
96.4
97.8
1
75.0-125
1.32
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
15 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
15 of 26
848 of 1252

--- page 849 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1330357-01,02,03,04,05,06
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3634945-1  03/25/21 14:46
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Antimony
U
0.544
2.00
Arsenic
U
0.518
2.00
Barium
U
0.0852
0.500
Beryllium
U
0.0315
0.200
Cadmium
U
0.0471
0.500
Chromium
U
0.133
1.00
Cobalt
U
0.0811
1.00
Copper
U
0.400
2.00
Lead
U
0.208
0.500
Molybdenum
U
0.109
0.500
Nickel
U
0.132
2.00
Selenium
U
0.764
2.00
Silver
U
0.127
1.00
Thallium
U
0.394
2.00
Vanadium
U
0.506
2.00
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3635005-1  03/25/21 22:18
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
Zinc
U
0.832
5.00
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634945-2  03/25/21 14:49
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Antimony
100
97.6
97.6
80.0-120
Arsenic
100
96.8
96.8
80.0-120
Barium
100
103
103
80.0-120
Beryllium
100
97.5
97.5
80.0-120
Cadmium
100
97.7
97.7
80.0-120
Chromium
100
98.2
98.2
80.0-120
Cobalt
100
101
101
80.0-120
Copper
100
97.4
97.4
80.0-120
Lead
100
97.4
97.4
80.0-120
Molybdenum
100
103
103
80.0-120
Nickel
100
100
100
80.0-120
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
16 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
16 of 26
849 of 1252

--- page 850 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1330357-01,02,03,04,05,06
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3634945-2  03/25/21 14:49
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Selenium
100
99.9
99.9
80.0-120
Silver
20.0
18.9
94.5
80.0-120
Thallium
100
98.2
98.2
80.0-120
Vanadium
100
101
101
80.0-120
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3635005-2  03/25/21 22:20
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
Zinc
100
97.3
97.3
80.0-120
L1328977-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328977-01  03/25/21 14:52 • (MS) R3634945-5  03/25/21 15:00 • (MSD) R3634945-6  03/25/21 15:02
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Antimony
114
U
89.6
94.3
78.8
83.0
1
75.0-125
5.20
20
Arsenic
114
2.28
96.5
103
82.9
88.3
1
75.0-125
6.13
20
Barium
114
108
199
199
80.2
80.2
1
75.0-125
0.0118
20
Beryllium
114
0.391
99.7
104
87.4
91.6
1
75.0-125
4.68
20
Cadmium
114
0.478
102
107
89.5
93.3
1
75.0-125
4.17
20
Chromium
114
93.5
178
182
74.0
77.9
1
75.0-125
J6
2.45
20
Cobalt
114
21.3
130
137
96.1
102
1
75.0-125
5.10
20
Copper
114
35.1
128
135
82.1
87.9
1
75.0-125
5.00
20
Lead
114
5.77
113
118
93.9
98.6
1
75.0-125
4.64
20
Molybdenum
114
U
100
105
88.1
92.4
1
75.0-125
4.73
20
Nickel
114
125
204
226
69.2
88.5
1
75.0-125
J6
10.2
20
Selenium
114
1.65
96.2
103
83.2
89.3
1
75.0-125
6.92
20
Silver
22.7
U
20.0
20.8
88.0
91.4
1
75.0-125
3.79
20
Thallium
114
U
104
108
91.1
94.8
1
75.0-125
3.91
20
Vanadium
114
72.7
150
161
67.6
77.4
1
75.0-125
J6
7.21
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
17 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
17 of 26
850 of 1252

--- page 851 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1640232
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1330357-01,02,03,04,05,06
L1328977-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1328977-01  03/25/21 22:23 • (MS) R3635005-5  03/25/21 22:31 • (MSD) R3635005-6  03/25/21 22:34
 
Spike Amount 
(dry)
Original Result 
(dry)
MS Result (dry) MSD Result 
(dry)
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
mg/kg
%
%
%
%
%
Zinc
114
51.6
142
146
79.4
83.1
1
75.0-125
2.90
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
18 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
18 of 26
851 of 1252

--- page 852 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
(dry)
Results are reported based on the dry weight of the sample. [this will only be present on a dry report basis for soils].
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
MDL (dry)
Method Detection Limit.
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
RDL (dry)
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
J6
The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
19 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
19 of 26
852 of 1252

--- page 853 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 13:10
20 of 26
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001 TASK 2
L1330357
03/26/21 14:34
20 of 26
853 of 1252

--- page 854 ---
ANALYTICAL REPORT
May 13, 2021
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
Sample Delivery Group:
L1345033
Samples Received:
03/17/2021
Project Number:
01-LP-001
Description:
Lane Partners,222 E 4th St
Report To:
Erin Male
1371 Oakland Blvd.
Suite 200
Walnut Creek, CA  94596
Entire Report Reviewed By:
May 13, 2021
[Preliminary Report]
Jordan N Zito
Project Manager
Results relate only to the items tested or calibrated and are reported as rounded values. This test report shall not be 
reproduced, except in full, without written approval of the laboratory. Where applicable, sampling conducted by Pace 
Analytical National is performed per guidance provided in laboratory standard operating procedures ENV-SOP-MTJL-0067 and 
ENV-SOP-MTJL-0068. Where sampling conducted by the customer, results relate to the accuracy of the information provided, 
and as the samples are received.
Pace Analytical National
12065 Lebanon Rd  Mount Juliet, TN 37122  615-758-5858  800-767-5859  www.pacenational.com
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
1 of 33
May 14, 2021
Jordan N Zito
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
1 of 33
854 of 1252

--- page 855 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  Cp: Cover Page 
1
  Tc: Table of Contents 
2
  Ss: Sample Summary 
3
  Cn: Case Narrative 
5
  Ds: Detection Summary 
6
  Sr: Sample Results 
7
      SB-08-COMP    L1345033-01 
7
      SB-03-COMP    L1345033-02 
8
      SB-02-COMP    L1345033-03 
9
      SB-07-COMP    L1345033-04 
10
      SB-11-COMP    L1345033-05 
11
      SB-06-COMP    L1345033-06 
12
      SB-09-COMP    L1345033-07 
13
      SB-01-COMP    L1345033-08 
14
      SB-04-COMP    L1345033-09 
15
      SB-05-COMP    L1345033-10 
16
      SB-10-COMP    L1345033-11 
17
  Qc: Quality Control Summary 
18
      Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B 
18
  Gl: Glossary of Terms 
21
  Al: Accreditations & Locations 
22
  Sc: Sample Chain of Custody 
23
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
2 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
2 of 33
855 of 1252

--- page 856 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-08-COMP  L1345033-01  GW
Erin Male
03/18/21 00:00
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:26
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-03-COMP  L1345033-02  GW
Erin Male
03/18/21 00:00
03/20/21 10:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:29
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-02-COMP  L1345033-03  GW
Erin Male
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1667437
1
05/10/21 15:44
05/10/21 15:44
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1669651
9
05/13/21 05:57
05/13/21 11:17
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-07-COMP  L1345033-04  GW
Erin Male
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1667437
1
05/10/21 15:44
05/10/21 15:44
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1669651
9
05/13/21 05:57
05/13/21 11:28
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-11-COMP  L1345033-05  GW
Erin Male
03/17/21 00:00
03/19/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1667437
1
05/10/21 15:44
05/10/21 15:44
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1669651
9
05/13/21 05:57
05/13/21 11:31
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-06-COMP  L1345033-06  GW
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:32
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-09-COMP  L1345033-07  GW
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:35
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
3 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
3 of 33
856 of 1252

--- page 857 ---
SAMPLE SUMMARY
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-01-COMP  L1345033-08  GW
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:43
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-04-COMP  L1345033-09  GW
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:46
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-05-COMP  L1345033-10  GW
Erin Male
03/15/21 00:00
03/17/21 11:00
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 22CCRA2
WG1662596
1
05/01/21 17:52
05/01/21 17:52
IDW
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1663979
9
05/07/21 21:28
05/08/21 02:48
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
Collected by
Collected date/time
Received date/time
SB-10-COMP  L1345033-11  Waste
Erin Male
03/16/21 00:00
03/18/21 12:30
Method
Batch
Dilution
Preparation
Analysis
Analyst
Location
date/time
date/time
 
Preparation by Method 1311
WG1669011
1
05/12/21 16:58
05/12/21 16:58
TM
Mt. Juliet, TN
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
WG1669902
1
05/13/21 11:10
05/13/21 15:01
KMG
Mt. Juliet, TN
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
4 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
4 of 33
857 of 1252

--- page 858 ---
CASE NARRATIVE
All sample aliquots were received at the correct temperature, in the proper containers, with the 
appropriate preservatives, and within method specified holding times, unless qualified or notated within
the report.  Where applicable, all MDL (LOD) and RDL (LOQ) values reported for environmental samples
have been corrected for the dilution factor used in the analysis.  All Method and Batch Quality Control 
are within established criteria except where addressed in this case narrative, a non-conformance form 
or properly qualified within the sample results. By my digital signature below, I affirm to the best of my 
knowledge, all problems/anomalies observed by the laboratory as having the potential to affect the 
quality of the data have been identified by the laboratory, and no information or data have been 
knowingly withheld that would affect the quality of the data.
[Preliminary Report]
Jordan N Zito
Project Manager
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
5 of 33
Jordan N Zito
Project Manager
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
5 of 33
858 of 1252

--- page 859 ---
DETECTION SUMMARY
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Client ID
Lab Sample ID
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
SB-08-COMP
L1345033-01
Chromium
143
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:26
WG1663979
SB-03-COMP
L1345033-02
Chromium
245
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:29
WG1663979
SB-02-COMP
L1345033-03
Chromium
190
O1
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:17
WG1669651
SB-07-COMP
L1345033-04
Chromium
266
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:28
WG1669651
SB-11-COMP
L1345033-05
Chromium
615
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:31
WG1669651
SB-06-COMP
L1345033-06
Chromium
345
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:32
WG1663979
SB-09-COMP
L1345033-07
Chromium
85.8
J
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:35
WG1663979
SB-01-COMP
L1345033-08
Chromium
137
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:43
WG1663979
SB-04-COMP
L1345033-09
Chromium
166
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:46
WG1663979
SB-05-COMP
L1345033-10
Chromium
289
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:48
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
6 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
6 of 33
859 of 1252

--- page 860 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 01
L1345033
SB-08-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.33
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
143
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:26
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
7 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
7 of 33
860 of 1252

--- page 861 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 02
L1345033
SB-03-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/18/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.32
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
245
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:29
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
8 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
8 of 33
861 of 1252

--- page 862 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 03
L1345033
SB-02-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Final pH
4.99
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
190
O1
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:17
WG1669651
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
9 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
9 of 33
862 of 1252

--- page 863 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 04
L1345033
SB-07-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Final pH
5.06
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
266
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:28
WG1669651
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
10 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
10 of 33
863 of 1252

--- page 864 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 05
L1345033
SB-11-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/17/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Final pH
4.98
5/10/2021 3:44:25 PM
WG1667437
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
615
12.6
90.0
9
05/13/2021 11:31
WG1669651
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
11 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
11 of 33
864 of 1252

--- page 865 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 06
L1345033
SB-06-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.29
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
345
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:32
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
12 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
12 of 33
865 of 1252

--- page 866 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 07
L1345033
SB-09-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.20
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
85.8
J
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:35
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
13 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
13 of 33
866 of 1252

--- page 867 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 08
L1345033
SB-01-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.17
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
137
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:43
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
14 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
14 of 33
867 of 1252

--- page 868 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 09
L1345033
SB-04-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.26
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
166
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:46
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
15 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
15 of 33
868 of 1252

--- page 869 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 10
L1345033
SB-05-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/15/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
STLC Extraction
-
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Final pH
5.15
5/1/2021 5:52:53 PM
WG1662596
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
MDL
RDL
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
date / time
Chromium
289
12.6
90.0
9
05/08/2021 02:48
WG1663979
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
16 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
16 of 33
869 of 1252

--- page 870 ---
SAMPLE RESULTS - 11
L1345033
SB-10-COMP
Collected date/time:  03/16/21 00:00
Preparation by Method 1311/22CCRA2
 
Result
Qualifier
Prep
Batch
Analyte
date / time
TCLP Extraction
-
5/12/2021 4:58:12 PM
WG1669011
Fluid
1
5/12/2021 4:58:12 PM
WG1669011
Initial pH
4.86
5/12/2021 4:58:12 PM
WG1669011
Final pH
4.92
5/12/2021 4:58:12 PM
WG1669011
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
 
Result
Qualifier
RDL
Limit
Dilution
Analysis
Batch
Analyte
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
date / time
Chromium
ND
0.100
5
1
05/13/2021 15:01
WG1669902
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
17 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
17 of 33
870 of 1252

--- page 871 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1663979
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1345033-01,02,06,07,08,09,10
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3651956-1  05/08/21 02:10
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Chromium
U
12.6
90.0
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3651956-2  05/08/21 02:13
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Chromium
1000
1050
105
80.0-120
L1346978-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1346978-01  05/08/21 02:15 • (MS) R3651956-4  05/08/21 02:21 • (MSD) R3651956-5  05/08/21 02:24
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
%
%
%
Chromium
9000
112
9480
9510
104
104
9
75.0-125
0.410
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
18 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
18 of 33
871 of 1252

--- page 872 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1669651
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1345033-03,04,05
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3654175-1  05/13/21 11:11
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
Chromium
U
12.6
90.0
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3654175-2  05/13/21 11:14
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
Chromium
1000
1010
101
80.0-120
L1345033-03 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1345033-03  05/13/21 11:17 • (MS) R3654175-4  05/13/21 11:22 • (MSD) R3654175-5  05/13/21 11:25
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
ug/l
%
%
%
%
%
Chromium
9000
190
9200
9320
100
101
9
75.0-125
1.26
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
19 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
19 of 33
872 of 1252

--- page 873 ---
QUALITY CONTROL SUMMARY
WG1669902
Metals (ICP) by Method 6010B
L1345033-11
Method Blank (MB)
(MB) R3654178-1  05/13/21 14:37
 
MB Result
MB Qualifier
MB MDL
MB RDL
Analyte
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
Chromium
U
0.0330
0.100
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS)
(LCS) R3654178-2  05/13/21 14:39
 
Spike Amount
LCS Result
LCS Rec.
Rec. Limits
LCS Qualifier
Analyte
mg/l
mg/l
%
%
Chromium
10.0
9.29
92.9
80.0-120
L1347124-01 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1347124-01  05/13/21 14:42 • (MS) R3654178-4  05/13/21 14:47 • (MSD) R3654178-5  05/13/21 14:50
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
%
%
%
%
%
Chromium
10.0
ND
9.41
9.46
94.1
94.6
1
75.0-125
0.589
20
L1349291-02 Original Sample (OS) • Matrix Spike (MS) • Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD)
(OS) L1349291-02  05/13/21 14:53 • (MS) R3654178-6  05/13/21 14:55 • (MSD) R3654178-7  05/13/21 14:58
 
Spike Amount
Original Result
MS Result
MSD Result
MS Rec.
MSD Rec.
Dilution
Rec. Limits
MS Qualifier
MSD Qualifier
RPD
RPD Limits
Analyte
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
mg/l
%
%
%
%
%
Chromium
10.0
ND
9.49
9.42
94.9
94.2
1
75.0-125
0.711
20
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
20 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
20 of 33
873 of 1252

--- page 874 ---
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Guide to Reading and Understanding Your Laboratory Report
The information below is designed to better explain the various terms used in your report of analytical results from the Laboratory.  This is not 
intended as a comprehensive explanation, and if you have additional questions please contact your project representative.
Results Disclaimer - Information that may be provided by the customer, and contained within this report, include Permit Limits, Project Name, 
Sample ID, Sample Matrix, Sample Preservation, Field Blanks, Field Spikes, Field Duplicates, On-Site Data, Sampling Collection Dates/Times, and 
Sampling Location. Results relate to the accuracy of this information provided, and as the samples are received.
Abbreviations and Definitions
MDL
Method Detection Limit.
ND
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
RDL
Reported Detection Limit.
Rec.
Recovery.
RPD
Relative Percent Difference.
SDG
Sample Delivery Group.
U
Not detected at the Reporting Limit (or MDL where applicable).
Analyte
The name of the particular compound or analysis performed. Some Analyses and Methods will have multiple analytes 
reported.
Dilution
If the sample matrix contains an interfering material, the sample preparation volume or weight values differ from the 
standard, or if concentrations of analytes in the sample are higher than the highest limit of concentration that the 
laboratory can accurately report, the sample may be diluted for analysis. If a value different than 1 is used in this field, the 
result reported has already been corrected for this factor.
Limits
These are the target % recovery ranges or % difference value that the laboratory has historically determined as normal 
for the method and analyte being reported. Successful QC Sample analysis will target all analytes recovered or 
duplicated within these ranges.
Original Sample
The non-spiked sample in the prep batch used to determine the Relative Percent Difference (RPD) from a quality control 
sample. The Original Sample may not be included within the reported SDG.
Qualifier
This column provides a letter and/or number designation that corresponds to additional information concerning the result
reported. If a Qualifier is present, a definition per Qualifier is provided within the Glossary and Definitions page and 
potentially a discussion of possible implications of the Qualifier in the Case Narrative if applicable.
Result
The actual analytical final result (corrected for any sample specific characteristics) reported for your sample. If there was 
no measurable result returned for a specific analyte, the result in this column may state “ND” (Not Detected) or “BDL” 
(Below Detectable Levels). The information in the results column should always be accompanied by either an MDL 
(Method Detection Limit) or RDL (Reporting Detection Limit) that defines the lowest value that the laboratory could detect 
or report for this analyte.
Uncertainty 
(Radiochemistry)
Confidence level of 2 sigma.
Case Narrative (Cn)
A brief discussion about the included sample results, including a discussion of any non-conformances to protocol 
observed either at sample receipt by the laboratory from the field or during the analytical process. If present, there will 
be a section in the Case Narrative to discuss the meaning of any data qualifiers used in the report.
Quality Control 
Summary (Qc)
This section of the report includes the results of the laboratory quality control analyses required by procedure or 
analytical methods to assist in evaluating the validity of the results reported for your samples. These analyses are not 
being performed on your samples typically, but on laboratory generated material.
Sample Chain of 
Custody (Sc)
This is the document created in the field when your samples were initially collected. This is used to verify the time and 
date of collection, the person collecting the samples, and the analyses that the laboratory is requested to perform. This 
chain of custody also documents all persons (excluding commercial shippers) that have had control or possession of the 
samples from the time of collection until delivery to the laboratory for analysis.
Sample Results (Sr)
This section of your report will provide the results of all testing performed on your samples. These results are provided 
by sample ID and are separated by the analyses performed on each sample. The header line of each analysis section for
each sample will provide the name and method number for the analysis reported.
Sample Summary (Ss)
This section of the Analytical Report defines the specific analyses performed for each sample ID, including the dates and
times of preparation and/or analysis.
Qualifier
Description
J
The identification of the analyte is acceptable; the reported value is an estimate.
O1
The analyte failed the method required serial dilution test and/or subsequent post-spike criteria.  These failures indicate 
matrix interference.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
21 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
21 of 33
874 of 1252

--- page 875 ---
Pace Analytical National    12065 Lebanon Rd Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Alabama
40660
 
Nebraska
NE-OS-15-05
Alaska
17-026
 
Nevada
TN000032021-1
Arizona
AZ0612
 
New Hampshire
2975
Arkansas
88-0469
 
New Jersey–NELAP
TN002
California
2932
 
New Mexico ¹
TN00003
Colorado
TN00003
 
New York
11742
Connecticut
PH-0197
 
North Carolina
Env375
Florida
E87487
 
North Carolina ¹
DW21704
Georgia
NELAP
 
North Carolina ³
41
Georgia ¹
923
 
North Dakota
R-140
Idaho
TN00003
 
Ohio–VAP
CL0069
Illinois
200008
 
Oklahoma
9915
Indiana
C-TN-01
 
Oregon
TN200002
Iowa
364
 
Pennsylvania
68-02979
Kansas
E-10277
 
Rhode Island
LAO00356
Kentucky ¹ ⁶
KY90010
 
South Carolina
84004002
Kentucky ²
16
 
South Dakota
n/a
Louisiana
AI30792
 
Tennessee ¹ ⁴
2006
Louisiana
LA018
 
Texas
T104704245-20-18
Maine
TN00003
 
Texas ⁵
LAB0152
Maryland
324
 
Utah
TN000032021-11
Massachusetts
M-TN003
 
Vermont
VT2006
Michigan
9958
 
Virginia
110033
Minnesota
047-999-395
 
Washington
C847
Mississippi
TN00003
 
West Virginia
233
Missouri
340
 
Wisconsin
998093910
Montana
CERT0086
 
Wyoming
A2LA
A2LA – ISO 17025
1461.01
 
AIHA-LAP,LLC EMLAP
100789
A2LA – ISO 17025 ⁵
1461.02
 
DOD
1461.01
Canada
1461.01
 
USDA
P330-15-00234
EPA–Crypto
TN00003
 
 
 
ACCREDITATIONS & LOCATIONS
 
¹ Drinking Water   ² Underground Storage Tanks   ³ Aquatic Toxicity   ⁴ Chemical/Microbiological   ⁵ Mold   ⁶ Wastewater      n/a Accreditation not applicable
* Not all certifications held by the laboratory are applicable to the results reported in the attached report. 
* Accreditation is only applicable to the test methods specified on each scope of accreditation held by Pace Analytical.
1 Cp
2Tc
3Ss
4Cn
5Ds
6Sr
7Qc
8Gl
9Al
10Sc
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/13/21 17:19
22 of 33
ACCOUNT:
PROJECT:
SDG:
DATE/TIME:
PAGE:
RMD Environmental - Walnut Creek, CA
01-LP-001
L1345033
05/14/21 08:35
22 of 33
875 of 1252

--- page 876 ---
Company
R

Seo D0) EAM Aue
Cent Predect

Phone: 925-683-8177

SG-08-95.¢ =o

* Matrix:

Gu toate ‘3, | See Cah.»

OT - Other

CAVA Wak
wegied by : (Signature)

See Date
AG

. , Ace Na
Se Thee N

876 of 1252


--- page 877 ---
Chain of Custody Page DS of 7

| ‘Naticrat Contee tee 8 prcveten
|

Eats feo :

y: AY .

hes: Sse
50-03 - CoH a

KE

| een

in
Ne
hi

x 4

Ta) S00

een

Tob Ee
‘ieso | 77 Sey
ie A

877 of 1252


--- page 878 ---
SO)
hin

a
:

Peat.

878 of 1252


--- page 879 ---
ys ra ‘ ‘if i
ae arson 2 lls Nis a

he
ge

879 of 1252


--- page 880 ---
880 of 1252

AoC eRRO SRE |

i



--- page 881 ---
x

re , “weKT
: 4
ae
: Ci
a” eee A,
im ‘a &
7
oj -

ie
i =

ee BaF

oT ht SA
%
4 5
2 , .
: ~ ;
ra ’
a =) .
. 4
J -
ae 7
he 8
i i
es
“SES -

o
ny

¢ 4
a me
Fr,

————e

raw

il Bio [35 |S pace Wa
y- ME,



--- page 882 ---
suite 200

1371 Oakland Bivd

= a ? bit : fr “t OR =
hd ee i é rad as :
‘ ‘ war” ade oe : Se
3? ~ »y - A
= | M4 4 f » ‘
| H ) ; .

ee ee ee

SRB hee Gc tc
Wc) abe TST ANAL NRE WR

:

-\Q'

OD
‘
’

-> S'

= 04-5 S'o

SB7O4

“HA -GS
SB-O4 - (1.5 +12!

a

a”

882 of 1252


--- page 883 ---
Pag
i”

|
ffs
ii.
a8
| 1S



--- page 884 ---
Hg

aleeeiaeiiiacediicaa

884 of 1252


--- page 885 ---
885 of 1252


--- page 886 ---
1371 OAKLAND BOULEVARD, SUITE 200 – WALNUT CREEK, CA 
October 14, 2022 
Mr. Marcus Gilmore 
Lane Partners  
644 Menlo Avenue, 2nd Floor 
Menlo Park, California 94025 
Subject:  
Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report Conclusions and  
Responses to City of San Mateo Questions 
222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California (the “Subject Site”) 
Dear Mr. Gilmore: 
As requested, RMD Environmental Solutions, Inc. (RMD) has prepared this letter to address 
questions regarding The City of San Mateo’s (the City’s) hazardous materials analysis in 
consideration of our Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report dated July 7, 2021 (Report), 
associated with the Subject Site.   
Questions provided by the City via e-mail dated October 13, 2022, are listed below in blue 
italicized text.  RMD’s response follows each point in black font. 
1. The site is on the Cortese list as “completed, case closed”.  Does the Phase II indicate
site conditions continue to warrant inclusion on the Cortese list, or can the listing be
considered ‘historic’?   The Cortese database includes sites with underground storage
tanks (USTs) having a reportable release.  The Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
(Phase I ESA) prepared for the Subject Site (Geosyntec, May 2, 2019 ) documented that
USTs and hydraulic lifts associated with two former gasoline service stations at the Site
were removed during the 1980s and 1990s.   The regulatory closure letter issued by San
Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS, March 12, 1997) shows that the
Subject Site investigation into impacted soils from historical operations at the Subject
Site was considered complete and that no further investigation and/or remediation was
required. Accordingly, under the applicable Phase I ESA standard (ASTM E1527-13),
Geosyntec concluded that these past operations represent a historical recognized
environmental condition (HREC) – as opposed to a current or ongoing recognized
environmental condition (REC) under ASTM E1527-13.  RMD’s 2021 investigation
886 of 1252

--- page 887 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
October 14, 2022 
Page 2 of 5 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
indicated no new or additional information that would indicate further governmental 
oversight was necessary.  Accordingly, the listing should be considered historical, 
because there are no continuing or ongoing concerns in regard to the issues that gave 
rise to the initial Cortese listing, and because written regulatory closure was issued in 
regard to the environmental condition of the Subject Site.      
2. Do site soil and groundwater conditions pose a risk to human health and the environment,
including construction workers and nearby residences, from proposed construction
activity that would excavate to a depth of 25 below grade and off-haul 25,828 CY of soil?
Based on RMD’s 2021 subsurface investigation data, soil and groundwater do not pose
a significant risk to human health and the environment in relation to proposed
construction activities, including with respect to construction workers and in regard to
nearby residential use.  In RMD’s July 2021 report, soil and groundwater data collected
were compared to San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (SFBRWQCB)
Tier 1 Environmental Screening Levels (ESLs).  Tier 1 ESLs are the most conservative
screening levels considering all exposure pathways and exposure point scenarios, which
include construction workers and residential receptors.    Evaluation of soil and
groundwater data against screening levels is summarized as follows:
Soil:  As documented in the Report, Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons in the gasoline range
(TPHg) and in the diesel range (TPHd), along with volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
and metals were reported at concentrations in soil at levels that were all below Tier 1
ESLs or naturally-occurring regional background levels1.   Furthermore, none of the
reported concentrations exceeded threshold concentrations that would indicate the soil
would be classified as a hazardous waste, including for purposes of off-site disposal.
In conclusion, soil conditions at the Subject Site do not pose a significant risk to human
health or to the environment.  That being said, a Construction Site Management Plan
(SMP) will be prepared for the Subject Site that will include contingency measures and
protocol in the event that a localized area of contamination or subsurface feature is
unearthed during excavation activities.   Further details are described below in Item 3.
1 Arsenic and vanadium were reported above Tier 1 ESLs however were less than the concentration of 
naturally occurring levels in bay area soil.  Because soil throughout the State of California has naturally-
occurring metals levels above these ESLs, governmental agencies in California use the naturally-occurring 
regional background levels – as opposed to the ESLs – as the applicable standard for these metals. 
887 of 1252

--- page 888 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
October 14, 2022 
Page 3 of 5 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
Groundwater:   As documented in the Report, total petroleum hydrocarbons as diesel 
(TPHd) and chloroform were the only two constituents with concentrations reported 
above Tier 1 ESLs.   
•
Chloroform:  The maximum concentration of chloroform reported is 3.67 µg/L
compared to the Tier 1 ESL of 0.81 µg/L.  The Tier 1 ESL is based on a
groundwater concentration that is protective of the vapor intrusion into indoor air
exposure pathway.  This exposure pathway is not a complete exposure pathway
for the construction workers that will be performing work outdoors or nearby
residents that are located off-site.  Although there is a potential for VOCs (which
includes chloroform) to volatilize into outdoor air during construction activities,
inhalation of VOCs in outdoor air is considered negligible for on-site and off-site
receptors due to complete and virtually immediate dispersion in ambient air.
The low-level chloroform concentration is likely attributed to potable water (as a 
result of chlorination of organic matter present in raw water supplies).  The 
maximum concentration of chloroform reported in groundwater is well below the 
maximum contaminant level (MCL) of 80 µg/L.  Considering that groundwater will 
not be used for potable water purposes, the maximum concentration of 
chloroform is well below the ESLs based on gross contamination and odor 
nuisance levels for non-drinking water of 50,000 µg/L and 24,000 µg/L, 
respectively.  Table 1 provides values of ESLs for chloroform for non-drinking 
water exposure.   
•
TPHd: The maximum concentration of TPHd reported is 353 µg/L compared to
the Tier 1 ESL of 100 µg/L.  The Tier 1 ESL is based on odor nuisance levels for
drinking water, and this standard is not relevant for project construction or
operation because the groundwater will not be used for potable water purposes.
Table 1 provides values of ESLs for TPHd for non-drinking water exposure.  As
shown, the lowest ESL is 2,500 µg/L which is based on SFBRWQCB’s gross
contamination non-drinking water screening level for TPHd.  The reported value
of 353 µg/L beneath the Site is an order of magnitude below the ESL and not
considered a significant risk.
In conclusion, groundwater conditions do not represent a concern or pose any significant 
risk to human health or the environment.   
888 of 1252

--- page 889 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
October 14, 2022 
Page 4 of 5 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
3. Is regulatory oversight of construction activity required and what measures, if any, are
needed during construction to protect workers and nearby residents from exposure to
any site contamination likely to be released during construction?
As confirmed by Mr. Jacob Madden of San Mateo County Groundwater Protection
Program, the Subject Site is not a significant concern with regard to residual
contamination.  However, the County may require a Construction Soil Management Plan
(SMP), as yet to be discussed and determined during the County’s review of the project.
The SMP would be used as a guidance document for handling impacted soil and
groundwater, if encountered, during construction activities.  Under the SMP, notification
to San Mateo County will be required in the event that an unanticipated condition is
encountered during site grading (e.g., a localized area of contamination or an
underground structure).
The SMP would identify required soil and groundwater management measures typical of
construction projects throughout this County and the State of California.  These would
include standard dust control measures (e.g., keeping soil moist during excavation and
loading) and compliance with the City of San Mateo’s municipal stormwater permit and
related discharge permits during dewatering activities.  The need for groundwater
treatment prior to discharge will be determined during the required Application for
Groundwater Waste Discharge Permit through the City of San Mateo Public Works
Department.
The requirements that will be specified in the SMP are standard practice for the
construction industry.  No augmented mitigation measures beyond standard construction
standards and permit requirements are needed based on known conditions to in order
protect construction workers or the residents during project construction.
889 of 1252

--- page 890 ---
Mr. Gilmore 
October 14, 2022 
Page 5 of 5 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
No further site characterization or testing is recommended by RMD prior to construction for 
planning purposes.  If you have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact 
Ms. Kirsten Duey at (925) 683-8177 or kduey@rmdes.net. 
Sincerely, 
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 
Kirsten Duey 
Principal Engineer 
. 
890 of 1252

--- page 891 ---
Table 1
Summary of Grab Groundwater Analytical Results - TPH and Detected VOCs
222 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, California
Page 1 of 1
RMD ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC.
Boring ID
TPHg
TPHd Note 2
TPHmo Note 3
Benzene
Chloroform
(feet bgs)
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
(µg/L) 
--
--
--
0.42
0.81
5,000
5,000
--
20,000
24,000
50,000
2,500
--
50,000
50,000
SB-02
22 - 32
3/18/2021
ND<100
ND<100
245.2 J
0.111 J J3 J6
3.67 J3 J6
SB-11
33 - 43
3/18/2021
ND<100
353
367
ND<0.500
0.571
Notes:
NDW = Non-drinking water.
1  Values represent the California Regional Water Quality Control Board-San Francisco Bay Region Environmental Screening Levels (ESLs; SFBRWQCB, 2019).
Note 2 TPHd data shown represents laboratory results for carbon range C12-C22 hydrocarbons.
Note 3 TPHmo data shown represents laboratory results for carbon range C22-C40 hydrocarbons.
SFBRWQCB ESL = San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board
VOCs = Volatile Organic Compounds.
TPHg = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as gasoline.
TPHd = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as diesel.
TPHmo = Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons as motor oil.
µg/L = Micrograms per liter.
ND<0.500 = Not detected above noted laboratory reporting limit.
"--" = No Value Established. 
J = Estimated value.
J3 = The associated batch QC was outside the established quality control range for precision.
J6 = The sample matrix interfered with the ability to make any accurate determination; spike value is low.
Boring ID
Date Sampled
Residential Groundwater SL - Vapor Intrusion 1
Groundwater SL - Odor Nuisance NDW 1
Gross Contamination SL 1
891 of 1252

--- page 892 ---
Date: October 20, 2022 
 
Project No.: 118-141-1 
  
Prepared For: Mr. Connor Tutino 
DAVID J. POWERS & ASSOCIATES 
1736 Franklin Street, Suite 400 
Oakland, California  94612 
  
Re: Environmental Document Review  
200-222 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
Dear Mr. Tutino: 
 
Per your request, Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. (Cornerstone) is pleased to present this letter 
summarizing our review of the provided environmental reports for 200-222 East 4th Avenue in 
San Mateo, California (Site).  This letter was prepared for David J. Powers & Associates 
(Powers) in accordance with our October 19, 2022 agreement (Agreement).   
 
Project Background 
 
 
We understand that Powers is providing California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) support 
associated with the planned redevelopment of the Site.  The approximately 1.1-acre Site 
consists of Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) 034-176-090, 034-176-080, 034-176-070, and 
034-176-050 and currently is developed with an approximately 65,608 square-foot building (two 
stories with a mezzanine – first floor approximately 35,400 square feet) with one level of below 
grade parking (approximately 47,365 square feet).   
 
Redevelopment plans reportedly consist of demolition of the existing structure and construction of a 
five-story, mixed use (office, residential and retail) building with two levels of below-grade parking.    
 
Documents Reviewed 
 
 
This letter briefly summarizes selected information obtained from the following reports: 
 
 
Geosyntec Consultants.  May 2, 2019.  Draft Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, 200-
222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
RMD Environmental Solution.  July 7, 2021.  Pre-Construction Site Investigation Report, 222 
East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California. 
 
 
RMD Environmental Solution.  October 11, 2022a.  Pre-Construction Site Investigation 
Report Conclusions, Further Clarification, 222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, California. 
 
 
RMD Environmental Solution.  October 14, 2022b.  Pre-Construction Site Investigation 
Report Conclusions and Responses to City of San Mateo Questions, 222 East 4th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California. 
 
892 of 1252

--- page 893 ---
118-141-1 
 
200-222 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
Page  2 
 
 
Erler & Kalinowski, Inc. (EKI).  June 27, 1996.  Closure Report for Property Located at 200 
East Fourth Avenue, San Mateo, California. 
 
 
County of San Mateo, Environmental Health Services Division.  March 12, 1997.  Case 
Closure of Non-LUFT/Surface Soils Site located at 200 E. 4th Street, San Mateo, California. 
 
For complete details, please refer directly to the original reports. 
 
Site History and Prior Studies 
 
Based on the information reviewed, the Site was developed by the late 1800s with several 
residences and associated outbuildings.  By 1927, a gasoline service station was present on the 
north corner of the Site (East 4th Avenue and South B Street).  By 1950, two auto repair/gasoline 
service stations were present on-Site, one on the north corner and one on the east corner (South 
B Street and East 5th Avenue).  The Levy Brothers leased the Site in 1951, built a department 
store on the western portion of the Site, and operated the business until 1985.  By 1969, the 
service station on the east corner of the Site was replaced by a parking lot.  By 1985, the service 
station in the north corner of the Site was replaced by a paved parking lot.  The existing building 
was completed in 1997 and has since been occupied by a grocery store and restaurant.   
 
Underground storage tanks (USTs) associated with the former gasoline service station at the 
north corner of the Site were removed in 1988.  Soil sampling was conducted and approximately 
335 tons of soil associated with UST removal activities were reported as “excavated”.  
 
In 1993, one hydraulic lift associated with the former gasoline service station at the east corner 
of the Site was removed.  Petroleum hydrocarbons were detected in soil and approximately 20 
cubic yards of soil were reported as “removed”.   
 
Soil and groundwater quality studies subsequently were performed at the Site in 1994 by 
Environmental Geotechnical Consultants (EGC) and in 1995 by EKI.  In general, neither of 
these studies identified significant impacts to soil or groundwater at the Site.  The study by EKI 
included the collection of soil samples from 17 borings and the collection of groundwater 
samples from eight borings.  Low concentrations of total petroleum hydrocarbons as diesel 
(TPHd) were detected in a few of the soil and groundwater samples; none of the detected 
concentrations exceed the current Tier 1 Environmental Screening Level (ESL1) for TPHd.  
Benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX) were not detected in the soil or 
groundwater samples.  The groundwater samples were additionally analyzed for other 
chlorinated volatile organic compounds (VOCs), none of which were detected.   
 
In 1996, the Levy Brothers Department Store was demolished and construction began on the 
existing Draeger’s Market building. Construction activities included the excavation of soil for the 
below grade parking structure, which included excavating the majority of the Site to a depth of 
approximately 10 feet.  Petroleum hydrocarbon-impacted soil reportedly was encountered on the 
north potion of the Site during excavation.  EKI (1996) stated that soil containing petroleum 
hydrocarbons appeared to be limited to the upper 6 feet of soil and that soil excavated from the 6 
to 10-foot depths did not exhibit obvious indications of petroleum hydrocarbons.  Analyses of 
 
1  Environmental Screening Levels (ESLs) established by the Water Board (January 2019) are used to screen sites for potential human 
health concerns where releases of chemicals have occurred.  These screening levels are risk-based concentrations derived from 
standardized equations combining exposure information assumptions with toxicity data.  Under most circumstances, the presence of 
a chemical at concentrations below the corresponding screening level can be assumed not to pose a significant health risk.  
 
893 of 1252

--- page 894 ---
118-141-1 
 
200-222 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
Page  3 
 
confirmation soil samples did not detect contaminants at concentrations above their respective 
Tier 1 ESLs.  No underground tanks, sumps, or piping infrastructure were encountered during 
excavation. Several areas of backfill were encountered in the northeast and southeast corners of 
the Site, presumably associated with the prior removals of the hydraulic lift and USTs (EKI, 1996).   
 
County of San Mateo, Environmental Health Services Division issued a closure letter in 1997 
stating that the Site investigation for the impacted surface soils from past operations at the Site 
is complete and that no further action related to the surface soils is required. 
 
The Phase I Environmental Site Assessment conducted by Geosyntec in 2019 identified two off-
Site drycleaning facilities that were considered to have a potential to impact groundwater and/or 
soil vapor at the Site.  These drycleaning facilities were identified by Geosyntec as Recognized 
Environmental Conditions2.  The former on-Site gasoline station operations were identified by 
Geosyntec as a Historical Recognized Environmental Condition3. 
 
In 2021, soil samples were collected from 11 borings advanced by RMD to depths between 
approximately 14 and 43 feet.  Groundwater samples also were collected from two borings.  
With regards to soil vapor, RMD (2021) stated that they did not propose collecting soil vapor 
samples considering 1) the entire site will be excavated for the construction of a 2-level parking 
garage and 2) it is presumed that the parking garage will be installed with measures to mitigate 
vapor intrusion concerns (if present), including a waterproof membrane and fresh air 
intake/circulation.  
 
Composite4 soil samples, each comprised of all samples collected from their respective borings, 
were analyzed for gasoline, diesel and oil range petroleum hydrocarbons, VOCs and 17 metals.  The 
number of soil sample aliquots within each composite ranged from 6 to 20.  The two groundwater 
grab samples were analyzed for gasoline, diesel and oil range petroleum hydrocarbons, and VOCs.   
 
None of the detected analytes in the composite soil samples exceeded their respective Tier 1 
ESL or, for metals, typical natural background levels.  RMD (2021) stated that shallow soil to be 
exported for off-Site disposal during Site grading is generally expected to meet acceptable 
criteria for non-hazardous waste characterization. 
 
In groundwater, TPHd was detected at up to 353 micrograms per liter (µg/L), which exceeds the 
Tier 1 ESL of 100 µg/L.  The Tier 1 ESL for TPHd is based on potential odor/nuisance concerns 
in drinking water.  Shallow groundwater at the Site, however, is not used as a drinking water 
source.  Chloroform also was detected in groundwater at up to 3.67 µg/L.  The Tier 1 ESL for 
chloroform in groundwater (based on potential vapor intrusion) is 0.81 µg/L.   
 
 
2  As defined by ASTM E1527-21, the term Recognized Environmental Condition means 1) the presence of hazardous substances 
or petroleum products in, on, or at the subject property due to a release to the environment; 2) the likely presence of hazardous 
substances or petroleum products in, on, or at the subject property due to a release or likely release to the environment; or 3) the 
presence of hazardous substances or petroleum products in, on, or at the subject property under conditions that pose a material 
threat of a future release to the environment. 
3  A previous release of hazardous substances or petroleum products affecting the Site that has been addressed to the satisfaction 
of the applicable regulatory agency and meeting unrestricted use criteria established by the applicable regulatory agency without 
subjecting the Site to any controls. 
4  Compositing is the process of physically combining and homogenizing several individual soil aliquots prior to analysis.  
894 of 1252

--- page 895 ---
118-141-1 
 
200-222 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
Page  4 
 
RMD concluded that the concentration of chloroform reported is relatively low and is likely 
attributed to potable water (as a result of chlorination of organic matter present in raw water 
supplies) and is not expected to drive further action.   
 
Additionally, RMD (2021) stated that a regulatory agency may require Lane to delineate or verify 
the source of the TPHd reported in groundwater, but, in their opinion, active remediation of 
TPHd in groundwater would not be required given the absence of benzene, naphthalene, or 
other VOCs in groundwater.  RMD (2021) also noted that 1) a soil and groundwater 
management plan would be required by a regulatory agency during property redevelopment, 
and 2) in the event that dewatering occurs during property redevelopment, carbon treatment of 
groundwater would likely be required due to the presence of TPHd prior to discharge to the 
storm or sanitary sewer drains.   
 
In a subsequent letter (RMD, 2022a), RMD stated that their statement that “a soil and 
groundwater management plan would be required by a regulatory agency during property 
development” would only apply for properties that actually have open case files, and would not 
apply to a site such as the subject Site where there is no need for an open regulatory case file. 
However, as a construction industry standard, it is a common best management practice (BMP) 
for redevelopment of former commercial sites to prepare soil and groundwater management 
plans. The statement that additional investigation may be required by a regulatory agency is 
hypothetical and conservative and was not intended to imply that a case opening is warranted or 
likely.  RMD (2022a) also noted that the need for treatment of groundwater associated with 
dewatering activities during construction would be determined during the required Application for 
Groundwater Waste Discharge Permit through the City of San Mateo Public Works Department. 
 
In their October 14, 2022 letter, RMD provided their opinion that based on the 2021 subsurface 
investigation data, soil and groundwater do not pose a significant risk to human health and the 
environment in relation to proposed construction activities, including with respect to construction 
workers and in regard to nearby residential use.  RMD additionally indicated that a Construction 
Site Management Plan (SMP) will be prepared for the Site that will be used as a guidance 
document for handling impacted soil and groundwater, if encountered, during construction activities.   
 
Conclusions and Recommendations 
 
 
Based on the information obtained during this study, Cornerstone concludes and recommends 
the following:   
 
 
Based on the prior sampling, the Site generally does not appear to have been significantly 
impacted by past Site occupants or by VOC releases from nearby off-Site drycleaning facilities.  
The planned use appears compatible with the known on-Site environmental conditions.   
 
 
As is common during development of properties with a commercial or industrial history, the 
preparation of a Site Management Plan (SMP) is recommended to establish appropriate 
management practices for handling impacted soil or groundwater that may be encountered 
during construction activities.  A Health and Safety Plan (HSP) also should be prepared as 
required by California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) to establish 
health and safety protocols for construction personnel working at the Site.   
 
 
If groundwater dewatering activities will be conducted during the planned redevelopment, 
the need for treatment of groundwater should be determined during the required discharge 
permitting process.  If discharge to the sanitary sewer system is anticipated, a Groundwater 
895 of 1252

--- page 896 ---
118-141-1 
 
200-222 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
Page  5 
 
Waste Discharge Permit should be obtained from the City of San Mateo Public Works 
Department.  If discharge to the storm sewer system is anticipated, a National Pollutant 
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit should be obtained.   
 
 
Based on prior studies by EGC (1994), EKI (1995) and RMD (2021), residual 
contaminant concentrations in Site soil are not expected to exceed their respective 
ESLs.  Note, however, that the composite soil samples analyzed by RMD contained up 
to 20 sample aliquots, which is uncommon and not consistent with regulatory guidance. 
Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC)5 indicates that if samples are 
composited, they should be from the same soil layer, and that compositing samples for 
volatile and semi-volatile constituents is not acceptable.  The EPA (1995)6 similarly 
states that compositing is not recommended where volatile compounds are of concern.  
The recommended SMP should establish appropriate protocols for profiling of soil to be 
removed from the Site for off-Site disposal.  The profiling protocols should be consistent 
with regulatory guidance and also meet the requirements of the facility that will be 
accepting the soil for disposal or reuse.   
 
 
We understand that the planned development will include two levels of below grade 
parking. To reduce the potential for vapor intrusion, we recommend utilizing a dual-
purpose waterproofing membrane that provides:  1) required waterproofing protection; 2) 
chemical degradation protection; and 3) serves as an effective vapor barrier.  
Alternatively, soil vapor sampling shall be performed in the building envelop to confirm 
the presence or absence of VOCs above residential screening levels. 
 
Limitations 
 
 
Cornerstone performed this investigation to support David J. Powers & Associates in the 
evaluation of the referenced Site.  Conclusions presented in this letter are based on limited, 
readily available information.  This letter, an instrument of professional service, was prepared for 
the sole use of David J. Powers & Associates and may not be reproduced or distributed without 
written authorization from Cornerstone.  It is valid for 180 days.  Cornerstone makes no warranty, 
expressed or implied, except that our services have been performed in accordance with the 
environmental principles generally accepted at this time and location.   
 
We thank you for this opportunity to work with you on this important project. Should you have 
any questions, please contact us at your convenience. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. 
 
Ron L. Helm, C.E.G. 
Senior Principal Geologist 
 
 
5  Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC).  October 2001.  Information Advisory Clean Imported Fill Material. 
6  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  December 1995.  Superfund Program Representative Sampling Guidance. 
896 of 1252

--- page 897 ---
DRAEGER’S MIXED-USE PROJECT  
NOISE AND VIBRATION ASSESSMENT 
 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
 
 
October 17, 2022 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
 
Connor Tutino 
Associate Project Manager 
David J. Powers & Associates, Inc.  
1736 Franklin Street, Suite 400 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
 
Carrie J. Janello 
Michael S. Thill 
 
 
429 East Cotati Avenue 
Cotati, CA 94931 
(707) 794-0400 
 
 
 
 
 
I&R Job No.: 22-036
897 of 1252

--- page 898 ---
1 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
A five-story mixed-use project is proposed at 222 East 4th Avenue in the City of San Mateo, 
California. The proposed project would include approximately 104,722 square feet of office space, 
17,658 square feet of retail space, 8,971 square feet of residential space, and two levels of below-
grade parking. Construction of the project would include the demolition of the existing on-site 
improvements.  
 
This report evaluates the project’s potential to result in significant impacts with respect to 
applicable California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines. The report is divided into 
three sections: 1) the Setting Section provides a brief description of the fundamentals of 
environmental noise and groundborne vibration, summarizes applicable regulatory criteria, and 
discusses ambient noise conditions in the project vicinity; 2) the Plan Consistency Analysis section 
discusses noise and land use compatibility utilizing policies in the City’s General Plan; and, 3) the 
Impacts and Mitigation Measures Section describes the significance criteria used to evaluate 
project impacts, provides a discussion of each project impact, and presents mitigation measures, 
where necessary, to mitigate project impacts to a less-than-significant level. 
 
SETTING 
 
Fundamentals of Environmental Noise 
 
Noise may be defined as unwanted sound. Noise is usually objectionable because it is disturbing 
or annoying. The objectionable nature of sound could be caused by its pitch or its loudness. Pitch 
is the height or depth of a tone or sound, depending on the relative rapidity (frequency) of the 
vibrations by which it is produced. Higher pitched signals sound louder to humans than sounds 
with a lower pitch. Loudness is intensity of sound waves combined with the reception 
characteristics of the ear. Intensity may be compared with the height of an ocean wave in that it is 
a measure of the amplitude of the sound wave.  
 
In addition to the concepts of pitch and loudness, there are several noise measurement scales which 
are used to describe noise in a particular location. A decibel (dB) is a unit of measurement which 
indicates the relative amplitude of a sound. The zero on the decibel scale is based on the lowest 
sound level that the healthy, unimpaired human ear can detect. Sound levels in decibels are 
calculated on a logarithmic basis. An increase of 10 decibels represents a ten-fold increase in 
acoustic energy, while 20 decibels is 100 times more intense, 30 decibels is 1,000 times more 
intense, etc. There is a relationship between the subjective noisiness or loudness of a sound and its 
intensity. Each 10 decibel increase in sound level is perceived as approximately a doubling of 
loudness over a fairly wide range of intensities. Technical terms are defined in Table 1.  
 
There are several methods of characterizing sound. The most common in California is the A-
weighted sound level (dBA). This scale gives greater weight to the frequencies of sound to which 
the human ear is most sensitive. Representative outdoor and indoor noise levels in units of dBA 
are shown in Table 2. Because sound levels can vary markedly over a short period of time, a 
method for describing either the average character of the sound or the statistical behavior of the 
variations must be utilized. Most commonly, environmental sounds are described in terms of an 
898 of 1252

--- page 899 ---
2 
 
average level that has the same acoustical energy as the summation of all the time-varying events. 
This energy-equivalent sound/noise descriptor is called Leq. The most common averaging period 
is hourly, but Leq can describe any series of noise events of arbitrary duration.  
 
The scientific instrument used to measure noise is the sound level meter. Sound level meters can 
accurately measure environmental noise levels to within about plus or minus 1 dBA. Various 
computer models are used to predict environmental noise levels from sources, such as roadways 
and airports. The accuracy of the predicted models depends upon the distance the receptor is from 
the noise source. Close to the noise source, the models are accurate to within about plus or minus 
1 to 2 dBA.  
 
Since the sensitivity to noise increases during the evening and at night -- because excessive noise 
interferes with the ability to sleep -- 24-hour descriptors have been developed that incorporate 
artificial noise penalties added to quiet-time noise events. The Community Noise Equivalent Level 
(CNEL) is a measure of the cumulative noise exposure in a community, with a 5 dB penalty added 
to evening (7:00 pm - 10:00 pm) and a 10 dB addition to nocturnal (10:00 pm - 7:00 am) noise 
levels. The Day/Night Average Sound Level (DNL or Ldn) is essentially the same as CNEL, with 
the exception that the evening time period is dropped and all occurrences during this three-hour 
period are grouped into the daytime period. 
 
Effects of Noise 
 
Sleep and Speech Interference 
 
The thresholds for speech interference indoors are about 45 dBA if the noise is steady and above 
55 dBA if the noise is fluctuating. Outdoors the thresholds are about 15 dBA higher. Steady noises 
of sufficient intensity (above 35 dBA) and fluctuating noise levels above about 45 dBA have been 
shown to affect sleep. Interior residential standards for multi-family dwellings are set by the State 
of California at 45 dBA Ldn. Typically, the highest steady traffic noise level during the daytime is 
about equal to the Ldn and nighttime levels are 10 dBA lower. The standard is designed for sleep 
and speech protection and most jurisdictions apply the same criterion for all residential uses. 
Typical structural attenuation is 12 to 17 dBA with open windows. With closed windows in good 
condition, the noise attenuation factor is around 20 dBA for an older structure and 25 dBA for a 
newer dwelling. Sleep and speech interference is therefore possible when exterior noise levels are 
about 57 to 62 dBA Ldn with open windows and 65 to 70 dBA Ldn if the windows are closed. 
Levels of 55 to 60 dBA are common along collector streets and secondary arterials, while 65 to 70 
dBA is a typical value for a primary/major arterial. Levels of 75 to 80 dBA are normal noise levels 
at the first row of development outside a freeway right-of-way. In order to achieve an acceptable 
interior noise environment, bedrooms facing secondary roadways need to be able to have their 
windows closed, those facing major roadways and freeways typically need special glass windows. 
 
 
 
899 of 1252

--- page 900 ---
3 
 
Annoyance 
 
Attitude surveys are used for measuring the annoyance felt in a community for noises intruding 
into homes or affecting outdoor activity areas. In these surveys, it was determined that the causes 
for annoyance include interference with speech, radio and television, house vibrations, and 
interference with sleep and rest. The Ldn as a measure of noise has been found to provide a valid 
correlation of noise level and the percentage of people annoyed. People have been asked to judge 
the annoyance caused by aircraft noise and ground transportation noise. There continues to be 
disagreement about the relative annoyance of these different sources. When measuring the 
percentage of the population highly annoyed, the threshold for ground vehicle noise is about 50 
dBA Ldn. At a Ldn of about 60 dBA, approximately 12 percent of the population is highly annoyed. 
When the Ldn increases to 70 dBA, the percentage of the population highly annoyed increases to 
about 25 to 30 percent of the population. There is, therefore, an increase of about 2 percent per 
dBA between a Ldn of 60 to 70 dBA. Between a Ldn of 70 to 80 dBA, each decibel increase 
increases by about 3 percent the percentage of the population highly annoyed. People appear to 
respond more adversely to aircraft noise. When the Ldn is 60 dBA, approximately 30 to 35 percent 
of the population is believed to be highly annoyed. Each decibel increase to 70 dBA adds about 3 
percentage points to the number of people highly annoyed. Above 70 dBA, each decibel increase 
results in about a 4 percent increase in the percentage of the population highly annoyed. 
 
 
900 of 1252

--- page 901 ---
4 
 
TABLE 1 
Definition of Acoustical Terms Used in this Report 
Term 
Definition 
Decibel, dB 
A unit describing, the amplitude of sound, equal to 20 times the logarithm 
to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the 
reference pressure. The reference pressure for air is 20 micro Pascals.  
Sound Pressure Level 
Sound pressure is the sound force per unit area, usually expressed in micro 
Pascals (or 20 micro Newtons per square meter), where 1 Pascal is the 
pressure resulting from a force of 1 Newton exerted over an area of 1 square 
meter. The sound pressure level is expressed in decibels as 20 times the 
logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio between the pressures exerted by the 
sound to a reference sound pressure (e. g., 20 micro Pascals). Sound 
pressure level is the quantity that is directly measured by a sound level 
meter.  
Frequency, Hz 
The number of complete pressure fluctuations per second above and below 
atmospheric pressure. Normal human hearing is between 20 Hz and 20,000 
Hz. Infrasonic sound are below 20 Hz and Ultrasonic sounds are above 
20,000 Hz.  
A-Weighted Sound 
Level, dBA 
The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter 
using the A-weighting filter network. The A-weighting filter de-emphasizes 
the very low and very high frequency components of the sound in a manner 
similar to the frequency response of the human ear and correlates well with 
subjective reactions to noise.  
Equivalent Noise Level, 
Leq  
The average A-weighted noise level during the measurement period.  
Lmax, Lmin 
The maximum and minimum A-weighted noise level during the 
measurement period.  
L01, L10, L50, L90 
The A-weighted noise levels that are exceeded 1%, 10%, 50%, and 90% of 
the time during the measurement period.  
Day/Night Noise Level, 
Ldn or DNL 
The average A-weighted noise level during a 24-hour day, obtained after 
addition of 10 decibels to levels measured in the night between 10:00 pm and 
7:00 am.  
Community Noise 
Equivalent Level, 
CNEL 
The average A-weighted noise level during a 24-hour day, obtained after 
addition of 5 decibels in the evening from 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm and after 
addition of 10 decibels to sound levels measured in the night between 10:00 
pm and 7:00 am.  
Ambient Noise Level 
The composite of noise from all sources near and far. The normal or existing 
level of environmental noise at a given location.   
 
 
 
Intrusive 
That noise which intrudes over and above the existing ambient noise at a 
given location. The relative intrusiveness of a sound depends upon its 
amplitude, duration, frequency, and time of occurrence and tonal or 
informational content as well as the prevailing ambient noise level.  
Source:  Handbook of Acoustical Measurements and Noise Control, Harris, 1998.  
 
 
901 of 1252

--- page 902 ---
5 
 
TABLE 2 
Typical Noise Levels in the Environment 
 
Common Outdoor Activities 
 
Noise Level (dBA) 
 
Common Indoor Activities 
 
110 dBA 
Rock band 
Jet fly-over at 1,000 feet 
 
 
 
100 dBA 
 
Gas lawn mower at 3 feet 
 
 
 
90 dBA 
 
Diesel truck at 50 feet at 50 mph 
 
Food blender at 3 feet 
 
80 dBA 
Garbage disposal at 3 feet 
Noisy urban area, daytime 
 
 
Gas lawn mower, 100 feet 
70 dBA 
Vacuum cleaner at 10 feet 
Commercial area 
 
Normal speech at 3 feet 
Heavy traffic at 300 feet 
60 dBA 
 
 
 
Large business office 
Quiet urban daytime 
50 dBA 
Dishwasher in next room 
 
 
 
Quiet urban nighttime 
40 dBA 
Theater, large conference room 
Quiet suburban nighttime 
 
 
 
30 dBA 
Library 
Quiet rural nighttime 
 
Bedroom at night, concert hall 
(background) 
 
20 dBA 
 
 
 
Broadcast/recording studio 
 
10 dBA 
 
 
0 dBA 
 
Source: Technical Noise Supplement (TeNS), California Department of Transportation, September 2013. 
 
 
902 of 1252

--- page 903 ---
6 
 
Fundamentals of Groundborne Vibration  
 
Ground vibration consists of rapidly fluctuating motions or waves with an average motion of zero. 
Several different methods are typically used to quantify vibration amplitude. One method is the 
Peak Particle Velocity (PPV). The PPV is defined as the maximum instantaneous positive or 
negative peak of the vibration wave. In this report, a PPV descriptor with units of mm/sec or in/sec 
is used to evaluate construction generated vibration for building damage and human complaints. 
Table 3 displays the reactions of people and the effects on buildings that continuous or frequent 
intermittent vibration levels produce. The guidelines in Table 3 represent syntheses of vibration 
criteria for human response and potential damage to buildings resulting from construction 
vibration. 
 
Construction activities can cause vibration that varies in intensity depending on several factors. 
The use of pile driving and vibratory compaction equipment typically generates the highest 
construction related groundborne vibration levels. Because of the impulsive nature of such 
activities, the use of the PPV descriptor has been routinely used to measure and assess groundborne 
vibration and almost exclusively to assess the potential of vibration to cause damage and the degree 
of annoyance for humans.  
 
The two primary concerns with construction-induced vibration, the potential to damage a structure 
and the potential to interfere with the enjoyment of life, are evaluated against different vibration 
limits. Human perception to vibration varies with the individual and is a function of physical 
setting and the type of vibration. Persons exposed to elevated ambient vibration levels, such as 
people in an urban environment, may tolerate a higher vibration level.  
 
Structural damage can be classified as cosmetic only, such as paint flaking or minimal extension 
of cracks in building surfaces; minor, including limited surface cracking; or major, that may 
threaten the structural integrity of the building. Safe vibration limits that can be applied to assess 
the potential for damaging a structure vary by researcher. The damage criteria presented in Table 
3 include several categories for ancient, fragile, and historic structures, the types of structures most 
at risk to damage. Most buildings are included within the categories ranging from “Historic and 
some old buildings” to “Modern industrial/commercial buildings”. Construction-induced vibration 
that can be detrimental to the building is very rare and has only been observed in instances where 
the structure is at a high state of disrepair and the construction activity occurs immediately adjacent 
to the structure.  
 
The annoyance levels shown in Table 3 should be interpreted with care since vibration may be 
found to be annoying at lower levels than those shown, depending on the level of activity or the 
sensitivity of the individual. To sensitive individuals, vibrations approaching the threshold of 
perception can be annoying. Low-level vibrations frequently cause irritating secondary vibration, 
such as a slight rattling of windows, doors, or stacked dishes. The rattling sound can give rise to 
exaggerated vibration complaints, even though there is very little risk of actual structural damage. 
 
 
 
903 of 1252

--- page 904 ---
7 
 
TABLE 3 
Reaction of People and Damage to Buildings from Continuous or Frequent 
Intermittent Vibration Levels 
Velocity Level, 
PPV (in/sec) 
Human Reaction 
Effect on Buildings 
0.01 
Barely perceptible 
No effect 
0.04 
Distinctly perceptible 
Vibration unlikely to cause damage of any type to any 
structure 
0.08 
Distinctly perceptible to 
strongly perceptible 
Recommended upper level of the vibration to which 
ruins and ancient monuments should be subjected 
0.1 
Strongly perceptible  
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to fragile 
buildings with no risk of damage to most buildings 
0.25 
Strongly perceptible to severe 
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to historic 
and some old buildings. 
0.3 
Strongly perceptible to severe 
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to older 
residential structures 
0.5 
Severe - Vibrations considered 
unpleasant  
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to new 
residential and modern commercial/industrial structures 
Source: Transportation and Construction Vibration Guidance Manual, California Department of Transportation, 
April 2020. 
 
Regulatory Background – Noise 
 
This section describes the relevant guidelines, policies, and standards established by State 
Agencies and the City of San Mateo. The State CEQA Guidelines, Appendix G, are used to assess 
the potential significance of impacts pursuant to local General Plan policies, Municipal Code 
standards, or the applicable standards of other agencies. A summary of the applicable regulatory 
criteria is provided below.  
 
State of California 
 
State CEQA Guidelines. The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) contains guidelines 
to evaluate the significance of effects of environmental noise attributable to a proposed project. 
Under CEQA, noise impacts would be considered significant if the project would result in: 
 
(a) 
Generation of a substantial temporary or permanent increase in ambient noise levels 
in the vicinity of the project in excess of standards established in the local general 
plan or noise ordinance, or applicable standards of other agencies;  
 
(b) 
Generation of excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne noise levels; 
 
(c) 
For a project located within the vicinity of a private airstrip or an airport land use 
plan or where such a plan has not been adopted within two miles of a public airport 
or public use airport, if the project would expose people residing or working in the 
project area to excessive noise levels. 
 
904 of 1252

--- page 905 ---
8 
 
2019 California Building Code, Title 24, Part 2. The current version of the California Building 
Code (CBC) requires interior noise levels in multi-family residential units attributable to exterior 
environmental noise sources to be limited to a level not exceeding 45 dBA DNL/CNEL in any 
habitable room. 
 
2019 California Building Cal Green Code. The State of California established exterior sound 
transmission control standards for new non-residential buildings as set forth in the 2019 California 
Green Building Standards Code (Section 5.507.4.1 and 5.507.4.2). The sections that pertain to this 
project are as follows:  
 
5.507.4.1 Exterior noise transmission, prescriptive method. Wall and roof-ceiling 
assemblies exposed to the noise source making up the building envelope shall meet a 
composite STC rating of at least 50 or a composite OITC rating of no less than 40, with 
exterior windows of a minimum STC of 40 or OITC of 30 when the building falls within 
the 65 dBA Ldn noise contour of a freeway or expressway, railroad, industrial source or 
fixed-guideway noise source, as determined by the local general plan noise element. 
 
5.507.4.2 Performance method. For buildings located, as defined by Section 5.507.4.1, 
wall and roof-ceiling assemblies exposed to the noise source making up the building 
envelope shall be constructed to provide an interior noise environment attributable to 
exterior sources that does not exceed an hourly equivalent noise level (Leq (1-hr)) of 50 dBA 
in occupied areas during any hour of operation. 
 
The performance method, which establishes the acceptable interior noise level, is the method 
typically used when applying these standards.  
 
City of San Mateo 
 
City of San Mateo General Plan: The Noise Element of the City of San Mateo General Plan sets 
forth goals and policies to control environmental noise and protect citizens from excessive noise 
exposure. The goals and policies relevant to this project are summarized below: 
 
GOAL 1: Protect “noise sensitive” land uses from excessive noise levels.  
POLICIES: 
N 1.1: Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and interior 
noise insulation for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 that have an exterior 
noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1. The maximum interior noise 
level shall not exceed 45 dB (Ldn) in any habitable rooms.  
N 1.2: Exterior Noise Level Standard. Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, play areas, 
and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the enjoyment of residents) 
that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1. Require 
an acoustical analysis that uses peak hour Leq for new parks and play areas. Require a 
feasibility analysis of noise reduction measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate 
necessary mitigation measures into residential project design to minimize common open 
905 of 1252

--- page 906 ---
9 
 
space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 67 dB (Ldn) for residential 
uses and should not exceed 65 dB (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park uses.  
GOAL 2:  Minimize unnecessary, annoying and unhealthful noise.  
POLICIES: 
N 2.1: Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of City’s existing noise 
control ordinance: (a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of 
normal sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and (b) restricts the hours of 
construction to minimize noise impact. 
N 2.2: Minimize Noise Impact. Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables N-1 and 
N-2 from adverse impacts caused by noise generated on-site by new developments. 
Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize noise 
impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB (Ldn) or greater at the common 
property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels.  
N 2.3: Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise sensitive” 
in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise generated by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to 
minimize noise impacts. Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dB (Ldn) or 
above at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
N 2.4: Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting from traffic 
increases. Promote the installation of noise barriers along highways where “noise-
sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 are adversely impacted by unacceptable noise levels 
[60 dB (Ldn) or above]. Require adequate noise mitigation to be incorporated into the 
widening of SR 92 and US 101. Accept noise increases on El Camino Real at existing 
development and require new multi-family development to provide common open space 
having a maximum exterior noise level of 67 dB (Ldn).
906 of 1252

--- page 907 ---
10 
 
 
1 These guidelines are derived from the California Department of Health Services, Guidelines for the Preparation and 
Content of the Noise Element of the General Plan, 2003. The State Guidelines have been modified to reflect San 
Mateo's preference for distinct noise compatibility categories and to better reflect local land-use and noise conditions. 
It is intended that these guidelines be utilized to evaluate the suitability of land-use changes only and not to determine 
cumulative noise impacts. Land uses other than those classified as being “noise sensitive” are exempt from these 
compatibility guidelines. 
2 Normally Acceptable – Specified land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any buildings involved are 
of normal conventional construction, without any special noise insulation requirements. 
3 Conditionally Acceptable – New construction should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis of the noise 
reduction requirement is conducted and needed noise insulation features included in the design. 
4 Normally Unacceptable – New construction should be discouraged. If new construction or development does 
proceed, a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements must be made and needed noise insulation features 
included in the design. 
* Average Sound Level (Leq) for peak hour. 
 
907 of 1252

--- page 908 ---
11 
 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code: The Noise Regulations of the San Mateo Municipal Code, 
Chapter 7.30 are set forth to protect the inhabitants of the City against all forms of nuisances.  
 
Section 7.30.040 Maximum Permissible Sound Levels. It is unlawful for any person to operate or 
cause to be operated any source of sound at any location within the city or allow the creation of 
any noise on property owned, leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which 
causes the noise level when measured on any other property to exceed: 
 
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a cumulative 
period of more than thirty minutes in any hour; 
 
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than fifteen minutes 
in any hour; 
 
(3) The noise level standard plus ten dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes in 
any hour; 
 
(4) The noise level standard plus fifteen dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute 
in any hour; or 
 
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus twenty dB for any 
period of time. 
 
If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table 7.30.040, then 
the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of this section. In such cases, the 
noise levels for purposes of subsections (2) through (5) of this section shall be increased in five 
dB increments above the ambient. 
 
Table 7.30.040: Noise Level Standards 
Noise Zone 
Time Period 
Noise Level, dBA 
Noise Zone 1  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
50 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
60 
Noise Zone 2  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
55 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
60 
Noise Zone 3  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
60 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
65 
Noise Zone 4 
Anytime 
70 
 
Section 7.30.060 Special Provisions. Construction, alteration, repair, or land development 
activities authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed at the following times: 
• Weekdays: between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. 
• Saturdays: between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
• Sundays and Holidays: between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.  
• Or at other such hours as authorized or restricted by the permit, so long as they meet the 
following conditions: 
 
908 of 1252

--- page 909 ---
12 
 
1. No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a 
distance of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet as 
possible. 
2. The noise level outside of any point outside the property plane of the project shall not 
exceed 90 dBA. 
 
Existing Noise Environment 
 
The project site is located to the south of the East 4th Avenue/South B Street intersection in San 
Mateo, California. A residential building is located southeast of the project site, opposite East 5th 
Avenue, and existing commercial retail uses are located southwest of the site, opposite South 
Ellsworth Avenue, northwest of the site, opposite East 4th Avenue, and northeast of the site, 
opposite South B Street.  
 
The existing noise environment at the site results primarily from local vehicular traffic along East 
4th Avenue and the other surrounding roadways. Distant U.S. Highway 101 (Highway 101) traffic 
noise, train noise from the nearby tracks one block to the northeast, and aircraft associated with 
the San Francisco International Airport also contribute to the noise environment. 
 
A noise monitoring survey, which included two long-term (LT-1 and LT-2) and two short-term 
(ST-1 and ST-2) noise measurements, was performed at the site between Tuesday March 22, 2022 
and Thursday March 24, 2022. All measurement locations are shown in Figure 1.  
 
Long-term noise measurement LT-1 was made approximately 30 feet southeast of the centerline 
of East 4th Avenue. Hourly average noise levels at LT-1 typically ranged from 66 to 68 dBA Leq 
during the day and from 53 to 67 dBA Leq at night. The day-night average noise level (Ldn) for the 
24-hour period occurring on Wednesday March 23, 2022 was 70 dBA Ldn. The daily trends in 
noise levels at LT-1 are shown in Figures A1 through A3 in the Appendix of this report.  
 
Noise measurement LT-2 was made approximately 20 feet northwest of the centerline of East 5th 
Avenue. Hourly average noise levels at LT-2 typically ranged from 62 to 76 dBA Leq during the 
day and from 51 to 66 dBA Leq at night. The day-night average noise level (Ldn) for the 24-hour 
period occurring on Wednesday March 23, 2022 was 69 dBA Ldn. The daily trends in noise levels 
at LT-2 are shown in Appendix Figures A4 through A6.  
 
Two short-term noise measurements were made on Tuesday March 22, 2022 in 10-minute intervals 
between 1:00 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. ST-1 was made approximately 40 feet northeast of the centerline 
of South Ellsworth Avenue. Contributing noise sources at ST-1 included parking lot noise, traffic 
along nearby South 4th Avenue, and airplane flyovers. Parking lot activity generated noise levels 
of 62 to 72 dBA. Traffic noise generated noise levels ranging from 62 to 64 dBA, and airplanes 
generated noise levels of 58 to 60 dBA. The 10-minute average noise level at ST-1 was 56 dBA 
Leq(10-min).  
 
ST-2 was made approximately 25 feet southwest of the centerline of South B Street. Major noise 
sources at ST-2 included local traffic along nearby East 4th Avenue and South B Street and train 
909 of 1252

--- page 910 ---
13 
 
noise from the tracks one block northeast of the site. Typical traffic noise ranged from 52 to 54 
dBA, while noisy vehicles generated noise levels up to 80 dBA. A train horn generated noise levels 
ranging from 70 to 72 dBA. The 10-minute average noise level at ST-2 was 64 dBA Leq(10-min).  
 
Table 4 summarizes the results of the 10-minute noise measurements made at ST-1 and ST-2. 
 
TABLE 4 
Summary of Short-Term Noise Measurement Data (dBA) 
Noise Measurement Location  
(Date, Time) 
Lmax 
L(1) 
L(10) 
L(50) 
L(90) 
Leq(10) 
ST-1: ~40 feet northeast of the centerline of 
South Ellsworth Avenue  
(3/22/2022, 1:00-1:10 p.m.) 
72 
64 
58 
54 
51 
56 
ST-2: ~25 feet southwest of the centerline of 
South B Street (3/22/2022, 1:20-1:30 p.m.) 
80 
76 
66 
60 
54 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
910 of 1252

--- page 911 ---
14 
 
FIGURE 1 
Aerial Image of the Project Site and Surrounding Area, with the Noise Measurement Locations Identified 
 
Source: Google Earth, 2022. 
911 of 1252

--- page 912 ---
15 
 
PLAN CONSISTENCY ANALYSIS 
 
Noise and Land Use Compatibility 
 
The City of San Mateo General Plan, which is presented in detail in the Regulatory Background 
section of this report, includes exterior and interior noise thresholds for residential uses. Note, the 
City’s exterior noise thresholds apply only to common use areas and not private balconies, porches, 
or patios. Additionally, the State of California establishes acceptable interior noise limits within 
residential and non-residential land uses. The thresholds that apply to the proposed project are 
summarized below:  
 
• Policy N 1.2 and Table N-1 of the City’s General Plan identifies exterior noise thresholds 
of 59 dBA Ldn or below as “normally acceptable” for multi-family residential uses; 
however, the policy further states that common open spaces at multi-family residential 
buildings intended for the use and enjoyment of residents would be limited to a maximum 
allowable noise level of 67 dBA Ldn. 
 
• The City and State’s acceptable interior noise level standard is 45 dBA Ldn or less for the 
proposed residential land uses.  
 
• The Cal Green Code standards specify an interior noise environment attributable to exterior 
sources not to exceed an hourly equivalent noise level (Leq (1-hr)) of 50 dBA in occupied 
areas of nonresidential uses during any hour of operation. 
 
The future noise environment at the site would continue to result primarily from vehicular traffic 
along nearby roadways. The traffic study completed for the proposed project included average 
daily traffic (ADT) turning movements for five intersections in the project vicinity. Comparing the 
ADT volumes for the cumulative plus project scenario to the existing ADT volumes, the future 
traffic noise level increase experienced at the project site would be up to 2 dBA Ldn along East 4th 
Avenue and up to 1 dBA Ldn along East 5th Avenue with the inclusion of the proposed project. 
 
Future Exterior Noise Environment 
 
The site plan shows a community open space area and outdoor dining area, which would be 
affiliated with ground-level retail, on the first floor. Office terraces are shown on levels three and 
four, and an office roof deck is shown on level five. A common use outdoor area associated with 
the residential component of the proposed project is also shown on level five.  
 
Residential Land Uses 
The residential common use area is proposed along the building façade facing South B Street. The 
center of the common use area would be set back approximately 75 feet from the centerline of the 
roadway. Due to the height of the common use area and the setback from the edge of the building, 
the attenuation at the center of the common use area, which is where the majority of the extended 
use would occur, would be about 20 dBA. Therefore, the future exterior noise levels at the center 
of the fifth-floor common use area would be below 60 dBA Ldn. This would be compatible with 
the City’s 67 dBA Ldn threshold for residential uses. 
912 of 1252

--- page 913 ---
16 
 
Office and Commercial Retail Land Uses 
While the City does not define exterior noise thresholds for office and retail uses, other cities in 
the Bay Area typically limit exterior noise levels at these types of uses to 70 dBA Ldn. For purposes 
of this report, 70 dBA Ldn is used as the exterior noise threshold for offices and commercial retail 
uses. 
 
The office balcony on level three stretches along the building façades facing South Ellsworth 
Avenue, East 4th Street, and South B Street. The center of the third level terrace would be set back 
50 feet from the centerline of South Ellsworth Avenue and South B Street and about 60 feet from 
the centerline of East 4th Street. The elevation and setback of the center of the third-floor office 
terrace would result in attenuation of about 15 dBA. The future exterior noise levels at the third-
floor office terrace would be below 70 dBA Ldn.  
 
The fourth-floor office terrace is located in the westernmost corner of the building, with the center 
set back approximately 80 feet from the centerline of South Ellsworth Avenue and approximately 
100 feet from the centerline of East 4th Street. At these distances and at a higher elevation than the 
third-floor office terrace, the noise attenuation at the center of this terrace would be more than 15 
dBA. The future exterior noise levels at the fourth-floor office terrace would be below 70 dBA 
Ldn. 
 
The fifth-floor roof deck associated with the office use component of the proposed project would 
be located along the building façades facing East 4th Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue, with 
the center set back 80 and 75 feet, respectively. Due to these setbacks and the elevation of the fifth 
floor, the roof deck would experience noise attenuation of up to 20 dBA. The future exterior noise 
levels at the fourth-floor office terrace would be below 70 dBA Ldn. 
 
The ground-level outdoor seating area and common open space area are located at the intersection 
of South Ellsworth Avenue and East 4th Street. The center of this area would be set back from the 
centerlines of these roadways by approximately 65 feet from the centerline of South Ellsworth 
Avenue and approximately 75 feet from the centerline of East 4th Street. The building would 
provide partial shielding for this area. Assuming partial shielding, the future exterior noise levels 
at the ground-level outdoor seating area and common open space would be below 70 dBA Ldn. 
 
The common use outdoor areas associated with the office and commercial retail uses would be 
compatible with the future noise environment at the project site.  
 
Future Interior Noise Environment 
   
Residential Land Uses 
Standard residential construction provides approximately 15 dBA of exterior-to-interior noise 
reduction, assuming the windows are partially open for ventilation. Standard construction with the 
windows closed provides approximately 20 to 25 dBA of noise reduction in interior spaces. Where 
exterior noise levels range from 60 to 65 dBA Ldn, the inclusion of adequate forced-air mechanical 
ventilation is often the method selected to reduce interior noise levels to acceptable levels by 
closing the windows to control noise. Where noise levels exceed 65 dBA Ldn, forced-air 
mechanical ventilation systems and sound-rated construction methods are normally required. Such 
913 of 1252

--- page 914 ---
17 
 
methods or materials may include a combination of smaller window and door sizes as a percentage 
of the total building façade facing the noise source, sound-rated windows and doors, sound rated 
exterior wall assemblies, and mechanical ventilation so windows may be kept closed at the 
occupant’s discretion.  
 
Residential units are located on level five of the proposed building along the façades facing South 
B Street and East 5th Avenue. The setbacks of these units would be approximately 85 feet from the 
centerline of South B Street and approximately 60 feet from the centerline of East 5th Avenue. At 
these distances, the residential units would be exposed to future exterior noise levels ranging from 
65 to 68 dBA Ldn. Assuming windows to be partially open, future interior noise levels in these 
units would range from 50 to 53 dBA Ldn. 
 
To meet the City and State’s interior noise requirement of 45 dBA Ldn, implementation of noise 
insulation features would be required. 
 
Office and Commercial Retail Land Uses 
Offices and commercial retail would be located on levels one through four, with setbacks from the 
centerlines of the surrounding roadways of approximately 55 feet from East 4th Avenue, 30 feet 
from East 5th Avenue, and 40 to 45 feet from South Ellsworth Avenue and South B Street. At these 
distances, daytime hourly average noise levels would range from 61 to 75 dBA Leq, with day-night 
average noise levels up to 69 dBA Ldn.  
 
Standard construction materials for offices and commercial retail uses would provide about 25 
dBA of noise reduction in interior spaces. The inclusion of adequate forced-air mechanical 
ventilation systems is normally required so that windows may be kept closed at the occupant’s 
discretion and would provide an additional 5 dBA reduction. The standard construction materials 
in combination with forced-air mechanical ventilation would satisfy the daytime threshold of 50 
dBA Leq(1-hr) 
 
Spaces where lower noise levels would be desired, such as private offices and conference rooms, 
may benefit from additional noise control in order to meet a lower, more desirable interior noise 
level. Additional noise control could be accomplished by selecting higher sound-rated windows 
(STC 34 or greater along exterior façades).  
 
Noise Insulation Features to Reduce Future Interior Noise Levels  
 
 
The following noise insulation features shall be incorporated into the proposed project to reduce 
interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less at residential interiors:  
 
• Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, as determined by the local 
building official, for all residential units on the project site, so that windows can be kept 
closed at the occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and achieve the interior noise 
standards. 
 
914 of 1252

--- page 915 ---
18 
 
• Preliminary calculations indicate that all residential units would require windows and doors 
with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced-air mechanical ventilation to meet 
the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 
The implementation of these noise insulation features would reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA 
Ldn or less at residential uses. 
 
Conditions of Approval 
 
Interior Noise Standard for Residential Development. The project applicant shall prepare final 
design plans that incorporate building design and acoustical treatments to ensure compliance with 
State Building Codes and City noise standards. A project-specific acoustical analysis shall be 
prepared to ensure that the design incorporates controls to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA 
Ldn or lower within the residential unit and to 50 dBA Leq(1-hr) or lower within nonresidential 
interiors. The project applicant shall conform with any special building construction techniques 
requested by the City’s Building Department, which may include sound-rated windows and doors, 
sound-rated wall constructions, and acoustical caulking. 
 
NOISE IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES 
 
This section describes the significance criteria used to evaluate project impacts under CEQA, 
provides a discussion of each project impact, and presents mitigation measures, where necessary, 
to reduce project impacts to less-than-significant levels.  
 
Significance Criteria 
 
The following criteria were used to evaluate the significance of environmental noise resulting from 
the project: 
 
• A significant noise impact would be identified if the project would generate a substantial 
temporary or permanent noise level increase over ambient noise levels at existing noise-
sensitive receptors surrounding the project site and that would exceed applicable noise 
standards presented in the General Plan or Municipal Code at existing noise-sensitive 
receptors surrounding the project site.  
 
o A significant noise impact would be identified if construction-related noise would 
exceed the applicable noise standards presented in the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
 
o A significant permanent noise level increase would occur if the project would result 
in a 3 dBA Ldn or greater. 
 
o A significant noise impact would be identified if the project would expose persons 
to or generate noise levels that would exceed applicable noise standards presented 
in the General Plan or Municipal Code. 
 
915 of 1252

--- page 916 ---
19 
 
• A significant impact would be identified if the construction of the project would generate 
excessive vibration levels surrounding receptors. Groundborne vibration levels exceeding 
0.3 in/sec PPV would have the potential to result in cosmetic damage to normal buildings 
(see Table 3).  
 
• A significant noise impact would be identified if the project would expose people residing 
or working in the project area to excessive aircraft noise levels. 
 
Impact 1a: 
Temporary Construction Noise. Existing and future noise-sensitive land uses 
would potentially be exposed to a temporary increase in noise levels excess of the 
City’s construction noise limits. This is a potentially significant impact. 
 
The project applicant proposes to demolish the existing buildings on the project site. The 
construction schedule assumed that the earliest possible start date would be early March 2023, 
with an estimated completion date of mid of November 2024. Construction phases would include 
demolition, site preparation, grading/excavation, trenching, building construction, and paving. 
During each phase of construction, there would be a different mix of equipment operating, and 
noise levels would vary by phase and vary within phases, based on the amount of equipment in 
operation and the location at which the equipment is operating.  
 
Noise impacts resulting from construction depend upon the noise generated by various pieces of 
construction equipment, the timing and duration of noise-generating activities, and the distance 
between construction noise sources and noise-sensitive areas. Construction noise impacts 
primarily result when construction activities occur during noise-sensitive times of the day (e.g., 
early morning, evening, or nighttime hours), the construction occurs in areas immediately 
adjoining noise-sensitive land uses, or when construction lasts over extended periods of time. 
 
Section 7.30.060 of the City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code limits construction to weekdays 
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Saturdays between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and 
holidays between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. Additionally, the City specifies that no individual piece 
of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet and that the 
noise level outside any point outside the property plane of the project shall not exceed 90 dBA. 
 
Construction activities generate considerable amounts of noise, especially during earth-moving 
activities when heavy equipment is used. The hauling of excavated materials and construction 
materials would generate truck trips on local roadways, as well. For the proposed project, pile 
driving, which generates excessive noise levels, is not expected. The typical range of maximum 
instantaneous noise levels for the proposed project would be 70 to 90 dBA Lmax at a distance of 50 
feet (see Table 5) from the equipment. Table 6 shows the hourly average noise level ranges, by 
construction phase, typical for various types of projects. Hourly average noise levels generated by 
construction are about 72 to 88 dBA Leq for mixed-use buildings, measured at a distance of 50 feet 
from the center of a busy construction site. Construction-generated noise levels drop off at a rate 
of about 6 dBA per doubling of the distance between the source and receptor. Shielding by 
buildings or terrain often result in lower construction noise levels at distant receptors. 
 
916 of 1252

--- page 917 ---
20 
 
Equipment expected to be used in each construction phase are summarized in Table 7, along with 
the quantity of each type of equipment and the reference noise level at 50 feet, assuming the 
operation of the two loudest pieces of construction equipment for each construction phase.  
 
Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA’s) Roadway Construction Noise Model (RCNM) was 
used to calculate the hourly average noise levels for each phase of construction, assuming the two 
loudest pieces of equipment would operate simultaneously, as recommended by the FTA for 
construction noise evaluations. This construction noise model includes representative sound levels 
for the most common types of construction equipment and the approximate usage factors of such 
equipment that were developed based on an extensive database of information gathered during the 
construction of the Central Artery/Tunnel Project in Boston, Massachusetts (CA/T Project or "Big 
Dig"). The usage factors represent the percentage of time that the equipment would be operating 
at full power.  
 
Noise levels calculated at 50 feet in Table 7 were propagated from the geometrical center of the 
project site to the receiving property lines of existing noise-sensitive receptors surrounding the 
site. The construction noise levels at the receiving property lines are summarized in Table 8. Noise 
levels in Table 8 do not assume reductions due to intervening buildings or existing barriers. Note, 
the existing commercial buildings northeast of the project site, opposite South B Street, would be 
demolished under future conditions. A project currently in the application process proposes a 
mixed-use building with affordable housing residential units and an office/retail building. For 
purposes of this project, the receptors expected under the proposed project are assumed to exist by 
the time the Draegers Mixed-Use project is under construction. These are denoted as future 
receptors. 
 
 
 
917 of 1252

--- page 918 ---
21 
 
TABLE 5 
Construction Equipment 50-Foot Noise Emission Limits 
Equipment Category 
Lmax Level (dBA)1,2 
Impact/Continuous 
Arc Welder 
Auger Drill Rig 
Backhoe 
Bar Bender 
Boring Jack Power Unit 
Chain Saw 
Compressor3 
Compressor (other) 
Concrete Mixer 
Concrete Pump 
Concrete Saw 
Concrete Vibrator 
Crane 
Dozer 
Excavator 
Front End Loader 
Generator 
Generator (25 KVA or less) 
Gradall 
Grader 
Grinder Saw 
Horizontal Boring Hydro Jack 
Hydra Break Ram 
Impact Pile Driver 
Insitu Soil Sampling Rig 
Jackhammer 
Mounted Impact Hammer (hoe ram) 
Paver 
Pneumatic Tools 
Pumps 
Rock Drill 
Scraper 
Slurry Trenching Machine 
Soil Mix Drill Rig 
Street Sweeper 
Tractor 
Truck (dump, delivery) 
Vacuum Excavator Truck (vac-truck) 
Vibratory Compactor 
Vibratory Pile Driver 
All other equipment with engines larger than 5 HP 
73 
85 
80 
80 
80 
85 
70 
80 
85 
82 
90 
80 
85 
85 
85 
80 
82 
70 
85 
85 
85 
80 
90 
105 
84 
85 
90 
85 
85 
77 
85 
85 
82 
80 
80 
84 
84 
85 
80 
95 
85 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Impact 
Impact 
Continuous 
Impact 
Impact 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Continuous 
Notes: 
1 Measured at 50 feet from the construction equipment, with a “slow” (1 sec.) time constant. 
2 Noise limits apply to total noise emitted from equipment and associated components operating at full power 
while engaged in its intended operation. 
3Portable Air Compressor rated at 75 cfm or greater and that operates at greater than 50 psi. 
 
 
 
918 of 1252

--- page 919 ---
22 
 
TABLE 6 
Typical Ranges of Construction Noise Levels at 50 Feet, Leq (dBA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Domestic Housing 
 
 
Office Building, 
Hotel, Hospital, 
School, Public 
Works 
Industrial Parking 
Garage, Religious 
Amusement & 
Recreations, Store, 
Service Station 
 
Public Works 
Roads & Highways, 
Sewers, and 
Trenches 
I 
II 
I 
II 
I 
II 
I 
II 
Ground 
Clearing 
 
83 
83 
 
84 
84   
 
84 
83 
 
84 
84 
 
Excavation 
 
88 
75 
 
89 
79 
 
89 
71 
 
88 
78 
 
Foundations 
 
81 
81 
 
78 
78 
 
77 
77 
 
88 
88 
 
Erection 
 
81 
65 
 
87 
75 
 
84 
72 
 
79 
78 
 
Finishing 
 
88 
72 
 
89 
75 
 
89 
74 
 
84 
84 
I - All pertinent equipment present at site. 
II - Minimum required equipment present at site. 
Source:  U.S.E.P.A., Legal Compilation on Noise, Vol. 1, p. 2-104, 1973. 
 
TABLE 7 
Estimated Construction Noise Levels at a Distance of 50 feet 
Phase of Construction 
Total 
Workdays 
Construction Equipment 
(Quantity) 
Estimated Construction 
Noise Level at 50 feet  
Demolition 
26 days 
Concrete/Industrial Saw (1)a 
Excavator (1) 
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe (1) a 
85 dBA Leq 
Site Preparation 
1 day 
Grader (1)a 
81 dBA Leq 
Grading/Excavation 
71 days 
Excavator (1) 
Grader (1)a 
Rubber-Tired Dozer (1) 
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe (1) a 
Shoring Drill Rig (1) 
84 dBA Leq 
Trenching/Foundation 
55 days 
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe (1) a 
80 dBA Leq 
Building – Structure 
245 days 
Crane (1)a 
Forklift (2) 
Aerial Lift (1)a 
74 dBA Leq 
Building – Exterior 
139 days 
Crane (1)a 
Forklift (2) 
Welder (1)a 
Aerial Lift (2) 
75 dBA Leq 
Paving 
50 days 
Paver (1)a 
Paving Equipment (1)a 
Roller (1) 
83 dBA Leq 
a Denotes two loudest pieces of construction equipment per phase. 
 
919 of 1252

--- page 920 ---
23 
 
TABLE 8 
Estimated Construction Noise Levels at Receiving Property Lines 
Phase of Construction 
Calculated Hourly Average Noise Levels, Leq (dBA) 
Southeast Residences 
(90ft) 
Southwest 
Commercial (125ft) 
Northwest 
Commercial (175ft) 
Future Northeast 
Residential/ 
Commercial (125ft) 
Demolition 
73 dBA Leq 
74 dBA Leq 
73 dBA Leq 
74 dBA Leq 
Site Preparation 
70 dBA Leq 
70 dBA Leq 
70 dBA Leq 
70 dBA Leq 
Grading/Excavation 
72 dBA Leq 
73 dBA Leq 
72 dBA Leq 
73 dBA Leq 
Trenching/Foundation 
69 dBA Leq 
69 dBA Leq 
69 dBA Leq 
69 dBA Leq 
Building – Structure 
63 dBA Leq 
63 dBA Leq 
63 dBA Leq 
63 dBA Leq 
Building – Exterior 
63 dBA Leq 
64 dBA Leq 
63 dBA Leq 
64 dBA Leq 
Paving 
72 dBA Leq 
72 dBA Leq 
72 dBA Leq 
73 dBA Leq 
 
 
 
920 of 1252

--- page 921 ---
24 
 
As shown in Tables 7 and 8, construction noise levels would intermittently range from 74 to 85 
dBA Leq when activities occur approximately 50 feet from nearby receptors and would typically 
range from 63 to 74 dBA Leq when focused near the center of the site. Individual pieces of 
equipment could potentially exceed the City’s 90 dBA noise limit at a distance of 25 feet. This is 
a potentially significant impact.  
 
Mitigation Measure 1a: 
 
 
Modification, placement, and operation of construction equipment are possible means for 
minimizing the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive receptors. Construction 
equipment should be well-maintained and used judiciously to be as quiet as possible. Additionally, 
construction activities for the proposed project should include the following best management 
practices to reduce noise from construction activities near sensitive land uses: 
 
• Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the greatest 
distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors 
nearest the project site during all project construction.  
 
• Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and concrete saws within 35 
feet of shared property lines shall be limited, as feasible. 
 
• All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be equipped with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
 
• Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines should be strictly prohibited. If 
necessary, idling of internal combustion engines shall be limited to 5 minutes. 
 
• Stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or portable power 
generators, shall be located as far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. 
If they must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling 
(with barriers or enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise 
levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors to 90 dBA. All temporary barriers used shall be 
eight feet in height at minimum, continuous from grade to top, with no cracks or gaps, and 
have a minimum surface density of three pounds per square foot (e.g., one-inch thick wood 
fence boards). 
 
• Utilize “quiet” air compressors and other stationary noise sources where technology exists. 
 
• Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not audible at 
existing residences bordering the project site. 
 
• The contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plana identifying the schedule for 
major noise-generating construction activities. The construction plan shall identify a 
procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land uses so that construction activities 
can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. 
 
921 of 1252

--- page 922 ---
25 
 
• Designate a “disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any 
complaints about construction noise. The disturbance coordinator will determine the cause 
of the noise complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and will require that reasonable measures be 
implemented to correct the problem. Conspicuously post a telephone number for the 
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to neighbors 
regarding the construction schedule. 
 
Implementation of the above best management practices would reduce construction noise levels 
emanating from the site, limit construction hours, and minimize disruption and annoyance. With 
the implementation of these measures and recognizing that noise generated by construction 
activities would occur over a temporary period, the impact would be reduced to a less-than-
significant level. 
 
Impact 1b: 
Permanent Noise Level Increase/Exceed Applicable Standards. The proposed 
project would not result in a substantial permanent noise level increase or exceed 
applicable standards at the noise-sensitive receptors in the project vicinity. This is 
a less-than-significant impact.  
 
According to Policy N2.2 of the City’s General Plan, a significant permanent noise increase would 
occur at existing noise-sensitive receptors if a new development results in a permanent noise 
increase of 3 dBA Ldn or greater. 
 
Policy N2.3 limits new commercial developments from generating noise levels of 65 dBA Ldn or 
greater at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. Additionally, operational noise 
is limited to the noise levels specified in Table 7.30.040, adjusted for ambient conditions. Maximum 
permissible noise levels for sources operating more than 30 minutes in a given hour for residences 
would be that of Zone 1: 50 dBA during nighttime hours (between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.) and 60 
dBA during daytime hours (between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.). Maximum permissible noise levels 
for noise sources operating more than 30 minutes in a given hour for offices and commercial uses 
would be that of Zone 2: 55 dBA during nighttime hours and 60 dBA during daytime hours. For 
noise sources operating more than 15 minutes in a given hour, 5 dBA would be added to these 
thresholds. Noise sources operating more than five minutes in a given hour would have thresholds 
10 dBA above these levels, and noise sources operating more than one minute in a given hour would 
have thresholds 15 dBA above these levels.  
 
The Municipal Code also states that ambient noise levels would be used if existing ambient noise 
levels exceed the Municipal Code limits. The measured hourly average noise levels during daytime 
hours ranged from 62 to 76 dBA Leq (average of 65 dBA Leq) and from 51 to 66 dBA Leq during 
nighttime hours (average of 59 dBA Leq) along East 5th Avenue, which would represent the ambient 
environment at the existing residential receptors located opposite East 5th Avenue from the project 
site. Hourly average noise levels during daytime hours ranged from 66 to 68 dBA Leq (average of 
67 dBA Leq) and from 53 to 67 dBA Leq during nighttime hours (average of 61 dBA Leq) along 
East 4th Avenue, which would represent ambient conditions of existing commercial receptors 
opposite East 4th Avenue and opposite South Ellsworth Avenue from the project site, as well as 
the future residential/commercial receptors opposite South B Street. Since the average hourly 
average noise levels measured in the project vicinity during daytime and nighttime hours exceed 
the Municipal Code thresholds, the measured average noise levels will be used as the baseline 
922 of 1252

--- page 923 ---
26 
 
threshold for activities occurring more than 30 minutes in a given hour to conservatively assess 
the significance of the project’s operational noise. Where appropriate, the proper increase will be 
applied. 
 
Project Traffic Increase 
 
The traffic study included average daily traffic (ADT) along five roadway segments in the project 
site vicinity for the existing traffic volumes and project volumes. By adding the project volumes 
to the existing scenario, the existing plus project volumes were calculated and compared to the 
existing traffic volumes to estimate the project’s contribution to the overall noise level increase. 
Along each roadway segment in the project vicinity, the overall noise level increase was 
determined to be 1 dBA Ldn along East 5th Avenue and less than 1 dBA Ldn along all other roadway 
segments. Therefore, project traffic would not result in a permanent noise increase of 3 dBA Ldn 
or more at noise-sensitive receptors in the project vicinity.  
 
Mechanical Equipment 
 
The site plan shows a pump room, electrical room, and a transformer room on the ground-level of 
the proposed building along the southwestern façade. A mechanical penthouse is shown on level five 
in the southwestern portion of the building. The equipment located in the mechanical yard would 
include variable refrigerant flow (VRF) heat pump systems, exhaust vents, and make up air units 
(similar to air handling or heating, ventilation, air conditioning [HVAC] units) for the office uses, 
commercial retail uses, and garage. Solar panels are also shown along the southeastern façade of 
level five. The rooftop would include residential HVAC units. For all these units, continuous 24-
hour operation would represent worst-case conditions; therefore, the hourly average threshold based 
on average ambient noise levels would be 65 dBA during daytime hours and 59 dBA during 
nighttime hours for the existing residences to the southeast and would be 67 dBA during daytime 
hours and 61 dBA during nighttime hours for all other receptors surrounding the site.  
 
Additionally, a generator room is shown on level B1 of the below-grade parking garage. Since the 
generator room would be located underground, noise levels generated by the emergency generator 
would be well shielded and below ambient conditions during monthly testing, which typically runs 
for one continuous hour. For all existing receptors, the noise level increase due to emergency 
generator noise would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA Ldn increase). 
 
Transformers ranging from 37.5 to 112.5 kVA are proposed at the building. For transformers up to 
1,000 kVA, noise levels up to 64 dB are generated at a distance of 1 meter (3.28 feet). Assuming up 
to three transformers run simultaneously, the combined noise level would be 69 dBA. Under worst-
case conditions, these units are assumed to run continuously during daytime and nighttime hours, 
generating day-night average noise level up to 75 dBA Ldn at a distance of 1 meter (3.28 feet). With 
no windows in the transformer room, which would be located along the southwestern façade, the 
building would provide about 20 dBA attenuation for surrounding receptors. Table 9 summarizes 
the noise levels generated at the property lines of the existing surrounding receptors by the ground-
level transformers, assuming 20 dBA attenuation. 
 
 
923 of 1252

--- page 924 ---
27 
 
TABLE 9 
Estimated Operational Noise Levels for Transformers Located on the 
Ground Level  
Receptor 
Distance from 
Center of 
Transformer 
Room 
Combined Leq 
from Three 
Transformers  
Combined Ldn 
Noise Level 
Increase, Ldn 
SE Residences 
145 feet 
< 20 dBAa 
22 dBAa 
0 dBA 
SW Commercial 
85 feet 
21 dBAa 
27 dBAa 
0 dBA 
NW Commercial 
220 feet 
< 20 dBAa 
< 20 dBAa 
0 dBA 
Future NE 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
265 feet 
< 20 dBAa 
< 20 dBAa 
N/Ab 
a Conservative 20 dBA noise level reduction from the mechanical screening and the elevation is assumed. 
b Future receptors would not be subject to a noise level increase since they do not currently exist. 
 
The City’s daytime and nighttime thresholds for operations occurring for more than 30 minutes in a 
given hour would not be exceeded by the ground-level transformers at the existing and future 
receptors in the immediate vicinity of the project site. All other electrical and pump rooms on the 
ground-level would generate noise levels lower than transformers and would also be located within 
rooms of the building. For all existing receptors, the noise level increase due to transformer noise 
would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA Ldn increase). 
 
The multi-split VRF condensing units located within the mechanical penthouse on level 5 would be 
for the ground-level commercial use and the office floors. While noise level information for these 
units were not available at the time of this study, VRF units for office buildings of this size would 
generate noise levels up to 66 dBA at a distance of 3 feet, while a grocery store of the size proposed 
by the applicant would include condensing units with noise levels of about 69 dBA at 10 feet. 
Exhaust fans for the ground-level commercial use are expected to produce noise levels of 55 to 65 
at a distance of 3 feet. When operating at full speed, noise levels from exhaust fans from the parking 
garage would be up to 76 dBA at a distance of 5 feet and up to 65 dBA at 5 feet when operating at 
35% speed. Typically, these types of fans would run at 20% speed, which would generate noise 
levels even lower; however, for purposes of studying worst-case scenario, full speed conditions are 
assumed.  
 
Under worst-case conditions, up to five office condensing units, two grocery store condensing units, 
two commercial exhaust fans, and a garage exhaust fan would operate simultaneously for a combined 
noise level of 85 dBA at 3 feet. These types of units would cycle on and off continuously over a 
given 24-hour period, and assuming all units running continuously, the day-night average noise level 
under worst-case conditions would be 91 dBA Ldn at 3 feet. 
 
Solar panels are also shown on the southeastern edge of the fifth level; however, this type of 
equipment would not generate noise levels audible at the project boundaries. 
 
The mechanical would be surrounded by the residential units to the northeast and by a parapet wall 
of about the same height as the building façade around the other three sides of the penthouse. It is 
assumed that the mechanical screen would be solid from base to top with no cracks or gaps but would 
924 of 1252

--- page 925 ---
28 
 
be open on the roof. In combination with the elevation above the ground, there would be a minimum 
attenuation of 20 dBA for existing receptors located on the ground level or second story. A minimum 
attenuation of 20 dBA would also be assumed for the future residential/commercial buildings 
northeast of the site since the proposed residential units on level five would break the line-of-sight 
to the future receptors. The existing residential building to the southeast is five stories tall. The partial 
shielding from the building façade and the mechanical screen would provide a minimum attenuation 
of 10 dBA for this residential building. Table 10 summarizes the hourly average and day-night 
average noise levels propagated from the level 5 mechanical penthouse to the property lines of the 
nearest surrounding receptors with direct line-of-sight to the mechanical penthouse. 
 
TABLE 10 
Estimated Operational Noise Levels for Equipment Located in the Level 5 
Mechanical Penthouse  
Receptor 
Distance from 
Center of 
Mechanical 
Penthouse 
Combined Leq 
from 
Mechanical 
Penthouse  
Combined Ldn 
Noise Level 
Increase, Ldn 
SE Residences 
190 feet 
39 dBAb 
45 dBAb 
0 dBA 
SW Commercial 
145 feet 
31 dBAa 
38 dBAa 
0 dBA 
NW Commercial 
180 feet 
29 dBAa 
36 dBAa 
0 dBA 
Future NE 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
205 feet 
28 dBAa 
35 dBAa 
N/Ac 
a Conservative 20 dBA noise level reduction from the mechanical screening, the elevation, and/or intervening residential 
units is assumed. 
b Conservative 10 dBA noise level reduction from the mechanical screening and building façade is assumed. 
c Future receptors would not be subject to a noise level increase since they do not currently exist. 
 
Assuming a minimum attenuation of 10 to 20 dBA, the equipment in the mechanical penthouse 
would not exceed the City’s hourly average noise levels during daytime or nighttime hours at the 
nearest surrounding existing and future receptors or the day-night average noise level at the property 
line. For all existing receptors, the noise level increase due to equipment in the mechanical penthouse 
would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA Ldn increase). 
 
The rooftop would include HVAC for the residential units. Noise levels generated by these types 
of units would be up to 62 dBA at 20 feet. Assuming up to five units operating simultaneously at 
any given time, hourly average noise levels would be up to 69 dBA Leq at a distance of 20 feet during 
daytime and nighttime hours. Under worst-case conditions with these units cycling on and off 
continuously over any given 24-hour period, the day-night average noise level under worst-case 
conditions would be 75 dBA Ldn at 20 feet. 
 
Table 11 summarizes the noise levels at the property lines of the surrounding land uses for noise 
generated at the rooftop equipment. Assuming these units would be set back at least 10 feet from the 
edge of the rooftop above the residential units, a minimum attenuation of 20 dBA would occur at the 
ground-level and two-story receptors. With no screening, the existing residential building to the 
southeast and the future residential/commercial buildings to the northeast would potentially have 
925 of 1252

--- page 926 ---
29 
 
direct line-of-sight to the rooftop equipment at the project site. No attenuation is applied to these 
receptors.  
 
TABLE 11 
Estimated Operational Noise Levels due to Rooftop Residential Equipment  
Receptor 
Distance from 
Center of Nearest 
Rooftop 
Equipment 
Noise Levels 
from Rooftop 
Equipment 
Rooftop 
Ldn 
Noise Level 
Increase, Ldn 
SE Residences 
125 feet 
53 dBAb 
60 dBAb 
1 dBA 
SW Commercial 
140 feet 
32 dBAa 
39 dBAa 
0 dBA 
NW Commercial 
130 feet 
33 dBAa 
39 dBAa 
0 dBA 
Future NE 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
125 feet 
53 dBAb 
60 dBAb 
N/Ac 
a Conservative 20 dBA noise level reduction from the mechanical screening and the elevation is assumed. 
b Conservatively, no attenuation is assumed since these residential receptors would potentially have direct line-of-sight 
to the rooftop equipment. 
 
The rooftop equipment would not exceed the City’s hourly average noise levels during daytime or 
nighttime hours at the nearest existing receptors or the day-night average noise level at the property 
line. For all existing commercial receptors, the noise level increase due to equipment on the rooftop 
would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA Ldn increase), while up to a 1 dBA Ldn would 
potentially occur at the existing residential land uses to the southeast. 
 
Truck Loading and Unloading 
 
The site plan shows the commercial loading zone and trash pickup area attached to the ground-
level retail portion of the building, with access along South B Street. This loading area would be 
shielded from the existing residential building to the southeast and the commercial uses to the 
southwest and northwest. The future residential/commercial uses to the northeast, however, would 
have direct line-of-sight to the loading zone, assuming the doors are open during deliveries. Trash 
pickup for the office uses are shown in the southern corner, which would have direct line-of-sight 
to both the residential uses to the southeast and the commercial uses to the southwest. 
 
For all loading and unloading activities at the grocery store use, truck maneuvering could take up 
to 15 minutes. Since the measured hourly average noise levels in the project vicinity exceeded the 
City’s thresholds in Table 7.30.040, the noise limit for all loading/unloading activities at the 
grocery store occurring for up to 15 minutes in any hour would be 5 dBA added to the average 
ambient levels during daytime hours only, which would be 72 dBA at the future 
residential/commercial receptors to the northeast. Trash pickup typically takes up to five minutes 
in a given hour, which means 10 dB would be added to the ambient levels. The threshold for trash 
pickup would be 75 dBA at the existing residences to the southeast and would be 77 dBA at the 
existing commercial uses to the southwest.  
 
Truck maneuvering noise would include a combination of engine, exhaust, and tire noise, as well 
as the intermittent sounds of back-up alarms and releases of compressed air associated with 
926 of 1252

--- page 927 ---
30 
 
truck/trailer air brakes. Heavy trucks, such as those used at grocery stores, typically generate 
maximum instantaneous noise levels of 70 to 75 dBA at a distance of 50 feet. Smaller medium-
sized trash trucks typically generate maximum noise levels of 60 to 65 dBA at 50 feet. The noise 
level of backup alarms can vary depending on the type and directivity of the sound, but maximum 
noise levels are typically in the range of 65 to 75 dBA at a distance of 50 feet.  
 
Assuming three heavy truck deliveries at the grocery store and one trash pickup at the grocery 
store in a 24-hour period, which would represent worst-case conditions, noise levels generated at 
the proposed grocery store loading zone would range from 54 to 69 dBA Leq, and the day-night 
average noise level would be 60 dBA Ldn at a distance of 50 feet. The future residential/commercial 
uses located northeast of the project site is approximately 105 feet from the center of the loading 
zone along South B Street. At this distance, hourly average noise levels would range from 48 to 
63 dBA Leq, and the day-night average noise level would be 54 dBA Ldn. These levels would not 
exceed ambient conditions or the thresholds established by the City during daytime hours. 
 
Assuming only one trash pickup at the office trash area, the hourly average noise levels would be 
54 dBA Leq at 50 feet, and the day-night average noise level would be 40 dBA Ldn. Table 12 
summarizes the noise levels due to trash pickup at the office trash area for the receptors with direct 
line-of-sight.  
 
TABLE 12 
Estimated Operational Noise Levels due to Trash Pickups 
Receptor 
Distance from 
Center of 
Nearest Trash 
Area 
Hourly 
Average Noise 
Levels from 
Trash Pickup  
Estimated Ldn 
Noise Level 
Increase, Ldn 
SE Residences 
95 feet 
49 dBA 
35 dBA 
0 dBA 
SW Commercial 
90 feet 
49 dBA 
35 dBA 
0 dBA 
 
The nearest existing receptors to the office trash pickup would not be exposed to truck 
maneuvering noise levels exceeding City thresholds. For all existing receptors with direct line-of-
sight, the noise level increase due to trash pick noise would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA 
Ldn increase). 
 
Total Combined Project-Generated Noise 
 
The operational noise levels produced by the proposed project combined (i.e., traffic, mechanical 
equipment, and truck loading/unloading activities) would result in up to a 2 dBA Ldn increase at 
the existing residential building along East 5th Avenue and less than 1 dBA Ldn at all other existing 
noise-sensitive receptors surrounding the project site. Therefore, the proposed project would not 
result in a substantial increase over ambient noise levels in the project vicinity. Further, operational 
noise levels would not exceed the City’s thresholds at the property lines or exceed ambient levels 
at the surrounding existing and future land uses. This is a less-than-significant impact. 
 
Mitigation Measure 1b: 
None required. 
 
927 of 1252

--- page 928 ---
31 
 
Impact 2: 
Exposure to Excessive Groundborne Vibration. Construction-related vibration 
levels would not exceed applicable vibration thresholds at nearby sensitive land 
uses. This is a less-than-significant impact. 
 
The construction of the project may generate perceptible vibration when heavy equipment or 
impact tools (e.g., jackhammers, hoe rams) are used. Construction activities would include 
demolition, site preparation work, foundation work, and new building framing and finishing. Pile 
driving equipment, which can cause excessive vibration, is not expected to be required for the 
proposed project. 
 
The California Department of Transportation recommends a vibration limit of 0.5 in/sec PPV for 
buildings structurally sound and designed to modern engineering standards, which typically 
consist of buildings constructed since the 1990s. Conservative vibration limits of 0.3 in/sec PPV 
has been used for buildings that are found to be structurally sound but where structural damage is 
a major concern (see Table 3 above for further explanation). For historical buildings or buildings 
that are documented to be structurally weakened, a cautious limit of 0.08 in/sec PPV is often used 
to provide the highest level of protection.  
 
One historical building is located in the vicinity of the project site: at 505 South B Street, which is 
approximately 150 feet from the nearest edge of the project site. This structure would be subject 
to the conservative 0.08 in/sec PPV threshold. All other buildings surrounding the project site 
would be subject to the conservative 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold. 
 
Table 13 presents typical vibration levels that could be expected from construction equipment at a 
distance of 25 feet. Project construction activities, such as drilling, the use of jackhammers, rock 
drills and other high-power or vibratory tools, and rolling stock equipment (tracked vehicles, 
compactors, etc.), may generate substantial vibration in the immediate vicinity. Jackhammers 
typically generate vibration levels of 0.035 in/sec PPV, and drilling typically generates vibration 
levels of 0.09 in/sec PPV at a distance of 25 feet.  
 
Vibration levels would vary depending on soil conditions, construction methods, and equipment 
used. Table 13 also summarizes the distances to the 0.08 in/sec PPV threshold for historical 
buildings and to the 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold for all other buildings. Since the historical building 
located at 505 South B Street is 150 feet from the project’s boundary, vibration levels would be at 
or below 0.03 in/sec PPV at this building, which would be well below the 0.08 in/sec PPV 
threshold. Therefore, this building would not be considered a sensitive receptor for construction 
vibration and will not be discussed further.  
 
 
 
928 of 1252

--- page 929 ---
32 
 
TABLE 13 
Vibration Source Levels for Construction Equipment 
Equipment 
PPV at 25 ft. 
(in/sec) 
Minimum Distance to 
Meet 0.08 in/sec PPV 
(feet) 
Minimum Distance to 
Meet 0.3 in/sec PPV (feet) 
Clam shovel drop 
0.202 
59 
18 
Hydromill (slurry 
wall) 
in soil 
0.008 
4 
1 
in rock 
0.017 
7 
2 
Vibratory Roller 
0.210 
61 
19 
Hoe Ram 
0.089 
28 
9 
Large bulldozer 
0.089 
28 
9 
Caisson drilling 
0.089 
28 
9 
Loaded trucks 
0.076 
24 
8 
Jackhammer 
0.035 
12 
4 
Small bulldozer 
0.003 
2 
<1 
Source:  Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment Manual, Federal Transit Administration, Office of Planning 
and Environment, U.S. Department of Transportation, September 2018, as modified by Illingworth 
& Rodkin, Inc., September 2022. 
  
Table 14 summarizes the vibration levels at each of the surrounding buildings in the project 
vicinity. Vibration levels are highest close to the source and then attenuate with increasing distance 
at the rate ൬𝐷𝐷𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟
𝐷𝐷
ൗ൰
1.1
, where D is the distance from the source in feet and Dref is the reference 
distance of 25 feet. While construction noise levels increase based on the cumulative equipment 
in use simultaneously, construction vibration levels would be dependent on the location of 
individual pieces of equipment. That is, equipment scattered throughout the site would not generate 
a collective vibration level, but a vibratory roller, for instance, operating near the project site 
boundary would generate the worst-case vibration levels for the receptor sharing that property line. 
Further, construction vibration impacts are assessed based on the potential for damage to buildings 
on receiving land uses, not at receptors at the nearest property lines. Therefore, the distances used 
to propagate construction vibration levels (as shown in Table 14), which are different than the 
distances used to propagate construction noise levels (as shown in Table 8), were estimated under 
the assumption that each piece of equipment from Table 13 was operating along the nearest 
boundary of the project site, which would represent the worst-case scenario. 
 
As shown in Table 14, all non-historical buildings surrounding the project site would be more than 
25 feet from the nearest boundary. Vibration levels at each of these buildings would be below 0.3 
in/sec PPV.  
 
Neither cosmetic, minor, or major damage would occur at historical or conventional buildings 
located 60 feet or more from the project site. At these locations, and in other surrounding areas 
where vibration would not be expected to cause cosmetic damage, vibration levels may still be 
perceptible. However, as with any type of construction, this would be anticipated and would not 
be considered significant, given the intermittent and short duration of the phases that have the 
highest potential of producing vibration (use of jackhammers and other high-power tools). By use 
of administrative controls, such as notifying neighbors of scheduled construction activities and 
scheduling construction activities with the highest potential to produce perceptible vibration during 
hours with the least potential to affect nearby businesses, perceptible vibration can be kept to a 
minimum.  
929 of 1252

--- page 930 ---
33 
 
In summary, the construction of the project would not generate vibration levels exceeding 0.08 
in/sec PPV at historic properties in the project vicinity and would not generate vibration levels of 
0.3 in/sec PPV at the nonhistorical buildings surrounding the project site. This would be considered 
a less-than-significant impact. 
 
TABLE 14 
Vibration Source Levels for Construction Equipment 
Equipment 
PPV (in/sec) Estimated at Nearest Building Façades Surrounding the Project 
Site  
Southeast 
Residential 
Buildings (85ft) 
Southwest 
Commercial 
Buildings (80ft) 
Northwest 
Commercial 
Buildings (85ft) 
Future Northeast 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
Buildings (90ft) 
Clam shovel drop 
0.053 
0.056 
0.053 
0.049 
Hydromill  
(slurry wall) 
in soil 
0.002 
0.002 
0.002 
0.002 
in rock 
0.004 
0.005 
0.004 
0.004 
Vibratory Roller 
0.005 
0.058 
0.005 
0.051 
Hoe Ram 
0.023 
0.025 
0.023 
0.022 
Large bulldozer 
0.023 
0.025 
0.023 
0.022 
Caisson drilling 
0.023 
0.025 
0.023 
0.022 
Loaded trucks 
0.020 
0.021 
0.020 
0.019 
Jackhammer 
0.009 
0.010 
0.009 
0.009 
Small bulldozer 
0.001 
0.001 
0.001 
0.001 
Source:  Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment Manual, Federal Transit Administration, Office of Planning 
and Environment, U.S. Department of Transportation, September 2018, as modified by Illingworth & 
Rodkin, Inc., September 2022.  
 
Mitigation Measure 2: 
None required. 
 
Impact 3: 
Excessive Aircraft Noise. The project site is located about 3.7 miles from the San 
Francisco International Airport. The noise environment attributable to aircraft is 
considered normally acceptable. This is a less-than-significant impact. 
  
The San Francisco International Airport is a public-use airport located approximately 3.7 miles 
northwest of the project site. According to the Comprehensive Airport Land Use Compatibility 
Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport,1 the project site lies well outside the 
65 dBA CNEL/Ldn noise contour (see Figure 2), and the required safe and compatible threshold 
for exterior noise levels would be at or below 65 dBA CNEL/Ldn for aircrafts. Therefore, the 
proposed project would be compatible with the exterior noise standards for aircraft noise.  
 
Assuming standard construction materials for aircraft noise below 60 dBA Ldn, the future interior 
noise levels resulting from aircraft would below 45 dBA Ldn. Therefore, future interior noise at the 
proposed building would be compatible with aircraft noise. This would be a less-than-significant 
impact. 
 
Mitigation Measure 3: 
None required. 
 
 
 
1  Ricondo & Associates, Inc. with Jacobs Consultancy and Clarion Associates, Comprehensive Airport Land Use 
Compatibility Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport, November 2012. 
930 of 1252

--- page 931 ---
34 
 
FIGURE 2 
2020 CNEL Noise Contours for San Francisco International Airport Relative to Project Site 
 
 
65 CNEL 
Project 
Site 
931 of 1252

--- page 932 ---
35 
 
Cumulative Impacts 
 
Cumulative noise impacts would include temporary construction noise from cumulative 
construction projects.  
 
A significant cumulative traffic noise impact would occur if two criteria are met: 1) if the 
cumulative traffic noise level increase was 3 dBA Ldn or greater for future levels exceeding the 
normally acceptable threshold; and 2) if the project would make a “cumulatively considerable” 
contribution to the overall traffic noise increase. A “cumulatively considerable” contribution 
would be defined as an increase of 1 dBA Ldn or more attributable solely to the proposed project. 
 
Cumulative and cumulative plus project ADT traffic volumes were included in the traffic study. 
When these volumes were compared to the existing ADT volumes, an increase of 2 dBA Ldn or 
less was calculated with and without the project, which would not be considered a “cumulatively 
considerable” contribution. Therefore, the project would not cause a significant cumulative noise 
increase at noise-sensitive uses in the project vicinity. 
 
The City of San Mateo has provided the following list of project sites located within 500 feet of 
the proposed 222 East 4th Avenue project site: 
 
• 445 South B Street – this project is located opposite South B Street from the project site 
and would take up the entire block. This project has not been approved. A Preliminary 
Planning Application has been submitted for this new mixed-use development project, but 
it has not yet been approved. The project proposes a seven-story 60-unit affordable housing 
building, a five-story office/retail building, and 128 parking spaces. Construction dates for 
this project have not been confirmed but due to the close proximity of the project site and 
the noise-sensitive receptors shared by both project sites (i.e., the existing residential 
receptors south of the project site and the existing commercial buildings to the north of the 
project site), a significant cumulative construction impact would potentially occur, 
exposing the nearby sensitive receptors to construction activities at both sites 
simultaneously or consecutively. 
 
• 180 East 3rd Avenue – this project is located in the southern corner of the East 3rd 
Avenue/South Ellsworth Avenue intersection and would be approximately 260 feet from 
the Draegers Mixed-Use project site. The project proposes the demolition of existing 
buildings and the construction of a three-story mixed-use building, consisting of ground-
level retail and office on the remaining floors. While this project has been approved, 
construction has not started. Since this project has been approved and would not share 
noise-sensitive receptors with direct line-of-sight to both project sites, this would not result 
in a cumulative construction impact. 
 
• Kiku Crossing and 5th Avenue Garage – this project is located northeast of the railroad 
tracks between East 4th Avenue and East 5th Avenue, approximately 400 feet from the 
Draegers Mixed-Use project site. This project consists of 225 affordable residential units 
in a seven-story building and five-level parking garage. This project is currently under 
932 of 1252

--- page 933 ---
36 
 
construction and will likely be completed before the Draegers project starts. This would 
not result in a cumulative construction impact. 
 
The existing receptors south and north of the project site would be considered sensitive receptors 
during construction activities at both Draegers Mixed-Use and 445 South B Street project sites, 
and construction activities could occur simultaneously or consecutively. However, the noise-
sensitive residential uses southeast of the project site would be more directly exposed to 
construction noise at the Draegers site than the 445 South B Street site. With the implementation 
of construction noise and vibration mitigation measures included in the individual projects, 
construction noise and vibration levels would be reduced as much as possible at all surrounding 
sensitive receptors during construction of each individual project. Therefore, the potential 
cumulative construction impact would be less-than-significant.  
 
 
933 of 1252

--- page 934 ---
37 
 
APPENDIX 
 
FIGURE A1 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-1, Tuesday, March 22, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
934 of 1252

--- page 935 ---
38 
 
FIGURE A2 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-1, Wednesday, March 23, 2022 
 
 
 
 
935 of 1252

--- page 936 ---
39 
 
FIGURE A3 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-1, Thursday, March 24, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
936 of 1252

--- page 937 ---
40 
 
FIGURE A4 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-2, Tuesday, March 22, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
937 of 1252

--- page 938 ---
41 
 
FIGURE A5 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-2, Wednesday, March 23, 2022 
 
 
 
 
938 of 1252

--- page 939 ---
42 
 
FIGURE A6 Daily Trend in Noise Levels at LT-2, Thursday, March 24, 2022 
 
 
939 of 1252

--- page 940 ---
October 2022 
 
 
SAN MATEO DRAEGER’S
TIA REPORT
222 EAST 4TH AVENUE, SAN MATEO, CA
940 of 1252

--- page 941 ---
Inside front cover  
Page Intentionally blank 
 
941 of 1252

--- page 942 ---
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA 
 222 East 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
 
Prepared for: 
 City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505 
 Oakland, CA 94612 
 510.839.1742 
 
 
Project Manager: 
 Anusha Musunuru, PhD 
 Senior Engineering Associate 
  
Project Principal: 
 Damian Stefanakis 
 Senior Principal Planner 
 
Project Analysts: 
Sophia Semensky 
Allison Woodworth 
Daniel Bowers 
Karen Phan 
 
Project Number 24837.009 
 
October 2022 
 
 
 
 
942 of 1252

--- page 943 ---
Page Intentionally blank 
 
943 of 1252

--- page 944 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Contents 
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................ v 
Project Trip Generation ....................................................................................................... v 
CEQA Analysis ..................................................................................................................... v 
Local Transportation Analysis ............................................................................................. v 
Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 1 
Project Description .............................................................................................................. 1 
Existing and Proposed uses ................................................................................................ 1 
CEQA Analysis ......................................................................................................................... 1 
Screening Criteria ................................................................................................................ 1 
VMT Impact Discussion ....................................................................................................... 2 
Local Transportation Analysis ................................................................................................. 7 
Scope of Study .................................................................................................................... 7 
Existing Conditions ............................................................................................................. 11 
Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions ............................................................................... 21 
Project Travel Demand ..................................................................................................... 24 
Baseline Plus Project Conditions ...................................................................................... 25 
Cumulative Conditions ..................................................................................................... 28 
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions ................................................................................. 31 
Additional Transportation Analysis ................................................................................... 34 
Technical Appendix .......................................................................................................... 41 
 
 
 
 
944 of 1252

--- page 945 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
  
Kittelson & Associates 
ii 
LIST OF FIGURES  
Figure 1: Project Location ........................................................................................................................................... 2 
Figure 2: Site Plan ......................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Figure 3: HQTA Map ..................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Figure 4: VMT per Employee Map (VMT Labeled) .................................................................................................... 4 
Figure 5: VMT per Employee Map (TAZ Labeled) ..................................................................................................... 5 
Figure 6: Study Intersections ........................................................................................................................................ 9 
Figure 7: Existing and Proposed Bicycle Network ................................................................................................... 13 
Figure 8: Existing Transit Service ................................................................................................................................ 16 
Figure 9: Existing and Baseline (Opening Year) Lane Configurations & Traffic Control at Study Intersections 18 
Figure 10: Existing Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes ....................................................... 19 
Figure 11: Existing Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes ....................................................... 20 
Figure 12: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes ......................... 22 
Figure 13: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes.......................... 23 
Figure 14: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes .... 26 
Figure 15: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes ..... 27 
Figure 16: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes ............................................... 29 
Figure 17: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes ................................................ 30 
Figure 18: Cumulative Conditions Plus Project Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes ........................... 32 
Figure 19: Cumulative Conditions Plus Project Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes ........................... 33 
 
 
 
 
 
945 of 1252

--- page 946 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
  
Kittelson & Associates 
iii 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 1: City of San Mateo Parking Requirements and Proposed Project Parking Spaces Calculation ............ 2 
Table 2: Level of Service Definition for Intersections ............................................................................................... 10 
Table 3: Existing Transit Service ................................................................................................................................. 15 
Table 4: Existing Conditions Intersection Operations Results ................................................................................. 17 
Table 5: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Intersection Operations Results .................................................... 21 
Table 6: Project Trip Generation ............................................................................................................................... 25 
Table 7: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results ............................... 25 
Table 8: Cumulative Conditions Intersection Operations Results .......................................................................... 28 
Table 9: Cumulative Plus Project Intersection Operations Results ......................................................................... 31 
Table 10: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Existing Conditions ......................................................................... 38 
Table 11: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Baseline (Opening Year) and Baseline Plus Project Conditions 39 
Table 12: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Cumulative and Cumulative Plus Project Conditions ................ 40 
 
 
 
946 of 1252

--- page 947 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
  
Kittelson & Associates 
iv 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Project Travel Demand Memorandum 
Appendix B: Existing Conditions Worksheets 
Appendix C: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Worksheets 
Appendix D: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Worksheets 
Appendix E: Cumulative Conditions Worksheets 
Appendix F: Cumulative Plus Project Conditions Worksheets 
Appendix G: 95th Percentile Queue Length Worksheets 
 
 
 
 
 
947 of 1252

--- page 948 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
  
Kittelson & Associates 
v 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
PROJECT TRIP GENERATION 
The proposed project is estimated to generate 169 vehicle trips (120 inbound, 49 outbound) during the 
weekday AM peak hour and 201 vehicle trips (70 inbound, 131 outbound) during the weekday PM peak 
hour. The existing Draeger’s supermarket is estimated to generate 304 vehicle trips (167 inbound, 137 
outbound) during the weekday AM peak hour and 432 vehicle trips (216 inbound, 216 outbound) during 
the weekday PM peak hour. The proposed project generates fewer AM and PM peak hour trips when 
compared to the AM and PM peak hour trips currently being generated by the existing Draeger’s 
supermarket.  
CEQA ANALYSIS 
This project is located within a half mile of the San Mateo Downtown Caltrain station, and it meets the 
detailed screening criteria requirements to be considered within a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) per the 
City VMT Guidelines. In meeting at least one of the five screening criteria, the proposed project can be 
presumed to result in a less than significant VMT impact and therefore is exempted from the detailed VMT 
analysis.  
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
Kittelson conducted the intersection level of service analysis at all five study intersections for Existing, 
Baseline (Opening Year), Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project, Cumulative, and Cumulative Plus Project 
Conditions for weekday AM and PM peak hour traffic conditions. Kittelson reviewed the site access and on-
site circulation based on the proposed site plan and the changes in the 95th percentile queue lengths 
caused by the proposed project at the study intersections. The results for all scenarios are presented in the 
report below. The proposed project would not cause any study intersections to exceed the level of service 
standard as specified in the City of San Mateo TIA guidelines in the existing, baseline (opening year), and 
cumulative conditions.1 Storage capacity is exceeded for the EB and SB approaches at 4th Ave and B St  in 
the AM and PM Cumulative and Cumulative Plus Project scenarios as well as the EB only approach at 4th 
Ave and Ellsworth in the Cumulative and Cumulative Plus Project PM scenarios . Although storage capacity 
is exceeded in these scenarios, queue lengths do not increase with respect to plus project scenarios when 
compared to no project scenarios.  Thus, the proposed project does not impact the status quo.  
 
  
 
1 City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, 2020. 
948 of 1252

--- page 949 ---
=e

Section 1
Introduction

949 of 1252


--- page 950 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
 Introduction 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 1 
INTRODUCTION 
This report documents the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) analysis findings and the local 
transportation analysis conducted for the proposed 222 E. 4th Avenue Draeger’s Site Mixed Use Project 
development in San Mateo, California (Figure 1).   
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
PROJECT LOCATION 
The proposed project is located at 222 East 4th Avenue and is approximately 0.4 miles from the San Mateo 
Caltrain downtown station. Vehicular access to the site is proposed on 5th Avenue, where the garage 
entry/exit is provided. In addition, pedestrian and bike access to the garage is through a shared lobby on 
the east by B Street. The residential lobby is provided midblock on the east by B Street, the office lobby is 
provided midblock on the west by Ellsworth Avenue, and retail entrance is provided on the north by 4th 
Avenue. Nearby land uses include residential, commercial/retail, recreational, and a hospital. San Mateo 
Central Park is located to the southwest of the site. The Project site is in downtown San Mateo and is zoned 
as Central Business District/Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use (CBD).  
EXISTING AND PROPOSED USES 
The existing site is the Draeger’s grocery store, consisting of 60, 965 SF. 
Lane Partners is proposing to replace the existing 60,965 square feet Draeger’s market located at 222 East 
4th Avenue with a 5-story, approximately 152,533 square feet mixed-use building with two levels of below 
grade parking. The building would consist of approximately 104,554 square feet of office space, 17,658 
square feet of retail space, and 8,997 square feet of residential space for 10 below-market-rate units at the 
lower income level. The retail floor would be located on the ground floor, the office space would be 
spread throughout the first four floors, and the residential space would be split between the ground floor 
(i.e., residential lobby/elevator) and the fifth floor living areas. The ground floor would also include 12,392 
square feet of covered parking area and two levels (89,519 square feet) below grade for a total of 221 
parking spaces. The Project site plan is shown in Figure 2. Regional access to the project is via State Route 
82 (El Camino Real), and US 101 via 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue.  Local access to the project site would be 
provided by 5th Avenue, 4th Avenue, Ellsworth Avenue, and B Street. 
 
 
 
950 of 1252

--- page 951 ---
© 2022 Microsoft Corporation © 2022 Maxar ©CNES (2022) Distribution Airbus DS 
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\009 - San Mateo Draeger's (222 E 4th Ave) TIA\report\figs\24837.009-Figures.dwg      Aug 29, 2022 - 5:07pm -  dbowers      Layout Tab: Project Location
Project Location
1
San Mateo Hayward Park Station Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
280
101
Site
4th Ave
3rd Ave
2nd Ave
5th Ave
6th Ave
7th Ave
8th Ave
9th Ave
B St
Laurel Ave
San Mateo Dr
Ellsworth Ave
B St
Claremont St
Delaware St
Railroad Ave
1st Ave
951 of 1252

--- page 952 ---
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\009 - San Mateo Draeger's (222 E 4th Ave) TIA\report\figs\24837.009-Figures.dwg      Aug 29, 2022 - 5:07pm -  dbowers      Layout Tab: Site Plan
Site Plan
2
San Mateo Hayward Park Station Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
952 of 1252

--- page 953 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
 Introduction 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 4 
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PLAN 
The project would implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan to encourage 
sustainable modes of transportation and reduce vehicle trips to and from the site. The TDM Plan is being 
developed by Steer Group as part of this project.  
SCOPE OF STUDY 
The purpose of this transportation analysis is to determine whether the proposed project would have 
transportation impacts, as defined by the City of San Mateo’s Traffic Impact Analysis Guidelines, 
developed in accordance with the City’s General Plan and the Governor’s Office of Planning and 
Research (OPR) requirements in July 2020. The analysis covers the following topics: 
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA) ANALYSIS 
Senate Bill (SB) 743 changed the way transportation studies are conducted in California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) documents. Specifically, SB 743 updated the way transportation impacts are measured 
for development projects, based on the number of daily trips and the distance traveled by those trips to 
their destinations (VMT). The technical advisory provided by the OPR specifically addresses the 
requirements of California SB 743 which mandated specific types of CEQA analysis of land use 
development and transportation projects effective July 1, 2020. The quantitative methodology, 
significance thresholds, and mitigation measures for conducting transportation analysis are based on VMT 
metrics.  
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
The City of San Mateo requires the analysis of unsignalized and signalized intersections, though it does not 
require the analysis of roadway segments, in compliance with the 2030 General Plan. Since a roadway 
segment’s capacity is generally controlled by the downstream intersection, an intersection analysis is 
sufficient for assessing a project’s impacts. Based on the discussions with City Staff and the approved scope 
of work, Kittelson evaluated the following under the local transportation analysis section:  
 
Site Access and On-Site Circulation 
o 
Vehicular Access 
o 
Pedestrian Access 
o 
Bicyclist Access 
o 
Transit Access 
o 
Emergency Vehicle Access 
 
Intersection Operations 
o 
Level of Service 
o 
Vehicle Queueing 
 
 
 
 
953 of 1252

--- page 954 ---
ae

Section 2
CEQA Analysis

954 of 1252


--- page 955 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
CEQA Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 1 
CEQA ANALYSIS 
SCREENING CRITERIA 
According to the technical advisory by OPR2 and the more specific City VMT/TIA Guidelines3, a project may 
require a detailed VMT analysis unless it meets at least one of the City’s five screening criteria: 
1. 
Small Projects – As per the OPR advisory and the City VMT/TIA Guidelines, projects that generate or 
attract fewer than 110 vehicle trips per day are classified as ‘small projects’. This proposed project 
has 10 residential units; 104,554 square feet of office space, and 17,658 square feet of retail space 
and generates 2,904 vehicle trips per day (Detailed trip generation is described in technical memo 
from Kittelson, dated August 22, 2022). The project generated trips are more than this screening 
threshold permits. The project does not meet this criterion.   
2. 
Affordable Housing – As per the guidelines, residential projects that consist entirely of 100 percent 
deed restricted affordable housing are presumed to have a less than significant impact. The 
proposed project is a mixed-use development consisting of residential, office, and retail use. The 
project does not meet this criterion.  
3. 
Local-Serving Retail and Public Services – As per the guidelines, projects that are locally serving retail 
with 50,000 square feet gross floor area or less are presumed to have a less than significant impact. 
The proposed project is a mixed use development and while the retail portion is only 17,658 square 
feet and therefore can be screened out, the building’s office use cannot. The project does not meet 
this criterion.  
4. 
High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) – As per the guidelines, projects located within a HQTA do not 
require a detailed VMT analysis. The proposed project is in a high-quality transit area as specified by 
the City’s HQTA map (Attachment A of the City’s TIA Guidelines) which is included here as Figure 3. 
This exemption from a detailed VMT analysis does not apply if any of the following are true about the 
project:  
a. Project has a floor area ratio (FAR) of less than 0.75 – false. The FAR for this proposed project 
development is 3.1. 
b. Project includes more parking for use by residents, customers, or employees of the project 
than required by the jurisdiction – false. The off-street parking requirement is determined by 
the Downtown Area Plan and the Downtown Specific Planning Area and Central Parking 
and Improvement District (CPID). Table 1 shows the minimum required amount of parking 
for the proposed project. The City requires 320 parking stalls based on the project 
characteristics. The project is providing 221 parking stalls.  
c. Project is inconsistent with the applicable Metropolitan Transportation Commissions’ (MTC) 
Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as determined by the City - false. The City has not 
indicated that this project is out of alignment with the MTC SCS.  
 
2 Technical Advisory on Evaluating Transportation Impacts in CEQA, Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, 
December 2018. 
3 City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, 2020. 
955 of 1252

--- page 956 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
CEQA Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 2 
d. Project replaces affordable units with a smaller number of moderate- or high-income 
residential units – false. This project is not replacing any affordable residential units. 
The proposed project meets the HQTA criterion and does not exhibit any of the characteristics which would 
exempt it from satisfying this screening. 
Table 1: City of San Mateo Parking Requirements and Proposed Project Parking Spaces Calculation 
Land use type 
San Mateo Off-Street Parking Requirements (per 
1,000 Gross Square Feet (SF) of Floor Area 
Proposed Project Parking Calcs 
Employee/Resident 
Visitor/Customer 
Total 
Total Units/Area 
Parking Spaces 
Office 
2.4  
0.2 
2.6 
104,554 SF 
273 
Retail 
1.4 
0.5 
1.9 
17,658 SF 
34 
Residential 
 
One-bedroom 
1.0 
0.2 
1.2 
8 
10 
Studio 
1.0 
0.2 
1.2 
2 
3 
Total 
320 
 
5. 
Project Located in Low VMT Areas – Projects that are proposed in areas that generate VMT below 
adopted City thresholds are presumed to have a less than significant VMT impact and thus can be 
screened out. The thresholds and project types that may be screened out are: 
a. Residential projects proposed in TAZs with total daily resident based VMT per capita that is 
15% less than the existing regional average for the County of San Mateo. This is a mixed-use 
project and does not meet this criterion – false. 
b. Office or employment portions of other non-residential uses with total daily employee based 
VMT per employee that is 15% less than the existing regional average for the County of San 
Mateo. The proposed mixed-use project is in Transportation Analysis Zone (TAZ) 3066 with 
VMT per Employee of 14.9. The San Mateo County has a regional average of 18.0 VMT per 
Employee with an impact threshold of 15.3 VMT per Employee (15% below regional average) 
for this mixed-use project – true. 
The proposed project is a mixed-use development that includes retail, office, and residential uses. While the 
nonresidential component of the proposed project screens out, the overall project does not screen out as 
the residential thresholds are not applicable for the mixed-use project.  
VMT IMPACT DISCUSSION 
A review of the OPR Technical Advisory and City TIA Guidelines has determined that the project meets the 
minimum of one of the five of the VMT screening criteria - it is in a High-Quality Transit Area. Therefore, the 
project is presumed to have a less than significant impact on VMT and is exempt from detailed VMT 
analysis.  
 
 
956 of 1252

--- page 957 ---
±
±
±
±
±
ß/
ϭϬϭ
x¿
ϴϮ
x¿
ϯϱ
x¿
ϵϮ
§¨¦
ϮϴϬ
ƵƌůŝŶŐĂŵĞ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
,ĂǇǁĂƌĚWĂƌŬ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ĞůŵŽŶƚ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\High Quality Transit Areas.mxd   Date: 7/13/2020
High-Quality Transit Areas
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
±
&DOWUDLQ6WDWLRQV
+LJK4XDOLW\7UDQVLW$UHD
&LW\%RXQGDU\
High-quality transit areas are within 
1/2 mile of an existing major transit 
stop or an existing stop along a high-
qualiity transit corridor
Figure 
957 of 1252

--- page 958 ---
ß/
ϭϬϭ
x¿
ϴϮ
x¿
ϯϱ
x¿
ϵϮ
§¨¦
ϮϴϬ



























































































































































































































































H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening.mxd   Date: 7/13/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
VMT per Employee Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
$YHUDJH907(PSOR\HHE\7$=
%HORZ7DUJHW907&RXQW\
$YHUDJH
7DUJHW907&RXQW\$YHUDJH
WR&RXQW\$YHUDJH
! $ERYH&RXQW\$YHUDJH
1R'DWD
&LW\%RXQGDU\
+LJK4XDOLW\7UDQVLW$UHD
3ULRULW\'HYHORSPHQW$UHD
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0
Figure 4
958 of 1252

--- page 959 ---
ß/
ϭϬϭ
x¿
ϴϮ
x¿
ϯϱ
x¿
ϵϮ
§¨¦
ϮϴϬ


























































































































































































































































H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 7/13/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
$YHUDJH907(PSOR\HHE\7$=
%HORZ7DUJHW907&RXQW\
$YHUDJH
7DUJHW907&RXQW\
$YHUDJHWR&RXQW\$YHUDJH
! $ERYH&RXQW\$YHUDJH
1R'DWD
&LW\%RXQGDU\
+LJK4XDOLW\7UDQVLW$UHD
3ULRULW\'HYHORSPHQW$UHD
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0
Figure 5
959 of 1252

--- page 960 ---
960 of 1252

Section 3
Local Transportation Analysis

A,

=
KT
SS

zw

S

ne
el]
L/
VT
ait

RAITT RE SLE Fatty? lan ka SPR ARIEQLS
2s KE UE PORE og Ste
s CA AH ee UF Ls QR TT
Sz, aes LP OKa GEIS WEA",

4G
Lo
E
—,

LY
NA<i

SY Y
xe4 RS
cla@i=: if 6

SUINRS KYA S ox = =a
VSPA SN

1h EN fl Seis 2 \ Rae
RD< 8

We g a, SO <Z ei ae PaaS
Ns: 4

es
Ae NCO S EL ¢ SARS W7


--- page 961 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 7 
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
SCOPE OF STUDY 
TIME PERIODS 
Traffic conditions at the study intersections were analyzed for the weekday a.m. (7-9 am) and p.m. peak (4-
6 pm) hours of adjacent street traffic. It is during these peak commute periods that the traffic demand on 
the roadway system is the greatest.  
Kittelson obtained the multimodal intersection turning movement counts at three of the five study 
intersections from the City for the weekday a.m. (7-9 am) and p.m. (4-6 pm) peak periods when the existing 
project site generated trips. These intersections included: E 5th Ave/Ellsworth Avenue, E 5th Ave/B Street, and 
E 4th Ave/B Street. The multimodal intersection turning movement counts for E 4th Ave/Ellsworth Ave and E 
5th Ave/Laurel Ave were obtained using the Streetlight data. These turning movement counts obtained 
from Streetlight data were adjusted so that the intersection entry and exit volumes match the adjacent 
counts collected at the other study intersections. After these checks were performed, it was observed that 
the counts obtained from Streetlight data at E 5th Ave/Laurel Ave seemed to be overestimated when 
compared to the adjacent intersections. Hence, counts were collected at this intersection of E 5th 
Ave/Laurel Ave and these collected counts were used for analyzing traffic conditions as part of this project. 
Transportation conditions were evaluated for the following scenarios:  
• 
Existing Conditions. Traffic volumes for the Existing Conditions were estimated using historical counts 
and Streetlight data, as collecting turning movement volumes at the study intersections was not 
recommended due to COVID-194 conditions. However, due to unavailability of accurate 
multimodal count data at E 5th Ave/Laurel Ave, Kittelson collected counts at this one intersection.   
• 
Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions. Baseline (Opening Year) traffic volumes were estimated by 
adding the projected volumes from approved, but not yet completed land use development and 
transportation projects to existing peak hour volumes for the project completion year. 
• 
Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions. Baseline (Opening Year) traffic volumes with the 
project were estimated by adding the additional traffic generated by the project to the 
approved/baseline (opening year) traffic volumes. Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions 
were evaluated relative to Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions to determine the effects the 
proposed project would have on the Baseline (Opening Year) roadway network.  
• 
Cumulative Conditions. Cumulative Conditions are represented by future traffic volumes on the 
roadway network. This scenario was estimated by adding a regional growth to existing traffic 
volumes between the existing year and future year (2040).  
• 
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions. Cumulative traffic volumes with the project are estimated by 
adding cumulative traffic volumes to the additional traffic generated by the project. Cumulative 
 
4 The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in shelter-in-place orders across the Bay Area and travel demand was significantly 
reduced across all modes. Travel patterns also changed substantially. These changes are the result of multiple factors such 
as school closures, restrictions on business operations, and an increased amount of telecommuting. 
961 of 1252

--- page 962 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 8 
Plus Project Conditions were evaluated relative to Cumulative Conditions to determine the effects 
the proposed project would have on the future roadway network.  
STUDY INTERSECTIONS 
The following five study intersections were selected for analysis and are shown in Figure 6. Intersections with 
an asterisk indicate counts obtained using Streetlight data. 
1. 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
2. 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
3. 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
4. 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
5. 
E 4th Avenue/ Ellsworth Avenue* 
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS) CRITERIA 
Level of service (LOS) describes the operating conditions experienced by motorists. LOS is a qualitative 
measure of the effect of a number of factors, including speed and travel time, traffic interruptions and 
delay, freedom to maneuver, driving comfort, and convenience. LOS A through LOS F covers the entire 
range of traffic operations that might occur. Motorists using a facility that operates at a LOS A experience 
very little delay, while those using a facility that operates at a LOS F will experience long delays. Intersection 
analyses for the five study intersections were conducted using the operational methodologies outlined in 
the Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition (HCM 6th Edition) methodology (Transportation Research Board, 
Washington, D.C., 2016), calculated with Synchro 11 software. 
Signalized Intersections 
The HCM procedure calculates a weighted average control delay in seconds per vehicle at a signalized 
intersection and assigns a level of service designation based upon the delay. The City of San Mateo level of 
service standard is mid-LOS D (delay of 45 seconds) or better for all signalized study intersections. 
Unsignalized Intersections 
The HCM methodology calculates a weighted average control delay in seconds per vehicle for each 
controlled intersection leg and for the intersection. For two-way stop-controlled intersections, the LOS for 
the worst approach is used as the LOS performance measure. The City of San Mateo does not have a LOS 
standard for unsignalized intersections as specified in the 2030 General Plan. The City adopted 
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines in August 2020 to include LOS standards for unsignalized 
intersections. According to the City of San Mateo standard, unsignalized intersections should maintain a 
LOS no worse than LOS E.  
Table 2 presents the relationship of average delay to level of service for both signalized and unsignalized 
intersections. 
 
 
 
 
 
962 of 1252

--- page 963 ---
© 2022 Microsoft Corporation © 2022 Maxar ©CNES (2022) Distribution Airbus DS 
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\009 - San Mateo Draeger's (222 E 4th Ave) TIA\report\figs\24837.009-Figures.dwg      Aug 30, 2022 - 12:10pm -  dbowers      Layout Tab: Study_Ints
Study Intersections
6
San Mateo Hayward Park Station Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
280
101
Site
4th Ave
3rd Ave
2nd Ave
5th Ave
6th Ave
7th Ave
8th Ave
9th Ave
B St
Laurel Ave
San Mateo Dr
Ellsworth Ave
B St
Claremont St
Delaware St
Railroad Ave
1st Ave
1
3
5
2
4
963 of 1252

--- page 964 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 10 
Table 2: Level of Service Definition for Intersections 
Signalized Intersection 
  
LOS 
  
Description of Traffic Conditions 
Unsignalized Intersection 
Average Delay Per 
Vehicle (Seconds) 
Average Delay Per 
Vehicle (Seconds) 
≤10.0 
A 
Free flowing. Most vehicles do not have to 
stop. 
≤10.0 
>10.0 and ≤20.0 
B 
Minimal delays. Some vehicles have to stop, 
although waits are not bothersome. 
>10.0 and ≤15.0 
>20.0 and ≤35.0 
C 
Acceptable delays. Significant numbers of 
vehicles have to stop because of steady, 
high traffic volumes. Still, many pass without 
stopping. 
>15.0 and ≤25.0 
>35.0 and ≤55.0 
D 
Tolerable delays. Many vehicles have to 
stop. Drivers are aware of heavier traffic. 
Cars may have to wait through more than 
one red light. Queues begin to form, often 
on more than one approach. 
>25.0 and ≤35.0 
>55.0 and ≤80.0 
E 
Significant delays. Cars may have to wait 
through more than one red light. Long 
queues form, sometimes on several 
approaches. 
>35.0 and ≤50.0 
>80.0 
F 
Excessive delays. Intersection is jammed. 
Many cars have to wait through more than 
one red light, or more than 60 seconds. 
Traffic may back up into “up-stream” 
intersections. 
>50.0 
Source: Transportation Research Board, Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition (Washington D.C., 2016) 
GENERAL PLAN LOS POLICY STANDARD 
Per the City’s General Plan Circulation Element Policy C 2.7 (Section E), all projects are required, at a 
minimum, to pay a transportation mitigation fee. The transportation mitigation fee is used to fund planned 
transportation improvements that are identified in the City of San Mateo Traffic Mitigation Program. The 
cost of the off-site improvements may be reimbursed by the City if a reimbursement program is established 
through the timeframe of the City of San Mateo’s current Traffic Mitigation Program or at the time when the 
improvement was initially scheduled. In addition to paying the transportation impact fee, a development 
project may be required to fund off-site circulation improvements which are needed as a result of project 
generated traffic if:  
Signalized Intersections 
a) The level of service at the intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average delay of more than 45 
seconds) when the project traffic is added, and 
b) An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the base year conditions 
experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and 
c) The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City Capital 
Improvement Program from the date of application approval.  
964 of 1252

--- page 965 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 11 
Unsignalized Intersections 
a) The level of service at the intersection drops from LOS E or better to LOS F (average delay of more 
than 50 seconds) when the project traffic is added, and 
b) An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the base year conditions 
experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and 
c) The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City Capital 
Improvement Program from the date of application approval.  
Transportation studies typically evaluate whether unsignalized intersections are functioning adequately and 
whether signalization is warranted using the peak-hour volume signal warrant described in the California 
MUTCD.  
EXISTING CONDITIONS 
ROADWAY NETWORK 
Regional access to the project is via State Route 82 (El Camino Real), and US 101 via 4th Avenue and 5th 
Avenue. 
State Route 82 (El Camino Real) is a four-to six lane state highway in California, serving as a major north-
south corridor in the Peninsula. It extends from Interstate 880 in San Jose at the south end to Interstate 280 in 
San Francisco at the north end. It runs parallel to the Caltrain line along much of the route. Access to and 
from the project study area is provided via signalized intersections at 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue. 
US 101 is a eight-to ten lane state highway in California, serving as the primary coastal route providing 
access to the San Francisco Bay Area. It is also the primary commuting route between San Francisco and 
San Jose. Access to and from the project study area is provided via interchanges at 3rd Avenue and 4th 
Avenue to the northeast of the project site.  
4th Avenue is an east-west, three to four-lane arterial roadway extending from Dartmouth Road on the 
west and transitioning into J Hart Clinton Drive in the east after crossing US 101. Arterial roads link residential 
and commercial districts and serve shorter through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, 4th 
Avenue has three to four lanes. The road is directly adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide 
direct access to the project site.  
5th Avenue is an east-west, two to three-lane arterial roadway extending from Virginia Avenue on the west 
and transitioning into Amphlett Boulevard in the east. Arterial roads link residential and commercial districts 
and serve shorter through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, 5th Avenue has two lanes. The 
road is directly adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide direct access.  
B Street is a north-south, two-lane collector roadway extending from Tilton Ave on the north and 
transitioning into South Boulevard on the south. Collector roads link arterial roads to local roads and serve 
some through traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, B Street has two lanes. The road is directly 
adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide direct access.  
Ellsworth Avenue is a north-south, two-lane collector roadway extending from Bellevue Avenue on the 
north to 5th Avenue on the south. Collector roads link arterial roads to local roads and serve some through 
traffic needs. In the vicinity of the project site, 5th Avenue has two lanes. The road is directly adjacent to 
the project site and is proposed to provide direct access.  
965 of 1252

--- page 966 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 12 
PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES AND AMENITIES 
Pedestrian facilities consist of sidewalks, crosswalks, and pedestrian signals at signalized intersections. In the 
project vicinity, sidewalks exist along both sides of 4th Avenue, 5th Avenue, B Street, and one side of 
Ellsworth Avenue through the site, providing pedestrian access to and from the project site. Marked 
crosswalks with pedestrian signal heads and push buttons are provided at the B Street/4th Avenue, 
Ellsworth Avenue/4th Avenue, and B Street/5th Avenue intersections. The overall network of sidewalks and 
crosswalks in the study area has excellent connectivity and provides pedestrians with safe routes to 
maneuver.  
BICYCLE FACILITIES AND AMENITIES 
Bicycle facilities are defined by the following four classes5: 
 
Class I (Multi-use Path) – Provides a completely separated facility designed for the exclusive use of 
bicyclists and pedestrians with crossing points minimized. 
 
Class II (Bike Lane) – Provides a restricted right-of-way designated lane for the exclusive or semi-
exclusive use of bicycles with through travel by motor vehicles or pedestrians prohibited, but with 
crossflows by pedestrians and motorists permitted. 
 
Class III (Bike Route/Bicycle Boulevard) – Bike route provide signage and permanent markings on 
low-stress roadways to increase driver awareness of people biking. No exclusive right of way is 
provided. Bicycle boulevards prioritize bicycle through-travel and use traffic calming to slow vehicle 
traffic and maintain low motor vehicle volumes. These routes are often applied on quiet streets and 
through residential neighborhoods.6  
 
Class IV (Separated Bike Lane) – Provides a restricted right-of-way designated lane for the exclusive 
use of bicyclists that is separated by a vertical element to provide further separation from motor 
vehicle traffic. 
The existing and proposed7 bicycle routes within the study area are described below. The existing bicycle 
network is shown in Figure 7.  
 
B Street – There are currently no bicycle facilities provided on B Street through the San Mateo central 
business district. A buffered bike lane (Class II) is proposed along B Street from 5th Avenue south until the 
road transitions into South Boulevard.   
5th Avenue – There are currently no bicycle facilities provided on 5th Avenue through the San Mateo Central 
Business District. The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes upgrading the corridor from Dartmouth Road to 
Claremont Street to a bike lane (Class II) and Claremont Street to Amphlett Boulevard to a bicycle 
boulevard (Class III).  
3rd Avenue – There are currently no bicycle facilities provided on 3rd Avenue through the San Mateo 
Central Business District. Notably, bike lanes exist in both directions west of Dartmouth Road, but they are 
not connected to the central business district. The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes making that 
connection from Dartmouth Road to El Camino Real with a bike lane (Class II) and El Camino Real to the 
US-101 interchange to a separated bike lane (Class IV).  
 
5 As detailed in Chapter 1000 of the Highway Design Manual (Caltrans, 2015). 
6 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan (2020), https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3944/Bicycle-Master-Plan-2020 
7 As proposed in City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, 2020.  
966 of 1252

--- page 967 ---
Layout Tab: Bike Network

H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAS\009 - San Mateo Draeger’s (222 E 4th Ave) TIA\report\figs\24837.009-Figures_vi.dwq Sep 26, 2022 - 11:28am - kphan

San Mateo Hayward Park Station Transportation Impact Analysis

Legend: 4
—— Existing Bike Lane (Class I) Proposed Separated Bite Lane (Class) === Proposed Bike Lane (Class II) Existing and Proposed Figure
=== Proposed Buffered Bike Lane (Class II) Proposed Bicycle Boulevard (Class III) Bicycle Network 7
KITTELSON

& ASSOCIATES

967 of 1252



--- page 968 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 14 
Laurel Avenue – There is currently a Class II bike lane provided south of 5th Avenue on Laurel Avenue. This is 
notable because it is the only current existing bicycle infrastructure in close proximity to the site. The 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan does not propose any upgrades or changes to the existing configuration. 
TRANSIT SERVICE 
The existing transit service to the study area is provided by the San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) 
and Caltrain.  
SamTrans Service 
The project site has five bus routes nearby (Route 397, 250, 292, 295, and ECR), operated by SamTrans with 
the nearest bus stops located at the intersections of 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue and 4th Avenue/San 
Mateo Drive. Three additional bus routes (school-day only) Route 53, 55, and 59 operate in the vicinity of 
the project site. The bus routes that provide the peak-hour services near the project site are described in 
Table 3 and are shown in Figure 8. Access to transit facilities will not change with the proposed site plan.   
Caltrain Service 
Commuter rail service between San Francisco and Gilroy is provided by Caltrain. The project site is located 
approximately 0.4 miles away from the San Mateo Downtown Caltrain Station. Currently, Caltrain provides 
northbound and southbound service at this station at a half-hour frequency during the weekday and 
weekend AM and PM commute hours, midday, and at nights. Per the City of San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Transit-Oriented Development Plan8, the proposed project site is an ideal location for a transit village.  
 
 
 
8San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan, 2005. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1899/Rail-Corridor-
Transit-Oriented-Developme , Accessed 2022. 
968 of 1252

--- page 969 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 15 
Table 3: Existing Transit Service  
Operator 
Route 
Description 
Operating Hours 
Peak-
Hour 
Headway 
Closest Bus Stop 
SamTrans 
53 
Borel Middle 
School – 
Peninsula/ 
Humboldt 
(School-day only) 
7:30 AM – 8:00 
AM, 
1:00 PM – 1:30 PM 
(W), and 3:00 PM 
– 3:30 PM 
(M,T,TH,F) 
N/A 
3rd 
Avenue/Delaware 
Street 
SamTrans 
55 
Borel Middle 
School – Clark/El 
Camino Real 
(School-day only) 
7:30 AM – 8:00 
AM, 
1:00 PM – 1:30 PM 
(W), and 3:00 PM 
– 3:30 PM 
(M,T,TH,F) 
N/A 
4th Avenue/El 
Camino Real 
SamTrans 
59 
Aragon High 
School – 
Hillsdale/Norfolk  
(School-day only) 
7:30 AM – 8:15 
AM, 
3:45 PM – 4:15 PM 
(M), 3:00 PM – 
3:30 PM (T,TH), 
and 4:00 PM – 
4:30 PM (W,F) 
N/A 
4th Avenue/Ellsworth 
Avenue 
SamTrans 
250 
5th/El Camino - 
College of San 
Mateo 
5:30 AM – 11:00 
PM 
30 
minutes 
4th Avenue/San 
Mateo Drive 
SamTrans 
292 
San Francisco – 
Hillsdale Mall – 
Serves SF Airport  
24 hours  
30 
minutes  
3rd 
Avenue/Delaware 
Street  
 
SamTrans 
295 
San Mateo 
Caltrain – 
Redwood City 
Transit Center 
6:30 AM – 5:45 PM 
120 
minutes 
4th Avenue/Ellsworth 
Avenue 
SamTrans 
397 
San Francisco – 
Palo Alto Transit 
Center – Serves 
SF Airport 
12:45 AM – 6:30 
AM 
60 
minutes  
2nd Avenue/El 
Camino Real 
 
SamTrans 
ECR 
El Camino Real – 
Palo Alto Transit 
Center to Daly 
City BART Station  
24 hours  
15 
minutes  
2nd Avenue/El 
Camino Real 
 
Caltrain 
- 
Northbound: 
Gilroy to San 
Francisco 
5:30 AM – 12:15 
AM 
30 
minutes 
San Mateo Station 
Caltrain 
- 
Southbound: San 
Francisco to 
Gilroy 
5:30 AM – 12:40 
AM 
30 
minutes 
San Mateo Station 
 
 
 
969 of 1252

--- page 970 ---
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\009 - San Mateo Draeger's (222 E 4th Ave) TIA\report\figs\24837.009-Figures.dwg      Aug 29, 2022 - 5:06pm -  dbowers      Layout Tab: Existing Transit Services
Existing Transit Services
8
San Mateo Hayward Park Station Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
Site
Legend:
ECR
Route 397
Route 55
Route 250
4th Ave
3rd Ave
2nd Ave
5th Ave
6th Ave
7th Ave
8th Ave
B St
Laurel Ave
San Mateo Dr
Ellsworth Ave
B St
Claremont St
Delaware St
Railroad Ave
1st Ave
El Camino Real
9th Ave
Route 59
Route 53
Route 292
Route 295
970 of 1252

--- page 971 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 17 
EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS 
The nearest fire station (San Mateo Fire Department Station #21) is located approximately 0.2 miles west of 
the project site at 120 S Ellsworth Ave. The proposed plans indicate that the bulb outs at each intersection 
surrounding the project site can accommodate the turning radius of a fire truck.  
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE 
The estimated traffic volumes due to COVID-19 conditions for four of the study intersections and collected 
traffic counts at Laurel Avenue/5th Avenue, lane configurations, and traffic controls for each study 
intersection were used to assess the Existing Conditions LOS and delay. The projected turning movement 
volumes for each peak hour under Existing Conditions are provided in Figure 10 and Figure 11. Detailed 
calculation worksheets for the Existing Conditions are provided in Appendix B. These delay and LOS values 
can be compared to the City of San Mateo thresholds outlined in the Circulation Element of the 2030 
General Plan, discussed in the previous section. 
As mentioned in the previous section, intersection analyses for the four study intersections were conducted 
using the operational methodologies outlined in the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM)6th Edition 
methodology, calculated with Synchro 11 software. 
Table 4 demonstrates that all intersections operate to the City’s standards under existing conditions for both 
the AM and PM peak hours. 
Table 4: Existing Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
# 
Location 
Control 
AM 
PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
TWSC 
15.1 
C 
15.3 
C 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
TWSC 
12.2 
B 
12.7 
B 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
14.2 
B 
14.9 
B 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
9.7 
A 
9.5 
A 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
Signal 
10.1 
B 
12.4 
B 
Notes: Bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for 
Signalized intersections); TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of 
Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson & 
Associates, 2022 
 
 
 
971 of 1252

--- page 972 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 18 
Figure 9: Existing and Baseline (Opening Year) Lane Configurations and Traffic Control at Study Intersections 
 
972 of 1252

--- page 973 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 19 
Figure 10: Existing Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
973 of 1252

--- page 974 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 20 
Figure 11: Existing Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
974 of 1252

--- page 975 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 21 
BASELINE (OPENING YEAR) CONDITIONS 
This section presents Baseline (Opening Year) traffic conditions, which are defined as conditions just prior to 
the completion of the proposed project. Traffic volumes for the Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions 
comprise volumes from existing traffic counts and traffic generated by other approved developments in 
the project vicinity. 
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK 
The Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions analysis assumes the same lane configuration and traffic control at 
all the study intersections as the existing conditions, as shown in Figure 9. 
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE 
Traffic volumes for the Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions were calculated using the existing estimated 
traffic volumes, shown in Figure 10 and Figure 11, plus the traffic volumes generated by new developments 
within the site vicinity. Through conversations with the city, the new developments added to the existing 
volumes are as follows:  
 
406 E 3rd Avenue Office & Residential Mixed-Use Development 
 
480 E 4th Avenue Residential Development 
 
405 E 4th Avenue (mixed-use office and residential) 
The projected turning movement volumes for each peak hour under Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions 
are provided in Figure 12 and Figure 13. Table 5 shows the Baseline (Opening Year) intersection operations 
for the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Baseline (Opening 
Year) Conditions are provided in Appendix C. All intersections operate to the City’s standards under 
Baseline (Opening Year) conditions under both the AM and PM peak hours. 
Table 5: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
# 
Location 
Control 
 AM 
PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
TWSC 
13.3 
B 
13.0 
B 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
TWSC 
11.3 
B 
11.2 
B 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
14.3 
B 
15.3 
B 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
9.7 
A 
10.2 
B 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
Signal 
7.1 
A 
9.2 
A 
Notes: Bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for 
Signalized intersections); TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of 
Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson & 
Associates, 2022 
 
 
 
975 of 1252

--- page 976 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 22 
Figure 12: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
976 of 1252

--- page 977 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 23 
Figure 13: Baseline (Opening Year) Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
977 of 1252

--- page 978 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 24 
PROJECT TRAVEL DEMAND 
TRIP GENERATION 
Trip generation is a key consideration for determining local effects of the project on the transportation 
network. Trip generation rates published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation 
Manual 11th Edition were used to estimate the number of trips the mixed-use proposed project would 
generate. ITE trip estimates are tied to specific land use codes. The ITE land use codes found to be most 
applicable to the Project are listed below.  
• 
Supermarket (ITE 850) 
• 
General Office Building (ITE 710) 
• 
Affordable Housing (ITE 223) 
In addition, this Project is assumed to be in the ‘Dense Multi-Use Urban’ context, considered by ITE to be an 
area that has diverse and interacting complementary land uses with good pedestrian connectivity, and 
convenient and frequent transit service. This is consistent with the Transit Oriented Development overlay 
and CBD zoning for the project site for which the San Mateo Municipal code promotes mixed-uses and 
pedestrian activity.  
As summarized in Table 6, the proposed project is estimated to generate 169 vehicle trips (120 inbound, 49 
outbound) during the weekday AM peak hour and 201 vehicle trips (70 inbound, 131 outbound) during the 
weekday PM peak hour. The existing Draeger’s supermarket is estimated to generate 304 vehicle trips (167 
inbound, 137 outbound) during the weekday AM peak hour and 432 vehicle trips (216 inbound, 216 
outbound) during the weekday PM peak hour. The proposed project generates less AM and PM peak hour 
trips when compared to the AM and PM peak hour trips currently being generated by the existing 
Draeger’s supermarket.  
TRIP DISTRIBUTION AND ASSIGNMENT 
The vehicle trip distribution assumptions are based on the existing counts and proximity to the major 
arterials, state routes, and freeways. As noted above, the proposed project would generate less peak hour 
trips with a reduction of 135 trips in the morning peak hour and 231 trips in the afternoon peak hour when 
compared to the trips generated from the existing site. The driveways for the existing site are situated on 
Ellsworth Avenue, and the driveway for the proposed project site is situated on 5th Avenue. Vehicle traffic 
going to/from the existing and proposed project site are distributed at each intersection according to the 
turning movement proportions consistent with the existing counts and the vehicle trip distribution 
percentages are determined for AM and PM peak hour. The complete project travel demand 
memorandum submitted to the City is provided in Appendix A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
978 of 1252

--- page 979 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 25 
Table 6: Project Trip Generation 
Land Use 
Size 
Weekday 
Daily Trips 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Proposed Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
17.6 KSF 
1,891  
48 
40 
88 
82 
82 
164 
Office Space 
104.7 KSF 
1,208 
77 
11 
88 
15 
76 
91 
Affordable Housing 
10 DU 
38 
1 
4 
5 
2 
2 
4 
Internal Capture 
 
-233 
-6 
-6 
-12 
-11 
-11 
-22 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-18 
-18 
-36 
Total Proposed Project 
Trips 
 
2,904 
120 
49 
169 
70 
131 
201 
Existing Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
61 KSF 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
284 
284 
568 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-68 
-68 
-136 
Total Existing Trips 
 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
216 
216 
432 
Net New Project Trips 
 
-3,645 
-47 
-88 
-135 
-146 
-84 
-231 
Updated square footage for the retail portion of the proposed project from 104.7 KSF to 104.5 KSF did not change the proposed project trips generated. 
BASELINE PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE 
Traffic volumes for the Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions were developed by combining the 
Baseline estimated traffic volumes with the project only volumes. The resulting Baseline Plus Project turning 
movement volumes are shown in Figure 14 and Figure 15. Table 7 shows the Baseline Plus Project 
intersection operations for the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. Detailed calculation worksheets are 
provided in Appendix D. All intersections operate to the City’s standards under Baseline Plus Project 
conditions under both the AM and PM peak hours. 
Table 7: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
# 
Location 
Control 
AM 
PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
TWSC 
14.4 
B 
14.3 
B 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
TWSC 
11.7 
B 
11.9 
B 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
14.6 
B 
15.6 
B 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
9.7 
A 
10.3 
B 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
Signal 
7.1 
A 
9.2 
A 
Notes: Bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for 
Signalized intersections); TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of 
Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson & 
Associates, 2022 
 
 
979 of 1252

--- page 980 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 26 
Figure 14: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
980 of 1252

--- page 981 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 27 
Figure 15: Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes  
 
981 of 1252

--- page 982 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 28 
CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS 
This section presents the anticipated Cumulative conditions for the study intersections for the year 2040 and 
the effect the addition of the project trips would have on them. 
LAND USE DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION NETWORK CHANGES 
The C/CAG San Mateo County Travel Demand Model was used to develop the future volume forecast for 
Cumulative Conditions. The model includes future development throughout the region. The 2040 
cumulative forecasts are consistent with regional growth totals projected by the Association of Bay Area 
Governments (ABAG) Plan Bay Area9. Therefore, the traffic forecasts reflect traffic reflecting both growth in 
222 East 4th Avenue mixed use project and increases in traffic volumes on State Route 82 and US 101 due to 
regional growth. Base year (Year 2019) and future year (Year 2040) forecasts were extracted from the 
model and linearly interpolated to develop growth between the estimated existing traffic counts (2019) 
and the current model horizon year (2040). The intersection lane configurations under cumulative 
conditions were assumed to be the same as described under the existing conditions.  
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE 
The projected turning movement volumes for each peak hour under Cumulative Conditions are provided 
in Figure 16 and Figure 17. Based on these volumes and lane configurations, the cumulative operations at 
the study intersections are shown in Table 8. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Cumulative Conditions 
are provided in Appendix E. All intersections operate to the City’s standards under Cumulative conditions 
under both the AM and PM peak hours. 
 
Table 8: Cumulative Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
# 
Location 
Control 
AM 
PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
TWSC 
13.7 
B 
13.5 
B 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
TWSC 
11.5 
B 
11.7 
B 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
11.5 
B 
14.1 
B 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
10.8 
B 
11.5 
B 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
Signal 
7.6 
A 
10.7 
B 
Notes: Bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for 
Signalized intersections); TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of 
Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson & 
Associates, 2022 
 
 
 
 
9 https://mtc.ca.gov/our-work/plans-projects/plan-bay-area-2040 
982 of 1252

--- page 983 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 29 
Figure 16: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
983 of 1252

--- page 984 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 30 
Figure 17: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
984 of 1252

--- page 985 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 31 
CUMULATIVE PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
This section discusses the effect of proposed project on traffic operations under Cumulative Conditions. 
Traffic volumes for the Cumulative Plus Project Conditions were developed using the same additive 
approach used for the Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project volumes. 
INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE 
Based on these volumes and lane configurations, the Cumulative Plus Project volumes are shown in 
Figure 18 and Figure 19 and the operations at the study intersections are shown in Table 9. Detailed 
calculation worksheets for the Cumulative Plus Project Conditions are provided in Appendix F. Based on the 
significance criteria previously described the proposed project would not cause operational deficiencies at 
any of the study intersections.  
 
Table 9: Cumulative Plus Project Intersection Operations Results 
# 
Location 
Control 
AM 
PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
TWSC 
15.0 
C 
15.0 
C 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
TWSC 
12.0 
B 
12.3 
B 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
11.9 
B 
14.8 
B 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
Signal 
11.0 
B 
11.7 
B 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
Signal 
7.6 
A 
10.7 
B 
Notes: Bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for 
Signalized intersections); TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of 
Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson & 
Associates, 2022 
 
 
985 of 1252

--- page 986 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 32 
Figure 18: Cumulative Conditions Plus Project Peak Hour (AM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
986 of 1252

--- page 987 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 33 
Figure 19: Cumulative Conditions Plus Project Peak Hour (PM) Turning Movement Volumes 
 
987 of 1252

--- page 988 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 34 
ADDITIONAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
This section describes additional transportation analysis related to site access and circulation of the 
proposed project based on a review of the proposed site plan. This section includes analysis of the 
following characteristics and scenarios: 
 
Vehicular access and on-site circulation 
o 
Vehicle parking 
o 
Driveway sight distance 
 
Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Transit access 
 
Loading zone and garbage truck circulation and access 
 
Emergency vehicle access 
 
95th percentile queue analysis 
 
The analysis in the following sections, while informed by adopted State and local standards, is driven by 
professional judgement. Citations are provided where applicable and available. References to the 
proposed project characteristics and geometric features are per the most recent site plan published 
February 2022.10 
VEHICULAR ACCESS AND ON-SITE CIRCULATION 
Site access and on-site circulation were evaluated using commonly accepted transportation design, 
planning principles and professional judgment. The site access and circulation were evaluated to 
determine the adequacy of site’s driveways with regard to traffic volumes, delays, vehicle queues, 
geometric design, site distance, and truck access. In general, the site plan shows adequate site access at 
the project driveways and circulation within the site.    
The proposed project would replace the existing Draeger’s market with a mixed-use building. The project 
proposes to construct a parking garage with a 24 ft wide driveway fronting the north side of 5th Avenue. 
The drive aisle in the garage level would be 24 ft wide, which is adequate for two-way circulation of 
vehicular traffic and complies with the width requirement for two-way turning aisles or ramps.  
In detail, the project proposes to construct a three-level parking garage with ground floor including 12,392 
square feet of covered parking area and two levels (89,519 square feet) below grade for a total of 221 
parking spaces. Vehicle parking will include a mix of compact, standard, accessible (standard), accessible 
(van), and EV charging stations. Angled parking will be retained along the project frontage on Ellsworth 
Avenue and 4th Avenue. There is angled on-street parking on the south side on 5th Avenue which is being 
restriped to parallel stalls. A review of City Standard Drawings for parking stalls11 found that the project’s 
proposed parking dimensions are in compliance with City specifications for accessible, compact, and 
standard stall types. 
Vehicle Parking 
As noted in a prior section in this report, the project is proposing to provide fewer spaces (221) than 
minimally required by City parking regulations (320). A parking study conducted concluded that the 
Project is expected to generate demand for 208 parking spaces, indicating that the parking provided at 
the Project site will meet parking demand.  
  
 
10 https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4386/222-E-4th-Ave-Draegers (Accessed October 2022) 
11 Standard Drawings | San Mateo, CA - Official Website (cityofsanmateo.org) 
988 of 1252

--- page 989 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 35 
Driveway Sight Distance 
The project proposes to construct a parking garage with a 24 ft wide driveway fronting the north side of 5th 
Avenue. This width is in compliance with City standards (12’) when serving more than two off-street parking 
spaces (Chapter 27.64). The 5th Avenue roadway segments that approach the garage ingress/egress do 
not have severe grade or curves.  
Sight distance is the continuous length of the roadway ahead, visible to the roadway user. Sight distance 
requirements vary depending on roadway speeds. The posted limit on 5th Avenue is 25 mph (i.e., design 
speed of 30 mph). Per the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) Highway Design Manual 405.1 
(2)(d), the corner sight distance requirements do not apply to urban driveways, unless they are signalized. 
Since this project proposes an unsignalized driveway, per the Caltrans Manual on Uniform Traffic Control 
Devices (CA MUTCD 2014, Revision 6), a clearance of 6 feet measured from the curb return should be 
provided at alleys and driveways (Section 3B.19). No on-street parking is proposed on 5th Avenue, leaving 
clear sight lines into and out of the driveway.  
This project proposes project driveways that least interfere with traffic movements and vulnerable users per 
City off-street parking standards (Chapter 27.64). The project proposes to plant Silverleaf Oak trees along 
5th Avenue, including on either side of the garage entrance and exit. Landscaping must be maintained 
properly to ensure it does not impede roadway visibility. There are no existing bike lanes on the roadway, 
however the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes a class II bike lane which would pass by the project 
driveway. No major conflicts and concerns pertaining to driveway access are evident in the proposed site 
plan.  
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS 
Pedestrians can access the site from entries on Ellsworth Avenue (to the office), B Street (to the public 
parking, residences, or retail use), or through the 4th Ave building frontage (retail use). The project site 
proposes sidewalks along all the parcel boundaries as well as a pedestrian plaza and parklets at 4th 
Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue. The project would not generate activities that would interfere with access or 
circulation for people walking to, from, or passing by the site.  
BICYCLE ACCESS 
The proposed project would promote accessibility for people biking to the site by providing bicycle parking 
and a bike lane (Class II) along both sides of 5th Avenue between Ellsworth Avenue and B Street. The 
project would not generate activities that would interfere with access or circulation for people biking. 
 
BIKE PARKING 
The project proposes to provide 38 bicycle parking spaces which includes short- and long-term parking split 
among the different parcel land uses. A 292 SF bike room will be provided on the ground floor and a 134 SF 
bike storage facility is located on the fifth floor. Bike racks are proposed along the site on all four sides of 
the building.  
 Long Term Bike Parking 
o 
Commercial – 10 
o 
Residential – 10   
o 
Retail – 1 
 Short Term Bike Parking 
o 
Commercial – 5 
o 
Residential – 1 
o 
Retail – 14 
989 of 1252

--- page 990 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 36 
 
The ground floor bike room is accessible from the Ellsworth Avenue entrance, separating cyclists from 
vehicle traffic in the garage and minimizing conflicts between the modes.  
TRANSIT ACCESS 
Access to transit facilities and services outlined in the Existing Conditions section will not change with the 
proposed site plan.   
HAZARDS AND EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS 
Loading Zone and Garbage Trucks 
The project proposes to expand the existing 105 ft commercial loading zone on B Street to 120 ft. The 
project site plans show three trash rooms: a grocery trash room with access on B Street, an office/cafeteria 
trash room on Ellsworth Avenue, and a residential trash room. Garbage trucks would access trash collector 
areas via B Street and Ellsworth Avenue.  
The project should ensure that access to and from the trash area on B street for garbage trucks does not 
create or increase conflict with bikes through inadequate site lines or staging within the bike lane. In 
addition, trash bins should not encroach the public right of way, including the bike lane. The trash bins 
should be removed from the public right-of-way immediately after garbage pickup as to not impact AM or 
PM peak hour traffic conditions.  
Emergency Vehicle Access 
The nearest fire station (San Mateo Fire Department Station #21) is located approximately 0.2 miles west of 
the project site at 120 S Ellsworth Ave. The proposed plans indicate that the bulb outs at each intersection 
surrounding the project site can accommodate the turning radius of a fire truck. Per City requirements, all 
driveways and drive aisles are at least 20 feet wide and would accommodate Emergency Vehicle access. 
Therefore, smaller emergency trucks and vans would also be able to access the parking garage.  
95TH PERCENTILE QUEUE ANALYSIS 
In addition to the operations analysis, Kittelson also reviewed the changes in 95th percentile queue lengths 
for the study intersections. Queue lengths are typically evaluated as part of the network-level or design-
related considerations (i.e., to gauge interaction between nearby intersections). The 95th percentile queue 
lengths are reported to provide an appropriate storage for all but the worst 5% of traffic scenarios. This 
report provides queue lengths, which are derived from the outputs of the Synchro traffic analysis software 
and are representative of the 95th percentile traffic volumes12. The 95th percentile queue length worksheets 
are provided in Appendix G.  
Table 10 through Table 12 show the 95th percentile queue lengths for the Existing, Baseline (Opening Year), 
Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project, Cumulative, and Cumulative Plus Project conditions. Movements 
where the expected 95th percentile queue length exceeds storage capacity during the weekday peak 
hours are highlighted in grey in each of the tables shown below. 
Storage capacity is exceeded for the following scenarios: 
 
E 4th Ave/B Street, EB and SB approaches – Cumulative Conditions (AM) 
 
E 4th Ave/B Street, EB and SB approaches – Cumulative Conditions (PM) 
 
E 4th Ave/B Street, EB and SB approaches – Cumulative Plus Project Conditions (AM) 
 
12 Microsimulation of queues using SimTraffic, another analysis software package, was not performed because this model 
is typically used in the design phase of a project. For a planning level study, industry practice is to use the Synchro outputs. 
990 of 1252

--- page 991 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 37 
 
E 4th Ave/B Street, EB and SB approaches – Cumulative Plus Project Conditions (PM) 
 
E 4th Ave/Ellsworth Avenue, EB approach – Cumulative Conditions (PM) 
 
E 4th Ave/Ellsworth Avenue, EB approach – Cumulative Plus Project Conditions (PM) 
Although storage capacity is exceeded in these scenarios, queue lengths do not increase with respect to 
plus project scenarios when compared to no project scenarios.  Thus, the proposed project does not 
impact the status quo.
991 of 1252

--- page 992 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 38 
Table 10: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Existing Conditions  
# 
Location 
Scenario 
95th Percentile Queue Length (number of vehicles) 
EB Approach 
WB Approach 
NB Approach 
SB Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
6 
- 
- 
5 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
1 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
3 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
5 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
6 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
5 
- 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1 
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
9 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
6 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
11 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
8 
- 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements; AWSC: All-Way Stop Control 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection, Bold cells are 95th percentile queue lengths greater than existing storage. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson 
& Associates, 2022.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
992 of 1252

--- page 993 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 39 
Table 11: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Baseline (Opening Year) and Baseline (Opening Year) Plus Project Conditions 
# 
Location 
(Control) 
Scenario 
95th Percentile Queue Length (number of vehicles) 
EB Approach 
WB Approach 
NB Approach 
SB Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1  
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
6 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
1 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
7 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
1 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
3 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
5 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
3 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
5 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
3 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
3 
- 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1  
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
9 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
10 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
5 
- 
- 
2 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
6 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
6 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
8 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
5 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
8 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
5 
- 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements; AWSC: All-Way Stop Control 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection, Bold cells are 95th percentile queue lengths greater than existing storage. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson 
& Associates, 2022.  
 
 
993 of 1252

--- page 994 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 40 
Table 12: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Cumulative and Cumulative Plus Project Conditions 
# 
Location 
(Control) 
Scenario 
95th Percentile Queue Length (number of vehicles) 
EB Approach 
WB Approach 
NB Approach 
SB Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1  
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
7 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
2 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
7 
- 
- 
7 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
2 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
17 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
14 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
17 
- 
- 
3 
- 
- 
5 
- 
- 
14 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
8 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
3 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
8 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
3 
- 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1  
E 5th Avenue/Laurel Avenue 
No Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
E 5th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
3 
E 5th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
10 
- 
- 
7 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
3 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
12 
- 
- 
7 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
3 
- 
4 
E 4th Avenue/B Street 
No Project 
- 
25 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
12 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
25 
- 
- 
4 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
12 
- 
5 
E 4th Avenue/Ellsworth Avenue 
No Project 
- 
19 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
6 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
19 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
6 
- 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements; AWSC: All-Way Stop Control 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection, Bold cells are 95th percentile queue lengths greater than existing storage. Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition; Kittelson 
& Associates, 2022.  
 
994 of 1252

--- page 995 ---
October 26, 2022  
 
San Mateo Draeger’s TIA Report 
Local Transportation Analysis 
Kittelson & Associates 
Page 41 
TECHNICAL APPENDIX 
 
 
 
 
995 of 1252

--- page 996 ---
I< KITTELSON

& ASSOCIATES

Appendix A Travel
Demand Memo

, aS =m.
Vent
OS gs = \\\\"

ee mill
iP

= uit
ANY
Kt 1

ral
——

—
==
—s

S

IAIN
WA
Df Mee


--- page 997 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Technical Memorandum 
 
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. (Kittelson) prepared this memorandum for the 222 East 4th Avenue Project at the 
existing Draeger’s site in San Mateo, California (Project). The Project proposes to redevelop the existing 
Draeger Market into a mixed-use building with office, residential, and retail space. Site access will be 
accommodated for personal and delivery vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians. 
Project Description 
Lane Partners is proposing to replace the existing 60,965 square feet Draeger’s market located at 222 East 
4th Avenue with a 5-story, approximately 152,533 square feet mixed-use building with two levels of below 
grade parking. The building would consist of approximately 104,554 square feet of office space, 17,658 
square feet of retail space, and 8,997 square feet of residential space for 10 below-market-rate units at the 
lower income level. The retail floor would be located on the ground floor, the office space would be 
spread throughout the first four floors, and the residential space would be split between the ground floor 
(i.e., residential lobby/elevator) and the fifth floor living areas. The ground floor would also include 12,392 
square feet of covered parking area and two levels (89,519 square feet) below grade for a total of 221 
parking spaces. The Project site plan is shown in Figure 1.  
The Project site is in downtown San Mateo and is zoned as Central Business District/Residential Overlay 
District – Mixed Use (CBD). The site is also in a designated “Transit Oriented Development” area as it is within 
a half mile of the San Mateo Caltrain station.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505 
Oakland, CA 94612 
August 22, 2022     
Project# 24837.009 
To: 
Wendy Lao  
City of San Mateo   
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
From: 
Anusha Musunuru, PhD; Allison Woodworth; Mychal Loomis, PE 
CC: 
Mike Kato, Bethany Lopez, Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
RE: 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT 
997 of 1252

--- page 998 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 2 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Figure 1: Proposed Mixed-Use Project Site Plan 
 
Source: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4386/222-E-4th-Ave-Draegers 
 
Existing Conditions 
 
Kittelson obtained the multimodal intersection turning movement counts at three of the five study 
intersections from the City for the weekday a.m. (7-9 am) and p.m. (4-6 pm) peak period when the existing 
project site generated trips. The multimodal intersection turning movement counts for the remaining two 
study intersections were obtained using the Streetlight data. These turning movement counts obtained from 
Streetlight data were adjusted so that the intersection entry and exit volumes match the adjacent counts 
collected at the other study intersections.  
1. 
Laurel Avenue/5th Avenue (Streetlight data) 
2. 
Ellsworth Avenue/5th Avenue (Field collected data) 
3. 
B Street/5th Avenue (Field collected data) 
4. 
B Street/4th Avenue (Field collected data) 
998 of 1252

--- page 999 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 3 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
5. 
Ellsworth Avenue/4th Avenue (Streetlight data) 
Figure 1 illustrates the locations of the five study intersections. Based on the collected counts and adjusted 
streetlight data at all five intersections, peak hours were 7:45 – 8:45 am and 5:00 – 6:00 pm. The existing 
volumes (and counts) are summarized in Table 1 and Table 2 for the AM and PM peak hours, respectively.  
Figure 1: Study Intersections 
 
Table 1: Existing Intersection Volumes (AM peak hour)* 
Intersection 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound 
Westbound 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
Laurel Ave/5th Ave 
186 
- 
131 
- 
- 
- 
- 
189 
162 
244 
103 
- 
Ellsworth Ave/5th Ave 
- 
- 
- 
21 
- 
63 
36 
284 
- 
- 
284 
10 
B Street/5th Ave 
32 
126 
56 
13 
94 
23 
16 
251 
54 
21 
239 
11 
B Street/4th Ave 
13 
97 
44 
62 
103 
59 
21 
362 
20 
7 
87 
7 
Ellsworth Ave/4th Ave 
0 
69 
0 
54 
113 
77 
13 
349 
23 
0 
134 
25 
*Note: These volumes include existing site generated trips 
 
 
 
999 of 1252

--- page 1000 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 4 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table 2: Existing Intersection Volumes (PM peak hour)* 
Intersection 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound 
Westbound 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
Laurel Ave/5th Ave 
95 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
363 
139 
66 
280 
- 
Ellsworth Ave/5th Ave 
- 
- 
- 
32 
- 
120 
45 
318 
- 
- 
226 
27 
B Street/5th Ave 
38 
137 
72 
18 
117 
34 
38 
321 
55 
25 
223 
30 
B Street/4th Ave 
18 
127 
55 
60 
112 
97 
37 
509 
47 
10 
111 
22 
Ellsworth Ave/4th Ave 
78 
30 
0 
106 
152 
81 
9 
487 
36 
0 
186 
40 
*Note: These volumes include existing site generated trips 
Vehicle Trip Generation  
ITE DEVELOPMENT LAND USE CODES  
Trip generation is a key consideration for determining local effects of the project on the transportation 
network. Trip generation rates published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation 
Manual 11th Edition were used to estimate the number of trips the mixed-use proposed project would 
generate. ITE trip estimates are tied to specific land use codes. The ITE land use codes found to be most 
applicable to the Project are listed below.  
• 
Supermarket (ITE 850) 
• 
General Office Building (ITE 710) 
• 
Affordable Housing (ITE 223) 
In addition, this Project is assumed to be in the ‘Dense Multi-Use Urban’ context, considered by ITE to be an 
area that has diverse and interacting complementary land uses with good pedestrian connectivity, and 
convenient and frequent transit service. This is consistent with the Transit Oriented Development overlay 
and CBD zoning for the project site for which the San Mateo Municipal code promotes mixed-uses and 
pedestrian activity. Table 2 below shows the trip generation rates used for the analysis.  
Table 3: Trip Generation Rates, ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition 
Land Use 
ITE 
Code 
Land Use 
Context 
Units* 
Weekday 
Daily 
Rate 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
Rate 
In % 
Out % 
Rate 
In % 
Out % 
Retail 
(Supermarket) 
850 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
1000 SF 
GFA 
107.42  
4.99 
55% 
45% 
9.32 
50% 
50% 
Office Space 
710 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
1000 SF 
GFA 
 none 
provided 
0.84 
87% 
13% 
0.87 
16% 
84% 
Office Space 
710 
General 
Urban/ 
Suburban1 
1000 SF 
GFA 
Fitted 
Curve2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Affordable 
Housing 
223 
Dense 
Multi-Use 
Urban 
DU 
3.83  
0.5 
29% 
71% 
0.36 
61% 
39% 
*: GFA – Gross Floor Area, SF – Square Feet, DU – Dwelling Units 
1: The weekday daily rate for General Urban/Suburban land use was used for Office Space (ITE 710) as no vehicle rate 
was provided for the Dense Multi-Use Urban land use context.  
2: ITE 710 (General Urban/Suburban) daily rate fitted curve equation: Ln(T) = 0.87 Ln(X) + 3.05 
1000 of 1252

--- page 1001 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 5 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
TRIP GENERATION CALCULATION 
Trip generation estimates for this Project took into consideration three types of trips:  
• 
Primary or New: These are the trips whose specific purpose was to visit the site. Primary trip rates 
were generated using ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition. 
 
• 
Pass-by: Drivers already on their way to a destination that stop temporarily at the Project Site 
without a major roadway diversion are considered making “pass-by” trips.  Supermarket 850 is the 
only land use code in ITE Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition for which a pass-by rate was supplied. 
The 24% average pass-by rate for this land use was only applicable for Weekday PM Peak, resulting 
in a reduction of 39 trips. 
• 
Internal: Trips that occur between land-uses on a multi-use project site and which can be made 
without using the off-site street network are considered “internal trips”. Internal trips for this project 
can be made by walking between uses. Internal capture was estimated using methodology from 
NCHRP Report 684 – Enhancing Internal Trip Capture for Mixed-Use Developments.  
The existing Draeger’s market was included as existing trip credits as it currently generates trips to and from 
the site. Pass-by trips were also applied to the existing supermarket use. 
Table 3 provides a summary of the proposed project’s trip generation. As shown in the table, the net new 
trip generation would be a reduction of 3,645 average daily weekday trips with a reduction of 135 new trips 
occurring the morning peak and a reduction of 231 new trips occurring the afternoon peak. 
Table 4: Proposed Project Net Trip Generation Calculations 
Land Use 
Size 
Weekday 
Daily Trips 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Proposed Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
17.6 KSF 
1,891  
48 
40 
88 
82 
82 
164 
Office Space 
104.7 KSF 
1,208 
77 
11 
88 
15 
76 
91 
Affordable Housing 
10 DU 
38 
1 
4 
5 
2 
2 
4 
Internal Capture 
 
-233 
-6 
-6 
-12 
-11 
-11 
-22 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-18 
-18 
-36 
Total Proposed 
Project Trips 
 
2,904 
120 
49 
169 
70 
131 
201 
Existing Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
61 KSF 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
284 
284 
568 
Pass-by reduction 
(24% PM only) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-68 
-68 
-136 
Total Existing Trips 
 
6,549 
167 
137 
304 
216 
216 
432 
Net New Project Trips 
 
-3,645 
-47 
-88 
-135 
-146 
-84 
-231 
Note: Updated square footage for the office space portion of the proposed project from 104.7 KSF to 104.5 KSF did not change 
the proposed project trips generated. 
Vehicle Trip Distribution 
The vehicle trip distribution assumptions are based on the existing counts and proximity to the major 
arterials and freeways. As shown above, the proposed project would generate less peak hour trips with a 
reduction of 135 trips in the morning peak hour and 231 trips in the afternoon peak hour when compared to 
1001 of 1252

--- page 1002 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 6 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
the trips generated from the existing site. The driveways for the existing site are situated on Ellsworth 
Avenue, and the driveway for the proposed project site is situated on 5th Avenue. Vehicle traffic going 
to/from the existing and proposed project site are distributed at each intersection according to the turning 
movement proportions consistent with the existing counts. Existing project vehicle trip distribution 
percentages are illustrated in Figure 2 and Figure 3 for AM and PM, and proposed project vehicle trip 
distribution percentages are illustrated in Figure 4 and Figure 5 for AM and PM, respectively. Table 5 and 
Table 6 illustrate the existing plus project intersection volumes during the weekday AM and weekday PM 
peak hours, respectively.  
Figure 2: Existing Project Vehicle Trip Distribution (AM) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1002 of 1252

--- page 1003 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 7 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Figure 3: Existing Project Vehicle Trip Distribution (PM) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1003 of 1252

--- page 1004 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 8 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Figure 4: Proposed Project Vehicle Trip Distribution (AM) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1004 of 1252

--- page 1005 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 9 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Figure 5: Proposed Project Vehicle Trip Distribution (PM) 
 
Table 5: Existing plus Project Intersection Volumes (AM Peak Hour)* 
Intersection 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound 
Westbound 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
Laurel Ave/5th Ave 
186 
- 
140 
- 
- 
- 
- 
203 
162 
224 
95 
- 
Ellsworth Ave/5th Ave 
- 
- 
- 
4 
- 
12 
0 
343 
- 
- 
307 
0 
B Street/5th Ave 
38 
126 
56 
13 
94 
27 
16 
258 
55 
21 
281 
11 
B Street/4th Ave 
13 
97 
44 
62 
106 
59 
21 
362 
21 
7 
87 
7 
Ellsworth Ave/4th Ave 
0 
0 
0 
54 
13 
77 
13 
350 
2 
0 
134 
25 
*Note: These volumes do not include existing site generated trips (i.e., existing site generated trips were subtracted from 
the existing volumes and proposed site generated trips are added to get existing plus project volumes). 
 
 
 
1005 of 1252

--- page 1006 ---
August 22, 2022 
Page 10 
San Mateo Draeger’s Traffic Impact Analysis – Project Travel Demand DRAFT   
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Table 6: Existing plus Project Intersection Volumes (PM Peak Hour)* 
Intersection 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound 
Westbound 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
Laurel Ave/5th Ave 
95 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
354 
139 
59 
248 
- 
Ellsworth Ave/5th Ave 
- 
- 
- 
9 
- 
35 
0 
354 
- 
- 
272 
0 
B Street/5th Ave 
39 
137 
72 
18 
117 
35 
44 
369 
63 
25 
228 
30 
B Street/4th Ave 
19 
131 
56 
60 
113 
97 
37 
509 
47 
10 
111 
22 
Ellsworth Ave/4th Ave 
0 
0 
0 
106 
36 
81 
9 
488 
8 
0 
187 
40 
*Note: These volumes do not include existing site generated trips (i.e., existing site generated trips were subtracted from 
the existing volumes and proposed site generated trips are added to get existing plus project volumes). 
Next Steps 
Pending City’s review of this memorandum, a determination has to be made whether further traffic analysis is required or 
not, based on the existing and proposed vehicle trip distribution and intersection volumes.  
1006 of 1252

--- page 1007 ---
Appendix B Existing 
Conditions Synchro 
Worksheets
1007 of 1252

--- page 1008 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.3
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
45
228
51
42
243
Future Vol, veh/h
81
45
228
51
42
243
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
49
248
55
46
264
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
632
276
0
0
303
0
          Stage 1
276
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
356
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
429
757
-
-
1258
-
          Stage 1
759
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
695
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
411
757
-
-
1258
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
411
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
759
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
665
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15.1
0
1.2
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
491
1258
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.279 0.036
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15.1
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.1
0.1
-
1008 of 1252

--- page 1009 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
54
113
77
0
69
0
13
349
23
0
134
25
Future Volume (veh/h)
54
113
77
0
69
0
13
349
23
0
134
25
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
59
123
84
0
75
0
14
379
25
0
146
27
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
134
178
107
0
380
0
81
1119
72
0
1002
185
Arrive On Green
0.20
0.20
0.20
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
264
876
526
0
1870
0
21
1777
114
0
1592
294
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
266
0
0
0
75
0
418
0
0
0
0
173
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1667
0
0
0
1870
0
1913
0
0
0
0
1886
Q Serve(g_s), s
5.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
8.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
5.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.22
0.32
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.06
0.00
0.16
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
419
0
0
0
380
0
1272
0
0
0
0
1187
V/C Ratio(X)
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.15
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
810
0
0
0
830
0
1272
0
0
0
0
1187
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
20.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
18.2
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
18.3
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
266
75
418
173
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.3
18.3
5.5
0.3
Approach LOS
C
B
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
15.8
39.2
15.8
39.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
24.4
21.4
24.4
21.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
10.2
2.0
3.8
7.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.6
0.2
1.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.1
HCM 6th LOS
B
Notes
User approved pedestrian interval to be less than phase max green.
1009 of 1252

--- page 1010 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.9
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
21
63
36
284
284
10
Future Vol, veh/h
21
63
36
284
284
10
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
23
68
39
309
309
11
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
702
315
320
0
-
0
          Stage 1
315
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
387
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
392
724
1251
-
-
-
          Stage 1
732
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
377
724
1251
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
377
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
704
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.2
0.9
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1251
-
589
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.031
- 0.155
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
8
0
12.2
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
0.5
-
-
1010 of 1252

--- page 1011 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
13
94
23
32
126
56
16
251
54
21
239
11
Future Volume (veh/h)
13
94
23
32
126
56
16
251
54
21
239
11
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1781
1856
1707
1900
1870
1841
1884
1976
1945
1899
1961
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
14
102
25
35
137
61
17
273
59
23
260
12
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
8
3
13
0
2
4
6
0
2
5
1
0
Cap, veh/h
133
859
198
188
695
286
78
355
74
88
409
18
Arrive On Green
0.64
0.64
0.64
0.64
0.64
0.64
0.23
0.23
0.23
0.23
0.23
0.23
Sat Flow, veh/h
96
1339
309
175
1084
447
42
1533
321
76
1765
78
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
141
0
0
233
0
0
349
0
0
295
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1744
0
0
1706
0
0
1896
0
0
1919
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.7
0.0
0.0
3.0
0.0
0.0
9.5
0.0
0.0
7.5
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.10
0.18
0.15
0.26
0.05
0.17
0.08
0.04
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1191
0
0
1169
0
0
508
0
0
515
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.12
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.69
0.00
0.00
0.57
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1191
0
0
1169
0
0
939
0
0
941
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.73
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
3.8
0.0
0.0
4.1
0.0
0.0
19.9
0.0
0.0
19.1
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.0
0.0
0.0
4.5
0.0
0.0
20.5
0.0
0.0
19.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
141
233
349
295
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.0
4.5
20.5
19.5
Approach LOS
A
A
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
38.8
16.2
38.8
16.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
22.5
25.5
22.5
25.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.7
9.5
5.0
11.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.5
1.1
0.9
1.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.2
HCM 6th LOS
B
1011 of 1252

--- page 1012 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
62
103
59
13
97
44
21
362
20
7
87
7
Future Volume (veh/h)
62
103
59
13
97
44
21
362
20
7
87
7
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1811
1811
1870
1900
1885
1796
1899
1930
1899
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
67
112
64
14
105
48
23
393
22
8
95
8
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
6
6
2
0
1
7
5
3
5
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
148
163
82
84
230
98
96
1161
63
110
1093
88
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.66
0.66
0.66
Sat Flow, veh/h
340
857
428
70
1204
514
41
1759
95
61
1655
133
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
243
0
0
167
0
0
438
0
0
111
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1625
0
0
1789
0
0
1894
0
0
1849
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
3.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
7.6
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.28
0.26
0.08
0.29
0.05
0.05
0.07
0.07
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
393
0
0
412
0
0
1320
0
0
1291
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.62
0.00
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.09
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
765
0
0
831
0
0
1320
0
0
1291
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
0.00
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.0
0.0
0.0
19.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.8
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.6
0.0
0.0
20.1
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
243
167
438
111
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.6
20.1
0.6
3.5
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
23.9
22.9
23.9
22.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
9.6
3.2
6.6
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.3
0.6
1.8
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.7
HCM 6th LOS
A
1012 of 1252

--- page 1013 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
269
90
52
198
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
269
90
52
198
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
292
98
57
215
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
670
341
0
0
390
0
          Stage 1
341
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
329
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
407
695
-
-
1169
-
          Stage 1
707
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
716
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
385
695
-
-
1169
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
385
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
707
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
677
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15.3
0
1.7
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
446
1169
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.214 0.048
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15.3
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0.2
-
1013 of 1252

--- page 1014 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
106
152
81
78
30
0
9
487
36
0
186
40
Future Volume (veh/h)
106
152
81
78
30
0
9
487
36
0
186
40
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
115
165
88
85
33
0
10
529
39
0
202
43
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
188
212
103
273
91
0
62
1073
78
0
937
199
Arrive On Green
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.00
0.60
0.60
0.60
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
453
835
405
700
360
0
10
1776
129
0
1550
330
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
368
0
0
118
0
0
578
0
0
0
0
245
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1693
0
0
1060
0
0
1915
0
0
0
0
1880
Q Serve(g_s), s
7.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
13.3
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.31
0.24
0.72
0.00
0.02
0.07
0.00
0.18
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
503
0
0
365
0
0
1214
0
0
0
0
1136
V/C Ratio(X)
0.73
0.00
0.00
0.32
0.00
0.00
0.48
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.22
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
749
0
0
557
0
0
1214
0
0
0
0
1136
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
22.9
0.0
0.0
20.1
0.0
0.0
7.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
5.1
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
23.6
0.0
0.0
20.3
0.0
0.0
8.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
368
118
578
245
Approach Delay, s/veh
23.6
20.3
8.6
0.4
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
21.1
43.9
21.1
43.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
26.4
29.4
26.4
29.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
15.3
2.0
8.0
13.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.2
0.9
0.4
2.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
12.4
HCM 6th LOS
B
1014 of 1252

--- page 1015 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
32
120
45
318
226
27
Future Vol, veh/h
32
120
45
318
226
27
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
35
130
49
346
246
29
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
705
261
275
0
-
0
          Stage 1
261
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
444
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
390
774
1300
-
-
-
          Stage 1
776
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
635
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
372
774
1300
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
372
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
635
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.7
1
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1300
-
631
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.038
- 0.262
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
7.9
0
12.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
1
-
-
1015 of 1252

--- page 1016 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
18
117
34
38
137
72
38
321
55
25
223
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
18
117
34
38
137
72
38
321
55
25
223
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1900
1885
1900
1976
1961
1945
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
20
127
37
41
149
78
41
349
60
27
242
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
133
785
216
177
619
300
90
429
70
85
453
59
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.61
0.61
0.61
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
Sat Flow, veh/h
117
1291
355
186
1018
494
103
1508
248
87
1594
206
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
184
0
0
268
0
0
450
0
0
302
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1763
0
0
1698
0
0
1858
0
0
1887
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.5
0.0
0.0
14.7
0.0
0.0
8.6
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.11
0.20
0.15
0.29
0.09
0.13
0.09
0.11
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1133
0
0
1096
0
0
589
0
0
597
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.16
0.00
0.00
0.24
0.00
0.00
0.76
0.00
0.00
0.51
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1133
0
0
1096
0
0
922
0
0
929
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.58
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.9
0.0
0.0
21.8
0.0
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.1
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
6.2
0.0
0.0
3.7
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
22.6
0.0
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
184
268
450
302
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.2
6.4
22.6
20.0
Approach LOS
A
A
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
43.0
22.0
43.0
22.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
27.5
30.5
27.5
30.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
10.6
6.5
16.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
1.2
1.1
1.8
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.9
HCM 6th LOS
B
1016 of 1252

--- page 1017 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
60
112
97
18
127
55
37
509
47
10
111
22
Future Volume (veh/h)
60
112
97
18
127
55
37
509
47
10
111
22
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1811
1885
1841
1976
1945
1976
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
65
122
105
20
138
60
40
553
51
11
121
24
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
6
1
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
127
167
127
78
253
103
101
1114
99
102
995
189
Arrive On Green
0.21
0.21
0.21
0.42
0.42
0.42
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.67
0.67
0.67
Sat Flow, veh/h
283
804
611
85
1218
495
64
1673
149
64
1494
283
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
292
0
0
218
0
0
644
0
0
156
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1699
0
0
1798
0
0
1886
0
0
1842
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
4.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
10.5
0.0
0.0
6.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.22
0.36
0.09
0.28
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.15
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
421
0
0
434
0
0
1315
0
0
1286
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.69
0.00
0.00
0.50
0.00
0.00
0.49
0.00
0.00
0.12
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
724
0
0
759
0
0
1315
0
0
1286
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.97
0.00
0.00
0.85
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
24.4
0.0
0.0
16.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.9
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
4.2
0.0
0.0
2.1
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
25.2
0.0
0.0
17.1
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
4.1
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
292
218
644
156
Approach Delay, s/veh
25.2
17.1
1.1
4.1
Approach LOS
C
B
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
17.6
47.4
17.6
47.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
25.9
30.9
25.9
30.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
12.5
3.9
8.1
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.1
0.6
0.8
3.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.5
HCM 6th LOS
A
1017 of 1252

--- page 1018 ---
Appendix C Baseline 
(Opening Year) 
Conditions Synchro 
Worksheets
1018 of 1252

--- page 1019 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
30
207
51
6
228
Future Vol, veh/h
81
30
207
51
6
228
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
33
225
55
7
248
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
515
253
0
0
280
0
          Stage 1
253
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
262
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
505
780
-
-
1283
-
          Stage 1
778
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
771
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
502
780
-
-
1283
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
502
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
778
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
766
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.3
0
0.2
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
556
1283
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.217 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.3
7.8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0
-
1019 of 1252

--- page 1020 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
54
13
77
0
0
0
13
349
2
0
134
25
Future Volume (veh/h)
54
13
77
0
0
0
13
349
2
0
134
25
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
59
14
84
0
0
0
14
379
2
0
146
27
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
169
54
154
0
340
0
82
1236
6
0
1036
192
Arrive On Green
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.65
0.65
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
435
299
845
0
1870
0
23
1899
10
0
1592
294
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
157
0
0
0
0
0
395
0
0
0
0
173
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1579
0
0
0
1870
0
1931
0
0
0
0
1886
Q Serve(g_s), s
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.38
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.01
0.00
0.16
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
377
0
0
0
340
0
1325
0
0
0
0
1228
V/C Ratio(X)
0.42
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.30
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.14
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
780
0
0
0
830
0
1325
0
0
0
0
1228
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
20.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
20.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
157
0
395
173
Approach Delay, s/veh
20.6
0.0
4.8
0.2
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
24.4
21.4
24.4
21.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.8
2.0
0.0
6.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.5
0.6
0.0
1.4
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
7.1
HCM 6th LOS
A
Notes
User approved pedestrian interval to be less than phase max green.
1020 of 1252

--- page 1021 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
330
308
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
330
308
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
13
0
359
335
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
694
335
335
0
-
0
          Stage 1
335
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
359
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
396
705
1236
-
-
-
          Stage 1
716
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
697
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
396
705
1236
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
396
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
716
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
697
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.3
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1236
-
590
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.029
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.3
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1021 of 1252

--- page 1022 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
13
94
22
31
124
56
13
285
51
21
255
11
Future Volume (veh/h)
13
94
22
31
124
56
13
285
51
21
255
11
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1781
1856
1707
1900
1870
1841
1884
1976
1945
1899
1961
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
14
102
24
34
135
61
14
310
55
23
277
12
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
8
3
13
0
2
4
6
0
2
5
1
0
Cap, veh/h
132
845
187
181
679
283
75
395
68
88
439
18
Arrive On Green
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.25
Sat Flow, veh/h
96
1351
299
170
1085
453
30
1600
277
71
1776
74
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
140
0
0
230
0
0
379
0
0
312
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1746
0
0
1708
0
0
1906
0
0
1921
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.7
0.0
0.0
3.0
0.0
0.0
10.2
0.0
0.0
7.9
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.10
0.17
0.15
0.27
0.04
0.15
0.07
0.04
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1165
0
0
1143
0
0
539
0
0
545
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.12
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.70
0.00
0.00
0.57
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1165
0
0
1143
0
0
945
0
0
942
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.73
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
4.2
0.0
0.0
4.4
0.0
0.0
19.4
0.0
0.0
18.6
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
4.3
0.0
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.3
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
18.9
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
140
230
379
312
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.3
4.8
20.0
18.9
Approach LOS
A
A
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
37.9
17.1
37.9
17.1
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
22.5
25.5
22.5
25.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.7
9.9
5.0
12.2
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.5
1.2
0.9
1.4
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.3
HCM 6th LOS
B
1022 of 1252

--- page 1023 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
60
102
59
13
96
44
21
357
20
7
85
7
Future Volume (veh/h)
60
102
59
13
96
44
21
357
20
7
85
7
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1811
1811
1870
1900
1885
1796
1899
1930
1899
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
65
111
64
14
104
48
23
388
22
8
92
8
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
6
6
2
0
1
7
5
3
5
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
146
162
82
84
226
97
96
1164
64
113
1090
91
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.66
0.66
0.66
Sat Flow, veh/h
332
861
434
71
1200
517
41
1757
96
64
1646
137
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
240
0
0
166
0
0
433
0
0
108
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1627
0
0
1788
0
0
1894
0
0
1847
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
3.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
7.5
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.27
0.27
0.08
0.29
0.05
0.05
0.07
0.07
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
390
0
0
408
0
0
1324
0
0
1293
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.62
0.00
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.08
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
765
0
0
830
0
0
1324
0
0
1293
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
0.00
0.00
0.96
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.1
0.0
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.8
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.6
0.0
0.0
20.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
240
166
433
108
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.6
20.2
0.6
3.4
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.5
40.5
14.5
40.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
23.9
22.9
23.9
22.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
9.5
3.1
6.6
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.3
0.6
1.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.7
HCM 6th LOS
A
1023 of 1252

--- page 1024 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
224
90
36
129
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
224
90
36
129
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
243
98
39
140
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
510
292
0
0
341
0
          Stage 1
292
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
218
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
509
741
-
-
1218
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
808
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
491
741
-
-
1218
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
491
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
780
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13
0
1.8
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
548
1218
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.175 0.032
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0.1
-
1024 of 1252

--- page 1025 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
106
36
81
0
0
0
9
487
8
0
186
40
Future Volume (veh/h)
106
36
81
0
0
0
9
487
8
0
186
40
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
115
39
88
0
0
0
10
529
9
0
202
43
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
208
63
109
0
359
0
63
1260
21
0
1033
220
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.67
0.67
0.67
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
660
331
566
0
1870
0
10
1890
32
0
1550
330
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
242
0
0
0
0
0
548
0
0
0
0
245
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1557
0
0
0
1870
0
1933
0
0
0
0
1880
Q Serve(g_s), s
8.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
9.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.48
0.36
0.00
0.00
0.02
0.02
0.00
0.18
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
380
0
0
0
359
0
1345
0
0
0
0
1253
V/C Ratio(X)
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.20
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
710
0
0
0
760
0
1345
0
0
0
0
1253
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
25.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
25.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
242
0
548
245
Approach Delay, s/veh
25.7
0.0
5.9
0.3
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
17.1
47.9
17.1
47.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
26.4
29.4
26.4
29.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
11.6
2.0
0.0
10.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.8
0.9
0.0
2.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.2
HCM 6th LOS
A
1025 of 1252

--- page 1026 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
356
281
0
Future Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
356
281
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
10
38
0
387
305
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
692
305
305
0
-
0
          Stage 1
305
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
387
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
397
731
1267
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
397
731
1267
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
397
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.2
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1267
-
624
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.077
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.2
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.2
-
-
1026 of 1252

--- page 1027 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
18
114
31
35
135
72
36
341
52
25
258
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
18
114
31
35
135
72
36
341
52
25
258
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1900
1885
1900
1976
1961
1945
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
20
124
34
38
147
78
39
371
57
27
280
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
135
783
202
166
617
303
87
452
67
82
477
54
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.60
0.60
0.60
0.29
0.29
0.29
0.29
0.29
0.29
Sat Flow, veh/h
123
1304
337
172
1027
506
93
1548
228
77
1633
184
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
178
0
0
263
0
0
467
0
0
340
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1763
0
0
1705
0
0
1869
0
0
1894
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.5
0.0
0.0
15.2
0.0
0.0
9.8
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.11
0.19
0.14
0.30
0.08
0.12
0.08
0.10
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1120
0
0
1086
0
0
606
0
0
613
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.16
0.00
0.00
0.24
0.00
0.00
0.77
0.00
0.00
0.55
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1120
0
0
1086
0
0
926
0
0
933
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.65
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.1
0.0
0.0
21.6
0.0
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.1
0.0
0.0
1.6
0.0
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
6.6
0.0
0.0
22.4
0.0
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
178
263
467
340
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.2
6.6
22.4
20.0
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
42.5
22.5
42.5
22.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
27.5
30.5
27.5
30.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
11.8
6.5
17.2
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
1.4
1.1
1.8
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
15.3
HCM 6th LOS
B
1027 of 1252

--- page 1028 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
38
107
97
18
123
54
37
507
46
10
109
22
Future Volume (veh/h)
38
107
97
18
123
54
37
507
46
10
109
22
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1811
1885
1841
1976
1945
1976
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
41
116
105
20
134
59
40
551
50
11
118
24
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
6
1
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
98
161
130
77
226
93
103
1152
101
106
1018
198
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.25
0.25
0.25
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.69
0.69
0.69
Sat Flow, veh/h
182
860
697
89
1209
497
64
1676
147
67
1482
288
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
262
0
0
213
0
0
641
0
0
153
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1739
0
0
1796
0
0
1887
0
0
1837
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
9.2
0.0
0.0
6.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.16
0.40
0.09
0.28
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.16
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
389
0
0
396
0
0
1355
0
0
1322
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.67
0.00
0.00
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.47
0.00
0.00
0.12
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
735
0
0
756
0
0
1355
0
0
1322
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.97
0.00
0.00
0.91
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
25.2
0.0
0.0
22.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.8
0.0
0.0
2.7
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
25.9
0.0
0.0
22.9
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
3.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
262
213
641
153
Approach Delay, s/veh
25.9
22.9
1.1
3.6
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
16.2
48.8
16.2
48.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
25.9
30.9
25.9
30.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
11.2
3.8
8.8
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
0.6
0.8
3.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.2
HCM 6th LOS
B
1028 of 1252

--- page 1029 ---
Appendix D Baseline 
(Opening Year) 
Conditions Plus Project 
Synchro Worksheets
1029 of 1252

--- page 1030 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.1
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
54
242
51
22
235
Future Vol, veh/h
81
54
242
51
22
235
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
59
263
55
24
255
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
594
291
0
0
318
0
          Stage 1
291
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
303
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
452
742
-
-
1242
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
737
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
442
742
-
-
1242
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
442
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
720
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
14.4
0
0.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
527
1242
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.278 0.019
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
14.4
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.1
0.1
-
1030 of 1252

--- page 1031 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
54
13
77
0
0
0
13
350
2
0
134
25
Future Volume (veh/h)
54
13
77
0
0
0
13
350
2
0
134
25
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
59
14
84
0
0
0
14
380
2
0
146
27
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
169
54
154
0
340
0
82
1236
6
0
1036
192
Arrive On Green
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.65
0.65
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
435
299
845
0
1870
0
23
1899
10
0
1592
294
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
157
0
0
0
0
0
396
0
0
0
0
173
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1579
0
0
0
1870
0
1931
0
0
0
0
1886
Q Serve(g_s), s
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.38
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.01
0.00
0.16
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
377
0
0
0
340
0
1325
0
0
0
0
1228
V/C Ratio(X)
0.42
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.30
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.14
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
780
0
0
0
830
0
1325
0
0
0
0
1228
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
20.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
20.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
157
0
396
173
Approach Delay, s/veh
20.6
0.0
4.8
0.2
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
24.4
21.4
24.4
21.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.8
2.0
0.0
6.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.5
0.6
0.0
1.4
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
7.1
HCM 6th LOS
A
Notes
User approved pedestrian interval to be less than phase max green.
1031 of 1252

--- page 1032 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
389
331
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
389
331
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
13
0
423
360
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
783
360
360
0
-
0
          Stage 1
360
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
423
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
350
682
1210
-
-
-
          Stage 1
696
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
650
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
350
682
1210
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
350
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
696
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
650
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.7
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1210
-
551
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.032
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1032 of 1252

--- page 1033 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
13
94
27
38
124
56
14
305
55
21
305
11
Future Volume (veh/h)
13
94
27
38
124
56
14
305
55
21
305
11
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1781
1856
1707
1900
1870
1841
1884
1976
1945
1899
1961
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
14
102
29
41
135
61
15
332
60
23
332
12
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
8
3
13
0
2
4
6
0
2
5
1
0
Cap, veh/h
126
797
213
204
640
266
76
418
74
85
472
16
Arrive On Green
0.61
0.61
0.61
0.61
0.61
0.61
0.26
0.26
0.26
0.26
0.26
0.26
Sat Flow, veh/h
89
1304
348
208
1048
435
30
1599
282
59
1803
63
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
145
0
0
237
0
0
407
0
0
367
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1741
0
0
1691
0
0
1910
0
0
1926
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.9
0.0
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
10.9
0.0
0.0
9.4
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.10
0.20
0.17
0.26
0.04
0.15
0.06
0.03
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1136
0
0
1110
0
0
567
0
0
573
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.13
0.00
0.00
0.21
0.00
0.00
0.72
0.00
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1136
0
0
1110
0
0
946
0
0
947
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.73
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
4.5
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
19.0
0.0
0.0
18.5
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.6
0.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.7
0.0
0.0
5.2
0.0
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
18.9
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
145
237
407
367
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.7
5.2
19.7
18.9
Approach LOS
A
A
B
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
37.1
17.9
37.1
17.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
22.5
25.5
22.5
25.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.9
11.4
5.3
12.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.5
1.4
0.9
1.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.6
HCM 6th LOS
B
1033 of 1252

--- page 1034 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
60
106
59
13
97
44
21
357
21
7
85
7
Future Volume (veh/h)
60
106
59
13
97
44
21
357
21
7
85
7
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1811
1811
1870
1900
1885
1796
1899
1930
1899
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
65
115
64
14
105
48
23
388
23
8
92
8
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
6
6
2
0
1
7
5
3
5
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
145
167
82
84
230
98
96
1156
66
112
1086
90
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.19
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.66
0.66
0.66
Sat Flow, veh/h
326
875
427
70
1204
514
41
1752
100
64
1646
137
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
244
0
0
167
0
0
434
0
0
108
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1628
0
0
1788
0
0
1893
0
0
1847
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
3.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
7.6
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.27
0.26
0.08
0.29
0.05
0.05
0.07
0.07
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
394
0
0
413
0
0
1318
0
0
1289
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.62
0.00
0.00
0.40
0.00
0.00
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.08
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
766
0
0
831
0
0
1318
0
0
1289
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
0.00
0.00
0.96
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.0
0.0
0.0
19.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.8
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.6
0.0
0.0
20.1
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
244
167
434
108
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.6
20.1
0.6
3.5
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
23.9
22.9
23.9
22.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
9.6
3.1
6.6
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.3
0.6
1.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.7
HCM 6th LOS
A
1034 of 1252

--- page 1035 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
260
90
45
166
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
260
90
45
166
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
283
98
49
180
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
610
332
0
0
381
0
          Stage 1
332
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
278
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
442
703
-
-
1177
-
          Stage 1
714
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
757
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
422
703
-
-
1177
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
422
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
714
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
722
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
14.3
0
1.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
481
1177
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.199 0.042
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
14.3
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0.1
-
1035 of 1252

--- page 1036 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
106
36
81
0
0
0
9
488
8
0
187
40
Future Volume (veh/h)
106
36
81
0
0
0
9
488
8
0
187
40
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
115
39
88
0
0
0
10
530
9
0
203
43
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
208
63
109
0
359
0
63
1260
21
0
1034
219
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.67
0.67
0.67
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
660
331
566
0
1870
0
10
1890
32
0
1551
329
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
242
0
0
0
0
0
549
0
0
0
0
246
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1557
0
0
0
1870
0
1933
0
0
0
0
1880
Q Serve(g_s), s
8.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
9.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.48
0.36
0.00
0.00
0.02
0.02
0.00
0.17
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
380
0
0
0
359
0
1345
0
0
0
0
1253
V/C Ratio(X)
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.20
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
710
0
0
0
760
0
1345
0
0
0
0
1253
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
25.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
25.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
242
0
549
246
Approach Delay, s/veh
25.7
0.0
6.0
0.4
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
17.1
47.9
17.1
47.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
26.4
29.4
26.4
29.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
11.6
2.0
0.0
10.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.8
0.9
0.0
2.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
9.2
HCM 6th LOS
A
1036 of 1252

--- page 1037 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
392
327
0
Future Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
392
327
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
10
38
0
426
355
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
781
355
355
0
-
0
          Stage 1
355
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
426
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
351
684
1215
-
-
-
          Stage 1
700
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
648
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
351
684
1215
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
351
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
700
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
648
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.9
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1215
-
573
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.083
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.9
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1037 of 1252

--- page 1038 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
18
114
35
39
135
72
44
407
63
25
283
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
18
114
35
39
135
72
44
407
63
25
283
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1900
1885
1900
1976
1961
1945
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
20
124
38
42
147
78
48
442
68
27
308
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
124
705
202
167
558
273
94
524
77
83
564
58
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.55
0.55
0.55
0.34
0.34
0.34
0.34
0.34
0.34
Sat Flow, veh/h
114
1281
368
187
1015
496
99
1529
226
69
1649
169
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
182
0
0
267
0
0
558
0
0
368
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1763
0
0
1697
0
0
1855
0
0
1886
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
18.2
0.0
0.0
10.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.11
0.21
0.16
0.29
0.09
0.12
0.07
0.09
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1031
0
0
998
0
0
695
0
0
705
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.00
0.80
0.00
0.00
0.52
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1031
0
0
998
0
0
923
0
0
934
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.65
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.7
0.0
0.0
19.9
0.0
0.0
17.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.7
0.0
0.0
2.8
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.1
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
7.8
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
8.4
0.0
0.0
22.7
0.0
0.0
17.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
182
267
558
368
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.2
8.4
22.7
17.6
Approach LOS
A
A
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
39.3
25.7
39.3
25.7
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
27.5
30.5
27.5
30.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
12.0
7.1
20.2
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
1.5
1.1
2.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
15.6
HCM 6th LOS
B
1038 of 1252

--- page 1039 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
38
110
97
19
128
56
37
507
47
10
109
22
Future Volume (veh/h)
38
110
97
19
128
56
37
507
47
10
109
22
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1811
1885
1841
1976
1945
1976
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
41
120
105
21
139
61
40
551
51
11
118
24
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
6
1
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
98
165
130
78
228
93
102
1147
103
105
1016
198
Arrive On Green
0.19
0.19
0.19
0.25
0.25
0.25
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.69
0.69
0.69
Sat Flow, veh/h
179
876
689
92
1209
496
64
1673
150
67
1482
288
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
266
0
0
221
0
0
642
0
0
153
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1744
0
0
1796
0
0
1886
0
0
1837
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
2.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
9.3
0.0
0.0
7.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.15
0.39
0.10
0.28
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.16
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
393
0
0
399
0
0
1352
0
0
1319
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.00
0.00
0.55
0.00
0.00
0.47
0.00
0.00
0.12
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
736
0
0
756
0
0
1352
0
0
1319
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.96
0.00
0.00
0.91
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
25.1
0.0
0.0
22.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.8
0.0
0.0
2.8
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
25.9
0.0
0.0
22.9
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
3.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
266
221
642
153
Approach Delay, s/veh
25.9
22.9
1.1
3.7
Approach LOS
C
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
16.4
48.6
16.4
48.6
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
25.9
30.9
25.9
30.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
11.3
3.8
9.1
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
0.6
0.8
3.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.3
HCM 6th LOS
B
1039 of 1252

--- page 1040 ---
Appendix E 
Cumulative 
Conditions Synchro 
Worksheets
1040 of 1252

--- page 1041 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
82
30
221
53
6
243
Future Vol, veh/h
82
30
221
53
6
243
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
89
33
240
58
7
264
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
547
269
0
0
298
0
          Stage 1
269
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
278
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
483
764
-
-
1263
-
          Stage 1
765
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
757
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
480
764
-
-
1263
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
480
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
765
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
752
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.7
0
0.2
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
533
1263
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.228 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.7
7.9
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.9
0
-
1041 of 1252

--- page 1042 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
71
14
102
0
0
0
17
572
3
0
220
33
Future Volume (veh/h)
71
14
102
0
0
0
17
572
3
0
220
33
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
77
15
111
0
0
0
18
622
3
0
239
36
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
176
43
156
0
340
0
80
1237
6
0
1072
161
Arrive On Green
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.65
0.65
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
474
236
856
0
1870
0
20
1901
9
0
1646
248
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
203
0
0
0
0
0
643
0
0
0
0
275
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1565
0
0
0
1870
0
1930
0
0
0
0
1894
Q Serve(g_s), s
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
6.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.38
0.55
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.00
0.13
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
375
0
0
0
340
0
1323
0
0
0
0
1233
V/C Ratio(X)
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.49
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.22
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
776
0
0
0
830
0
1323
0
0
0
0
1233
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
203
0
643
275
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.5
0.0
6.3
0.4
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
24.4
21.4
24.4
21.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
8.6
2.0
0.0
11.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
1.0
0.0
2.2
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
7.6
HCM 6th LOS
A
Notes
User approved pedestrian interval to be less than phase max green.
1042 of 1252

--- page 1043 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
352
328
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
352
328
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
14
0
383
357
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
740
357
357
0
-
0
          Stage 1
357
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
383
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
371
685
1213
-
-
-
          Stage 1
699
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
679
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
371
685
1213
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
371
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
699
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
679
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.5
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1213
-
571
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.032
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.5
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1043 of 1252

--- page 1044 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
21
238
36
51
314
92
21
304
84
35
272
18
Future Volume (veh/h)
21
238
36
51
314
92
21
304
84
35
272
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1781
1856
1707
1900
1870
1841
1884
1976
1945
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
23
259
39
55
341
100
23
330
91
38
296
20
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
8
3
13
0
2
4
6
0
2
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
102
881
126
138
746
205
82
412
110
104
462
30
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.59
0.59
0.59
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.28
Sat Flow, veh/h
54
1497
214
111
1267
348
47
1449
386
113
1625
104
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
321
0
0
496
0
0
444
0
0
354
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1765
0
0
1727
0
0
1881
0
0
1841
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.6
0.0
0.0
12.0
0.0
0.0
9.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.07
0.12
0.11
0.20
0.05
0.20
0.11
0.06
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1108
0
0
1089
0
0
604
0
0
596
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.29
0.00
0.00
0.46
0.00
0.00
0.74
0.00
0.00
0.59
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1108
0
0
1089
0
0
933
0
0
908
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.20
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
18.4
0.0
0.0
17.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.9
0.0
0.0
4.9
0.0
0.0
3.6
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
7.8
0.0
0.0
19.0
0.0
0.0
17.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
321
496
444
354
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.1
7.8
19.0
17.7
Approach LOS
A
A
B
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
35.9
19.1
35.9
19.1
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
22.5
25.5
22.5
25.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
11.1
10.6
14.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.3
1.4
1.9
1.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.5
HCM 6th LOS
B
1044 of 1252

--- page 1045 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
122
258
120
27
243
90
43
585
41
14
139
14
Future Volume (veh/h)
122
258
120
27
243
90
43
585
41
14
139
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1811
1811
1870
1900
1885
1796
1899
1930
1899
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
133
280
130
29
264
98
47
636
45
15
151
15
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
6
6
2
0
1
7
5
3
5
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
199
333
142
95
495
174
102
776
53
98
740
69
Arrive On Green
0.39
0.39
0.39
0.78
0.78
0.78
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.46
0.46
0.46
Sat Flow, veh/h
300
853
363
64
1268
446
69
1687
116
59
1607
151
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
543
0
0
391
0
0
728
0
0
181
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1515
0
0
1778
0
0
1872
0
0
1817
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
13.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
18.5
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
7.1
0.0
0.0
3.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.24
0.24
0.07
0.25
0.06
0.06
0.08
0.08
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
674
0
0
765
0
0
931
0
0
907
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.81
0.00
0.00
0.51
0.00
0.00
0.78
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
737
0
0
839
0
0
931
0
0
907
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.84
0.00
0.00
0.86
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
15.5
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
8.9
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.4
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
5.6
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
6.6
0.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
2.1
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
20.9
0.0
0.0
4.3
0.0
0.0
7.1
0.0
0.0
9.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
543
391
728
181
Approach Delay, s/veh
20.9
4.3
7.1
9.4
Approach LOS
C
A
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
25.6
29.4
25.6
29.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
23.9
22.9
23.9
22.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.5
5.1
6.6
9.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
0.6
1.7
3.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.8
HCM 6th LOS
B
1045 of 1252

--- page 1046 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
63
28
242
95
38
140
Future Vol, veh/h
63
28
242
95
38
140
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
68
30
263
103
41
152
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
549
315
0
0
366
0
          Stage 1
315
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
234
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
482
719
-
-
1193
-
          Stage 1
727
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
794
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
464
719
-
-
1193
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
464
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
727
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
764
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.5
0
1.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
521
1193
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
0.19 0.035
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.5
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0.1
-
1046 of 1252

--- page 1047 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
134
39
102
0
0
0
11
713
10
0
272
50
Future Volume (veh/h)
134
39
102
0
0
0
11
713
10
0
272
50
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
146
42
111
0
0
0
12
775
11
0
296
54
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
242
64
132
0
431
0
62
1191
17
0
1002
183
Arrive On Green
0.23
0.23
0.23
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
693
279
574
0
1870
0
9
1897
27
0
1596
291
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
299
0
0
0
0
0
798
0
0
0
0
350
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1546
0
0
0
1870
0
1933
0
0
0
0
1887
Q Serve(g_s), s
10.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
12.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
16.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.49
0.37
0.00
0.00
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.15
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
438
0
0
0
431
0
1270
0
0
0
0
1185
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.63
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.30
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
707
0
0
0
760
0
1270
0
0
0
0
1185
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
23.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
4.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
299
0
798
350
Approach Delay, s/veh
24.5
0.0
10.0
0.6
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
19.6
45.4
19.6
45.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
26.4
29.4
26.4
29.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
14.0
2.0
0.0
18.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
1.4
0.0
3.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.7
HCM 6th LOS
B
1047 of 1252

--- page 1048 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.8
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
385
304
0
Future Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
385
304
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
11
41
0
418
330
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
748
330
330
0
-
0
          Stage 1
330
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
418
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
367
707
1241
-
-
-
          Stage 1
720
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
653
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
367
707
1241
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
367
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
720
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
653
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.7
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1241
-
593
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.088
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1048 of 1252

--- page 1049 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
26
216
44
50
255
103
52
369
75
36
279
43
Future Volume (veh/h)
26
216
44
50
255
103
52
369
75
36
279
43
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1900
1885
1900
1976
1961
1945
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
28
235
48
54
277
112
57
401
82
39
303
47
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
107
792
153
135
643
242
104
479
93
96
502
74
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.56
0.56
0.56
0.33
0.33
0.33
0.33
0.33
0.33
Sat Flow, veh/h
84
1419
274
130
1152
434
129
1433
280
104
1503
221
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
311
0
0
443
0
0
540
0
0
389
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1777
0
0
1715
0
0
1842
0
0
1828
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.4
0.0
0.0
17.7
0.0
0.0
11.2
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.09
0.15
0.12
0.25
0.11
0.15
0.10
0.12
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1052
0
0
1019
0
0
677
0
0
672
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.30
0.00
0.00
0.43
0.00
0.00
0.80
0.00
0.00
0.58
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1052
0
0
1019
0
0
914
0
0
908
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.34
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.4
0.0
0.0
20.1
0.0
0.0
18.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
2.5
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.1
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
7.5
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
9.8
0.0
0.0
22.7
0.0
0.0
18.3
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
311
443
540
389
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.2
9.8
22.7
18.3
Approach LOS
A
A
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
39.8
25.2
39.8
25.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
27.5
30.5
27.5
30.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
13.2
11.4
19.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.7
1.9
2.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.1
HCM 6th LOS
B
1049 of 1252

--- page 1050 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
63
202
162
30
233
90
62
743
77
17
160
37
Future Volume (veh/h)
63
202
162
30
233
90
62
743
77
17
160
37
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1811
1885
1841
1976
1945
1976
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
68
220
176
33
253
98
67
808
84
18
174
40
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
6
1
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
118
270
198
86
376
138
108
914
93
96
803
175
Arrive On Green
0.31
0.31
0.31
0.61
0.61
0.61
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.57
0.57
0.57
Sat Flow, veh/h
178
879
646
83
1225
448
87
1614
163
65
1418
309
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
464
0
0
384
0
0
959
0
0
232
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1703
0
0
1756
0
0
1864
0
0
1791
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
7.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
16.6
0.0
0.0
9.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.9
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.15
0.38
0.09
0.26
0.07
0.09
0.08
0.17
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
587
0
0
599
0
0
1115
0
0
1075
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.79
0.00
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.86
0.00
0.00
0.22
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
733
0
0
753
0
0
1115
0
0
1075
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.86
0.00
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.1
0.0
0.0
10.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.9
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
3.6
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
6.8
0.0
0.0
2.5
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.8
0.0
0.0
10.9
0.0
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
7.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
464
384
959
232
Approach Delay, s/veh
24.8
10.9
6.4
7.4
Approach LOS
C
B
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
24.1
40.9
24.1
40.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
25.9
30.9
25.9
30.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
18.6
5.9
11.3
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.0
1.5
5.9
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.5
HCM 6th LOS
B
1050 of 1252

--- page 1051 ---
Appendix F 
Cumulative Plus 
Project Synchro 
Worksheets
1051 of 1252

--- page 1052 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.1
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
82
54
256
53
22
250
Future Vol, veh/h
82
54
256
53
22
250
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
89
59
278
58
24
272
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
627
307
0
0
336
0
          Stage 1
307
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
320
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
432
727
-
-
1223
-
          Stage 1
733
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
723
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
422
727
-
-
1223
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
422
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
733
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
706
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15
0
0.6
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
506
1223
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.292
0.02
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.2
0.1
-
1052 of 1252

--- page 1053 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
71
14
102
0
0
0
17
573
3
0
220
33
Future Volume (veh/h)
71
14
102
0
0
0
17
573
3
0
220
33
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
77
15
111
0
0
0
18
623
3
0
239
36
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
176
43
156
0
340
0
80
1237
6
0
1072
161
Arrive On Green
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.65
0.65
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
474
236
856
0
1870
0
20
1901
9
0
1646
248
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
203
0
0
0
0
0
644
0
0
0
0
275
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1565
0
0
0
1870
0
1930
0
0
0
0
1894
Q Serve(g_s), s
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
6.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.38
0.55
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.00
0.13
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
375
0
0
0
340
0
1323
0
0
0
0
1233
V/C Ratio(X)
0.54
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.49
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.22
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
776
0
0
0
830
0
1323
0
0
0
0
1233
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
203
0
644
275
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.5
0.0
6.3
0.4
Approach LOS
C
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
14.6
40.4
14.6
40.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
24.4
21.4
24.4
21.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
8.6
2.0
0.0
11.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
1.0
0.0
2.2
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
7.6
HCM 6th LOS
A
Notes
User approved pedestrian interval to be less than phase max green.
1053 of 1252

--- page 1054 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
411
351
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
411
351
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
14
0
447
382
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
829
382
382
0
-
0
          Stage 1
382
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
447
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
328
663
1188
-
-
-
          Stage 1
680
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
633
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
328
663
1188
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
328
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
680
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
633
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1188
-
535
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.035
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
12
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1054 of 1252

--- page 1055 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
21
238
41
58
314
92
22
324
88
35
322
18
Future Volume (veh/h)
21
238
41
58
314
92
22
324
88
35
322
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1781
1856
1707
1900
1870
1841
1884
1976
1945
1899
1961
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
23
259
45
63
341
100
24
352
96
38
350
20
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
8
3
13
0
2
4
6
0
2
5
1
0
Cap, veh/h
99
844
139
149
713
195
83
434
114
101
503
27
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.57
0.57
0.57
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
Sat Flow, veh/h
51
1469
243
131
1242
340
46
1457
384
99
1686
92
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
327
0
0
504
0
0
472
0
0
408
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1762
0
0
1712
0
0
1887
0
0
1877
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.1
0.0
0.0
12.7
0.0
0.0
10.5
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.07
0.14
0.12
0.20
0.05
0.20
0.09
0.05
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
1082
0
0
1057
0
0
632
0
0
631
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.30
0.00
0.00
0.48
0.00
0.00
0.75
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1082
0
0
1057
0
0
934
0
0
926
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.19
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.9
0.0
0.0
18.0
0.0
0.0
17.2
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.1
0.0
0.0
5.2
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
8.4
0.0
0.0
18.7
0.0
0.0
17.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
327
504
472
408
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.1
8.4
18.7
17.6
Approach LOS
A
A
B
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
35.1
19.9
35.1
19.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
22.5
25.5
22.5
25.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
12.5
11.1
14.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.5
1.9
1.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.9
HCM 6th LOS
B
1055 of 1252

--- page 1056 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
122
262
120
27
244
90
43
585
42
14
139
14
Future Volume (veh/h)
122
262
120
27
244
90
43
585
42
14
139
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1811
1811
1870
1900
1885
1796
1899
1930
1899
1976
1930
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
133
285
130
29
265
98
47
636
46
15
151
15
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
6
6
2
0
1
7
5
3
5
0
3
0
Cap, veh/h
198
338
141
96
500
175
101
770
54
98
735
69
Arrive On Green
0.39
0.39
0.39
0.79
0.79
0.79
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.46
0.46
0.46
Sat Flow, veh/h
297
859
359
64
1269
444
69
1684
118
59
1608
151
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
548
0
0
392
0
0
729
0
0
181
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1515
0
0
1778
0
0
1872
0
0
1817
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
14.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
18.7
0.0
0.0
4.5
0.0
0.0
7.6
0.0
0.0
3.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.24
0.24
0.07
0.25
0.06
0.06
0.08
0.08
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
678
0
0
770
0
0
925
0
0
902
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.81
0.00
0.00
0.51
0.00
0.00
0.79
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
737
0
0
839
0
0
925
0
0
902
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.82
0.00
0.00
0.86
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
15.5
0.0
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
1.6
0.0
0.0
9.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.6
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
5.8
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
6.6
0.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
21.0
0.0
0.0
4.2
0.0
0.0
7.4
0.0
0.0
9.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
548
392
729
181
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.0
4.2
7.4
9.5
Approach LOS
C
A
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
25.8
29.2
25.8
29.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
23.9
22.9
23.9
22.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.7
5.1
6.5
9.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.6
1.7
3.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.0
HCM 6th LOS
B
1056 of 1252

--- page 1057 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
63
28
278
95
47
177
Future Vol, veh/h
63
28
278
95
47
177
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
68
30
302
103
51
192
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
648
354
0
0
405
0
          Stage 1
354
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
294
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
420
683
-
-
1154
-
          Stage 1
697
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
744
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
399
683
-
-
1154
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
399
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
697
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
708
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15
0
1.7
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
458
1154
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.216 0.044
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15
8.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0.1
-
1057 of 1252

--- page 1058 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 3
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
134
39
102
0
0
0
11
714
10
0
273
50
Future Volume (veh/h)
134
39
102
0
0
0
11
714
10
0
273
50
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1945
1945
1939
1939
1939
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
146
42
111
0
0
0
12
776
11
0
297
54
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
242
64
132
0
431
0
62
1191
17
0
1003
182
Arrive On Green
0.23
0.23
0.23
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.63
0.63
0.63
0.00
1.00
1.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
693
279
574
0
1870
0
9
1897
27
0
1597
290
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
299
0
0
0
0
0
799
0
0
0
0
351
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1546
0
0
0
1870
0
1933
0
0
0
0
1887
Q Serve(g_s), s
10.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
12.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
16.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.49
0.37
0.00
0.00
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.15
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
438
0
0
0
431
0
1270
0
0
0
0
1185
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.63
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.30
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
707
0
0
0
760
0
1270
0
0
0
0
1185
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.98
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
23.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
4.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
299
0
799
351
Approach Delay, s/veh
24.5
0.0
10.0
0.6
Approach LOS
C
B
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
19.6
45.4
19.6
45.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
26.4
29.4
26.4
29.4
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
14.0
2.0
0.0
18.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
1.4
0.0
3.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
10.7
HCM 6th LOS
B
1058 of 1252

--- page 1059 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
421
350
0
Future Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
421
350
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
11
41
0
458
380
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
838
380
380
0
-
0
          Stage 1
380
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
458
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
324
662
1190
-
-
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
625
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
324
662
1190
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
324
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
625
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.3
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1190
-
544
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.096
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
12.3
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1059 of 1252

--- page 1060 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 6
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
26
216
48
54
255
103
60
435
86
36
304
43
Future Volume (veh/h)
26
216
48
54
255
103
60
435
86
36
304
43
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1900
1885
1900
1976
1961
1945
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
28
235
52
59
277
112
65
473
93
39
330
47
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
100
717
150
135
580
218
110
548
103
96
580
78
Arrive On Green
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.51
0.51
0.51
0.38
0.38
0.38
0.38
0.38
0.38
Sat Flow, veh/h
78
1406
294
142
1138
427
128
1433
270
94
1515
205
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
315
0
0
448
0
0
631
0
0
416
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1778
0
0
1707
0
0
1831
0
0
1814
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.5
0.0
0.0
20.8
0.0
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.09
0.17
0.13
0.25
0.10
0.15
0.09
0.11
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
967
0
0
933
0
0
762
0
0
755
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.48
0.00
0.00
0.83
0.00
0.00
0.55
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
967
0
0
933
0
0
914
0
0
905
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.34
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.4
0.0
0.0
18.6
0.0
0.0
15.8
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.3
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.1
0.0
0.0
4.1
0.0
0.0
9.1
0.0
0.0
4.5
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.3
0.0
0.0
12.2
0.0
0.0
23.2
0.0
0.0
16.0
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
B
A
A
C
A
A
B
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
315
448
631
416
Approach Delay, s/veh
0.3
12.2
23.2
16.0
Approach LOS
A
B
C
B
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
36.6
28.4
36.6
28.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
27.5
30.5
27.5
30.5
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
13.1
12.5
22.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.8
1.9
2.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
14.8
HCM 6th LOS
B
1060 of 1252

--- page 1061 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 8
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
63
205
162
31
238
92
62
743
78
17
160
37
Future Volume (veh/h)
63
205
162
31
238
92
62
743
78
17
160
37
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1900
1900
1900
1811
1885
1841
1976
1945
1976
1976
1976
1976
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
68
223
176
34
259
100
67
808
85
18
174
40
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
0
0
6
1
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
Cap, veh/h
118
273
198
86
378
138
108
911
93
96
801
174
Arrive On Green
0.31
0.31
0.31
0.62
0.62
0.62
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.56
0.56
0.56
Sat Flow, veh/h
176
885
642
84
1222
446
87
1612
165
65
1418
309
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
467
0
0
393
0
0
960
0
0
232
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1703
0
0
1753
0
0
1863
0
0
1791
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
7.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
16.7
0.0
0.0
9.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.9
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.15
0.38
0.09
0.25
0.07
0.09
0.08
0.17
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
589
0
0
602
0
0
1112
0
0
1072
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.79
0.00
0.00
0.65
0.00
0.00
0.86
0.00
0.00
0.22
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
733
0
0
752
0
0
1112
0
0
1072
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.82
0.00
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
21.1
0.0
0.0
10.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
3.7
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
6.6
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
6.9
0.0
0.0
2.5
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.8
0.0
0.0
11.0
0.0
0.0
6.6
0.0
0.0
7.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
467
393
960
232
Approach Delay, s/veh
24.8
11.0
6.6
7.5
Approach LOS
C
B
A
A
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
24.2
40.8
24.2
40.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
25.9
30.9
25.9
30.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
18.7
5.9
11.7
2.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.0
1.6
5.9
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.7
HCM 6th LOS
B
1061 of 1252

--- page 1062 ---
Appendix G 95th 
Percentile Queue 
Length Synchro 
Worksheets
1062 of 1252

--- page 1063 ---
Existing AM/PM 95th 
Queues
1063 of 1252

--- page 1064 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.3
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
45
228
51
42
243
Future Vol, veh/h
81
45
228
51
42
243
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
49
248
55
46
264
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
632
276
0
0
303
0
          Stage 1
276
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
356
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
429
757
-
-
1258
-
          Stage 1
759
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
695
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
411
757
-
-
1258
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
411
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
759
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
665
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15.1
0
1.2
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
491
1258
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.279 0.036
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15.1
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.1
0.1
-
1064 of 1252

--- page 1065 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
266
75
418
173
v/c Ratio
0.66
0.18
0.35
0.15
Control Delay
22.3
15.2
7.6
5.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
22.3
15.2
7.6
5.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
63
20
56
26
Queue Length 95th (ft)
109
39
135
53
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
212
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
703
771
1195
1190
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.38
0.10
0.35
0.15
Intersection Summary
1065 of 1252

--- page 1066 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.9
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
21
63
36
284
284
10
Future Vol, veh/h
21
63
36
284
284
10
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
23
68
39
309
309
11
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
702
315
320
0
-
0
          Stage 1
315
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
387
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
392
724
1251
-
-
-
          Stage 1
732
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
377
724
1251
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
377
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
704
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.2
0.9
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1251
-
589
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.031
- 0.155
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
8
0
12.2
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
0.5
-
-
1066 of 1252

--- page 1067 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
141
233
349
295
v/c Ratio
0.14
0.23
0.65
0.58
Control Delay
2.2
5.5
22.4
21.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
2.2
5.5
22.4
21.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
5
22
95
84
Queue Length 95th (ft)
17
66
140
124
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
1028
1033
938
915
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.14
0.23
0.37
0.32
Intersection Summary
1067 of 1252

--- page 1068 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Existing 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
243
167
438
111
v/c Ratio
0.64
0.39
0.36
0.09
Control Delay
22.8
10.7
4.0
5.5
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
Total Delay
22.8
10.7
4.2
5.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)
60
22
32
11
Queue Length 95th (ft)
103
38
55
36
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
652
724
1212
1201
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
213
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.37
0.23
0.44
0.09
Intersection Summary
1068 of 1252

--- page 1069 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
269
90
52
198
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
269
90
52
198
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
292
98
57
215
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
670
341
0
0
390
0
          Stage 1
341
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
329
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
407
695
-
-
1169
-
          Stage 1
707
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
716
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
385
695
-
-
1169
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
385
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
707
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
677
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15.3
0
1.7
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
446
1169
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.214 0.048
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15.3
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0.2
-
1069 of 1252

--- page 1070 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
368
118
578
245
v/c Ratio
0.80
0.39
0.51
0.22
Control Delay
31.8
19.7
12.4
10.1
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
Total Delay
31.8
19.7
12.4
10.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
121
38
129
54
Queue Length 95th (ft)
184
70
261
91
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
212
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
610
408
1127
1117
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
465
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.60
0.29
0.51
0.38
Intersection Summary
1070 of 1252

--- page 1071 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
32
120
45
318
226
27
Future Vol, veh/h
32
120
45
318
226
27
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
35
130
49
346
246
29
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
705
261
275
0
-
0
          Stage 1
261
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
444
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
390
774
1300
-
-
-
          Stage 1
776
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
635
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
372
774
1300
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
372
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
635
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.7
1
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1300
-
631
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.038
- 0.262
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
7.9
0
12.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
1
-
-
1071 of 1252

--- page 1072 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
184
268
450
302
v/c Ratio
0.18
0.27
0.75
0.50
Control Delay
4.3
7.8
26.9
19.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
4.3
7.8
26.9
19.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
16
38
153
93
Queue Length 95th (ft)
38
98
205
131
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
1020
989
918
913
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.18
0.27
0.49
0.33
Intersection Summary
1072 of 1252

--- page 1073 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Existing 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Existing
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
292
218
644
156
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.53
0.51
0.12
Control Delay
30.2
16.9
5.0
5.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
Total Delay
30.2
16.9
5.0
5.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
88
47
58
18
Queue Length 95th (ft)
144
71
100
51
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
610
660
1260
1252
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
51
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.48
0.33
0.53
0.12
Intersection Summary
1073 of 1252

--- page 1074 ---
Baseline AM/PM 95th 
Queues
1074 of 1252

--- page 1075 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
30
207
51
6
228
Future Vol, veh/h
81
30
207
51
6
228
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
33
225
55
7
248
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
515
253
0
0
280
0
          Stage 1
253
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
262
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
505
780
-
-
1283
-
          Stage 1
778
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
771
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
502
780
-
-
1283
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
502
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
778
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
766
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.3
0
0.2
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
556
1283
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.217 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.3
7.8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0
-
1075 of 1252

--- page 1076 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
157
395
173
v/c Ratio
0.46
0.30
0.13
Control Delay
15.1
5.3
3.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
15.1
5.3
3.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
21
45
19
Queue Length 95th (ft)
62
92
34
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
674
1302
1287
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.23
0.30
0.13
Intersection Summary
1076 of 1252

--- page 1077 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
330
308
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
330
308
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
13
0
359
335
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
694
335
335
0
-
0
          Stage 1
335
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
359
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
396
705
1236
-
-
-
          Stage 1
716
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
697
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
396
705
1236
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
396
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
716
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
697
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.3
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1236
-
590
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.029
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.3
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1077 of 1252

--- page 1078 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
140
230
379
312
v/c Ratio
0.14
0.23
0.68
0.58
Control Delay
2.7
5.8
22.7
20.8
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
2.7
5.8
22.7
20.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)
5
23
105
87
Queue Length 95th (ft)
18
67
150
126
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
1008
1013
943
916
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.14
0.23
0.40
0.34
Intersection Summary
1078 of 1252

--- page 1079 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background- No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background- No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
240
166
433
108
v/c Ratio
0.63
0.40
0.36
0.09
Control Delay
22.6
10.8
4.3
5.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
Total Delay
22.6
10.8
4.5
5.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
59
22
31
11
Queue Length 95th (ft)
102
37
54
35
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
655
724
1216
1205
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
257
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.37
0.23
0.45
0.09
Intersection Summary
1079 of 1252

--- page 1080 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
224
90
36
129
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
224
90
36
129
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
243
98
39
140
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
510
292
0
0
341
0
          Stage 1
292
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
218
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
509
741
-
-
1218
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
808
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
491
741
-
-
1218
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
491
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
780
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13
0
1.8
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
548
1218
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.175 0.032
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0.1
-
1080 of 1252

--- page 1081 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
242
548
245
v/c Ratio
0.70
0.42
0.19
Control Delay
28.4
7.9
6.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.4
Total Delay
28.4
7.9
7.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)
70
87
50
Queue Length 95th (ft)
121
197
90
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
600
1303
1281
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
626
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.40
0.42
0.37
Intersection Summary
1081 of 1252

--- page 1082 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
356
281
0
Future Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
356
281
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
10
38
0
387
305
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
692
305
305
0
-
0
          Stage 1
305
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
387
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
397
731
1267
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
397
731
1267
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
397
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
740
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
676
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.2
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1267
-
624
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.077
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.2
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.2
-
-
1082 of 1252

--- page 1083 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
178
263
467
340
v/c Ratio
0.18
0.27
0.75
0.55
Control Delay
5.3
8.0
26.7
20.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
5.3
8.0
26.7
20.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
15
38
159
107
Queue Length 95th (ft)
45
98
211
146
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
1005
979
921
920
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.18
0.27
0.51
0.37
Intersection Summary
1083 of 1252

--- page 1084 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
262
213
641
153
v/c Ratio
0.70
0.58
0.49
0.12
Control Delay
27.5
19.3
4.5
4.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
Total Delay
27.5
19.3
4.7
4.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
74
48
66
15
Queue Length 95th (ft)
127
73
94
45
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
648
656
1315
1306
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
109
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.40
0.32
0.53
0.12
Intersection Summary
1084 of 1252

--- page 1085 ---
Baseline Plus Project 
AM/PM 95th Queues
1085 of 1252

--- page 1086 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.1
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
81
54
242
51
22
235
Future Vol, veh/h
81
54
242
51
22
235
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
88
59
263
55
24
255
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
594
291
0
0
318
0
          Stage 1
291
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
303
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
452
742
-
-
1242
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
737
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
442
742
-
-
1242
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
442
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
746
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
720
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
14.4
0
0.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
527
1242
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.278 0.019
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
14.4
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.1
0.1
-
1086 of 1252

--- page 1087 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
157
396
173
v/c Ratio
0.46
0.30
0.13
Control Delay
15.1
5.3
3.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
15.1
5.3
3.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
21
45
19
Queue Length 95th (ft)
62
92
34
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
674
1302
1287
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.23
0.30
0.13
Intersection Summary
1087 of 1252

--- page 1088 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
389
331
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
12
0
389
331
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
13
0
423
360
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
783
360
360
0
-
0
          Stage 1
360
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
423
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
350
682
1210
-
-
-
          Stage 1
696
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
650
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
350
682
1210
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
350
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
696
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
650
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.7
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1210
-
551
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.032
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1088 of 1252

--- page 1089 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
145
237
407
367
v/c Ratio
0.15
0.24
0.70
0.65
Control Delay
2.7
6.5
22.6
21.9
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
2.7
6.5
22.6
21.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)
5
26
112
104
Queue Length 95th (ft)
19
74
157
146
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
981
980
942
922
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.15
0.24
0.43
0.40
Intersection Summary
1089 of 1252

--- page 1090 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Background - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
244
167
434
108
v/c Ratio
0.64
0.39
0.36
0.09
Control Delay
22.8
10.5
4.4
5.5
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
Total Delay
22.8
10.5
4.6
5.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)
60
22
31
11
Queue Length 95th (ft)
104
37
54
35
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
656
724
1212
1201
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
253
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.37
0.23
0.45
0.09
Intersection Summary
1090 of 1252

--- page 1091 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
61
27
260
90
45
166
Future Vol, veh/h
61
27
260
90
45
166
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
66
29
283
98
49
180
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
610
332
0
0
381
0
          Stage 1
332
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
278
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
442
703
-
-
1177
-
          Stage 1
714
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
757
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
422
703
-
-
1177
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
422
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
714
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
722
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
14.3
0
1.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
481
1177
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.199 0.042
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
14.3
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0.1
-
1091 of 1252

--- page 1092 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
242
549
246
v/c Ratio
0.70
0.42
0.19
Control Delay
28.4
7.9
6.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.4
Total Delay
28.4
7.9
7.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)
70
87
50
Queue Length 95th (ft)
121
197
91
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
600
1303
1281
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
626
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.40
0.42
0.38
Intersection Summary
1092 of 1252

--- page 1093 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
392
327
0
Future Vol, veh/h
9
35
0
392
327
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
10
38
0
426
355
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
781
355
355
0
-
0
          Stage 1
355
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
426
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
351
684
1215
-
-
-
          Stage 1
700
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
648
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
351
684
1215
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
351
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
700
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
648
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.9
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1215
-
573
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.083
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.9
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1093 of 1252

--- page 1094 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
182
267
558
368
v/c Ratio
0.20
0.30
0.78
0.51
Control Delay
6.1
9.8
25.7
17.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
6.1
9.8
25.7
17.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
16
46
183
106
Queue Length 95th (ft)
47
109
244
145
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
920
893
915
926
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.20
0.30
0.61
0.40
Intersection Summary
1094 of 1252

--- page 1095 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Background - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Background - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
266
221
642
153
v/c Ratio
0.70
0.60
0.49
0.12
Control Delay
27.8
19.9
4.6
4.8
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
Total Delay
27.8
19.9
4.7
4.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)
76
50
66
15
Queue Length 95th (ft)
130
m87
95
46
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
646
655
1308
1300
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
108
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.41
0.34
0.54
0.12
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1095 of 1252

--- page 1096 ---
Cumulative AM/PM 
95th Queues
1096 of 1252

--- page 1097 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
82
30
221
53
6
243
Future Vol, veh/h
82
30
221
53
6
243
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
89
33
240
58
7
264
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
547
269
0
0
298
0
          Stage 1
269
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
278
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
483
764
-
-
1263
-
          Stage 1
765
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
757
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
480
764
-
-
1263
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
480
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
765
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
752
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.7
0
0.2
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
533
1263
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.228 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.7
7.9
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.9
0
-
1097 of 1252

--- page 1098 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
203
643
275
v/c Ratio
0.55
0.50
0.22
Control Delay
15.5
7.5
3.2
Queue Delay
0.0
0.6
0.0
Total Delay
15.5
8.1
3.2
Queue Length 50th (ft)
27
86
17
Queue Length 95th (ft)
72
192
m39
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
686
1281
1271
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
15
284
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.30
0.64
0.22
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1098 of 1252

--- page 1099 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
352
328
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
352
328
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
14
0
383
357
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
740
357
357
0
-
0
          Stage 1
357
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
383
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
371
685
1213
-
-
-
          Stage 1
699
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
679
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
371
685
1213
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
371
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
699
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
679
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.5
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1213
-
571
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.032
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.5
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1099 of 1252

--- page 1100 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
321
496
444
354
v/c Ratio
0.34
0.52
0.72
0.63
Control Delay
5.7
10.8
22.0
20.5
Queue Delay
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
6.0
10.8
22.0
20.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)
27
80
119
97
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m44
201
165
136
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
952
949
931
860
Starvation Cap Reductn
217
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.44
0.52
0.48
0.41
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1100 of 1252

--- page 1101 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - No Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
543
391
728
181
v/c Ratio
0.95
0.57
0.86
0.22
Control Delay
45.7
10.7
22.9
10.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
45.7
10.9
22.9
10.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
149
37
213
34
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#332
98
#409
68
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
590
710
847
824
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
45
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.92
0.59
0.86
0.22
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
1101 of 1252

--- page 1102 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
63
28
242
95
38
140
Future Vol, veh/h
63
28
242
95
38
140
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
68
30
263
103
41
152
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
549
315
0
0
366
0
          Stage 1
315
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
234
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
482
719
-
-
1193
-
          Stage 1
727
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
794
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
464
719
-
-
1193
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
464
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
727
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
764
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
13.5
0
1.7
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
521
1193
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
0.19 0.035
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
13.5
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
B
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0.1
-
1102 of 1252

--- page 1103 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
299
798
350
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.65
0.29
Control Delay
29.4
13.8
7.4
Queue Delay
0.0
1.2
0.5
Total Delay
29.4
15.0
7.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)
89
179
70
Queue Length 95th (ft)
143
#454
m126
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
599
1224
1209
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
472
Spillback Cap Reductn
5
218
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.50
0.79
0.47
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1103 of 1252

--- page 1104 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.8
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
385
304
0
Future Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
385
304
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
11
41
0
418
330
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
748
330
330
0
-
0
          Stage 1
330
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
418
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
367
707
1241
-
-
-
          Stage 1
720
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
653
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
367
707
1241
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
367
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
720
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
653
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
11.7
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1241
-
593
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.088
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
11.7
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1104 of 1252

--- page 1105 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
311
443
540
389
v/c Ratio
0.34
0.50
0.79
0.57
Control Delay
7.0
12.9
26.0
18.6
Queue Delay
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
7.3
12.9
26.0
18.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
35
96
177
114
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m72
211
235
156
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
918
892
892
891
Starvation Cap Reductn
235
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.46
0.50
0.61
0.44
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1105 of 1252

--- page 1106 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - No Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - No Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
464
384
959
232
v/c Ratio
0.89
0.71
0.90
0.23
Control Delay
37.6
19.4
23.4
8.9
Queue Delay
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.6
19.8
23.4
8.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)
146
72
348
41
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#279
135
#607
85
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
618
647
1065
1031
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
46
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.75
0.64
0.90
0.23
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
1106 of 1252

--- page 1107 ---
Cumulative Plus 
Project AM/PM 95th 
Queues
1107 of 1252

--- page 1108 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.1
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
82
54
256
53
22
250
Future Vol, veh/h
82
54
256
53
22
250
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
89
59
278
58
24
272
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
627
307
0
0
336
0
          Stage 1
307
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
320
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
432
727
-
-
1223
-
          Stage 1
733
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
723
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
422
727
-
-
1223
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
422
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
733
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
706
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15
0
0.6
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
506
1223
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.292
0.02
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
1.2
0.1
-
1108 of 1252

--- page 1109 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
203
644
275
v/c Ratio
0.55
0.50
0.22
Control Delay
15.5
7.5
3.1
Queue Delay
0.0
0.6
0.0
Total Delay
15.5
8.1
3.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)
27
86
16
Queue Length 95th (ft)
72
193
m39
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
686
1281
1271
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
15
284
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.30
0.65
0.22
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1109 of 1252

--- page 1110 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.3
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
411
351
0
Future Vol, veh/h
4
13
0
411
351
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
0
0
0
1
0
Mvmt Flow
4
14
0
447
382
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
829
382
382
0
-
0
          Stage 1
382
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
447
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.3
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5
3.3
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
328
663
1188
-
-
-
          Stage 1
680
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
633
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
328
663
1188
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
328
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
680
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
633
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1188
-
535
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.035
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
12
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.1
-
-
1110 of 1252

--- page 1111 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
327
504
472
408
v/c Ratio
0.35
0.55
0.73
0.68
Control Delay
6.0
11.9
22.1
21.3
Queue Delay
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
6.3
11.9
22.1
21.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
29
86
126
113
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m45
215
173
155
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
928
917
930
880
Starvation Cap Reductn
200
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.45
0.55
0.51
0.46
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1111 of 1252

--- page 1112 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/10/2022
Scenario 2 AM Cumulative - Plus Project 11:29 am 09/15/2022 AM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
548
392
729
181
v/c Ratio
0.96
0.57
0.86
0.22
Control Delay
46.4
10.8
23.3
10.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
46.4
11.0
23.3
10.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
150
37
213
34
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#336
105
#410
68
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
591
710
844
822
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
48
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.93
0.59
0.86
0.22
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
1112 of 1252

--- page 1113 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
5: E 5th Ave & Laurel Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
NWL NWR
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
63
28
278
95
47
177
Future Vol, veh/h
63
28
278
95
47
177
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
1
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
68
30
302
103
51
192
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
648
354
0
0
405
0
          Stage 1
354
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
294
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.62
6.32
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.62
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
420
683
-
-
1154
-
          Stage 1
697
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
744
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
399
683
-
-
1154
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
399
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
697
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
708
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
NW
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
15
0
1.7
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NET
NERNWLn1
SWL
SWT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
458
1154
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.216 0.044
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15
8.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0.1
-
1113 of 1252

--- page 1114 ---
Queues
7: E 4th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 2
Lane Group
SET
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
299
799
351
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.65
0.29
Control Delay
29.4
13.8
7.4
Queue Delay
0.0
1.2
0.5
Total Delay
29.4
15.0
7.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)
89
179
67
Queue Length 95th (ft)
143
#454
m126
Internal Link Dist (ft)
655
1008
209
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
599
1224
1209
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
472
Spillback Cap Reductn
5
220
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.50
0.80
0.48
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1114 of 1252

--- page 1115 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
9: E 5th Ave & Ellsworth Ave
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 4
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.7
Movement
SEL
SER
NEL
NET
SWT SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
421
350
0
Future Vol, veh/h
10
38
0
421
350
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
1
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
0
1
0
0
0
0
Mvmt Flow
11
41
0
458
380
0
 
Major/Minor
Minor2
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
838
380
380
0
-
0
          Stage 1
380
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
458
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.6
6.31
4.1
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.6
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.5 3.309
2.2
-
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
324
662
1190
-
-
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
625
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
324
662
1190
-
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
324
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
625
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
SE
NE
SW
HCM Control Delay, s
12.3
0
0
HCM LOS
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NEL
NET SELn1
SWT SWR
Capacity (veh/h)
1190
-
544
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.096
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
0
-
12.3
-
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
B
-
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
0.3
-
-
1115 of 1252

--- page 1116 ---
Queues
10: E 5th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 5
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
315
448
631
416
v/c Ratio
0.37
0.55
0.83
0.55
Control Delay
7.7
15.0
26.9
16.7
Queue Delay
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
8.1
15.0
26.9
16.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
40
110
204
114
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m72
214
296
169
Internal Link Dist (ft)
214
547
208
235
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
852
822
892
894
Starvation Cap Reductn
202
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.48
0.55
0.71
0.47
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1116 of 1252

--- page 1117 ---
Queues
11: E 4th Ave & S B St
10/07/2022
Scenario 1 PM Cumulative - Plus Project 1:37 pm 09/12/2022 PM Cumulative - Plus Project
Synchro 11 Report
Page 7
Lane Group
SET
NWT
NET
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
467
393
960
232
v/c Ratio
0.89
0.72
0.90
0.23
Control Delay
38.0
19.6
23.8
8.9
Queue Delay
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
38.0
20.0
23.8
8.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)
148
73
350
41
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#283
m142
#608
85
Internal Link Dist (ft)
667
214
209
237
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
617
645
1062
1029
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
47
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.76
0.66
0.90
0.23
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
1117 of 1252

--- page 1118 ---
TDM Plan 
October 2022 
 
 
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
Image source:  KSH  Architects
City of San Mateo 
24174201 
1118 of 1252

--- page 1119 ---
1119 of 1252

--- page 1120 ---
Steer has prepared this material for City of San Mateo. This material may only be used within the context and scope for 
which Steer has prepared it and may not be relied upon in part or whole by any third party or be used for any other 
purpose. Any person choosing to use any part of this material without the express and written permission of Steer shall be 
deemed to confirm their agreement to indemnify Steer for all loss or damage resulting therefrom. Steer has prepared this 
material using professional practices and procedures using information available to it at the time and as such any new 
information could alter the validity of the results and conclusions made. 
TDM Plan 
October 2022 
 
 
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
Prepared for: 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
 24174201 
   
1120 of 1252

--- page 1121 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 1 
Contents 
1 
Introduction ...................................................................................................................... 4 
Project Description ................................................................................................................... 4 
Demographic Travel Trends ..................................................................................................... 5 
2 
Site Assessment ................................................................................................................. 9 
Site Geography and Road Network .......................................................................................... 9 
Transit Services ....................................................................................................................... 12 
Nearby Attractions ................................................................................................................. 13 
Available TDM Services .......................................................................................................... 14 
3 
Project TDM Measures .................................................................................................... 15 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) Membership ............................................. 16 
TDM Coordinator .................................................................................................................... 16 
Institutionalizing TDM ............................................................................................................ 17 
New Resident and Employee Packets .................................................................................... 17 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage ............................................................................................ 19 
TDM Communications ............................................................................................................ 20 
GOPass and Way2GO Pass Provision ..................................................................................... 21 
Preferential Carpool and Vanpool Parking ............................................................................. 22 
4 
Optional TDM Measures .................................................................................................. 23 
Bike Education / Workshops .................................................................................................. 23 
Promotional Programs ........................................................................................................... 24 
Carshare.................................................................................................................................. 24 
5 
Impacts of Project TDM Measures ................................................................................... 26 
VMT Reduction Calculations .................................................................................................. 26 
Program Impacts .................................................................................................................... 26 
6 
Monitoring ...................................................................................................................... 29 
Annual Survey ......................................................................................................................... 29 
7 
Exhibits ............................................................................................................................ 30 
1121 of 1252

--- page 1122 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 2 
A. 
TDM ROI Calculator ......................................................................................................... 31 
A1 Regional Inputs .................................................................................................................. 32 
A2 Regional Travel, Environmental and Cost Benefit Factors ................................................ 33 
B. 
222 E 4th Avenue Site Assessment ................................................................................... 37 
 
 
Figures 
Figure 1 Zoning Map ........................................................................................................................... 5 
Figure 2 Commute mode split for Census Tract 6063 ........................................................................ 7 
Figure 3 Inflow and Outflow patterns ................................................................................................ 8 
Figure 4 Street Network ..................................................................................................................... 9 
Figure 5 Car-sheds from 222 E. 4th Avenue ...................................................................................... 10 
Figure 6 20-minute Pedestrian-shed for 222 E. 4th Avenue .............................................................. 11 
Figure 7 Existing Bicycle Network ..................................................................................................... 11 
Figure 8 Cycling Level of Stress ......................................................................................................... 12 
Figure 9 A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica ......................................................... 18 
Figure 10 Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica ........................................ 19 
Figure 11 Example Transportation Screen ........................................................................................ 20 
 
 
Tables 
Table 1 Proposed Project Attributes .................................................................................................. 5 
Table 2 Census Tract 6063 Demographics Characteristics ................................................................. 6 
Table 3 Distribution of job locations for residents of Census Tract 6063 .......................................... 7 
Table 4. Levels of Service for 222 E. 4th Avenue ............................................................................... 10 
Table 5. Caltrain Service ................................................................................................................... 13 
Table 6. SamTrans Service ................................................................................................................ 13 
Table 7 Proposed Project Net Trip Generation Calculations (Scenario 1 & 2) ................................. 15 
Table 8 Cumulative Program TDM Strategies ................................................................................... 26 
1122 of 1252

--- page 1123 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 3 
Table 9 Percentage of Annual Vehicle Trips Reduced ...................................................................... 27 
Table 10 Individual Strategies (Scenario 1) ...................................................................................... 27 
Table 11 Individual Strategies (Scenario 2) ...................................................................................... 28 
 
1123 of 1252

--- page 1124 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 4 
A Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan is a long-term management strategy for an 
organization or site that seeks to deliver sustainable transportation objectives. It is articulated in a 
document that is regularly reviewed by the implementing organization. It involves identifying an 
appropriate package of measures aimed at promoting sustainable travel, with an emphasis on 
reducing reliance on single occupancy car journeys and vehicle miles traveled (VMT). It can also 
assist in meeting other objectives such as increasing accessibility as well as reducing congestion, 
greenhouse gas and noise pollution.  
This TDM Plan was produced on behalf of the City of San Mateo for the 222 E. 4th Ave. project 
site, which is a planned mixed-used property owned by Lane Partners and developed by KSH 
Architects. 
Project Description  
The project site is a city block bounded by E. 4th Avenue to the northwest, S. B Street to the 
northeast, E. 5th Avenue to the southeast, and S. Ellsworth Avenue to the southwest. The project 
site is currently a grocery store spanning a whole city block. The project proposes demolishing the 
existing building at 222 E. 4th Avenue to construct a new 5-story mixed use building. The project 
includes:  
1. 8 one-bedroom and 2 studio units (total of 10 units)  
2. 104,554 sq. ft of office space  
3. 17,658 sq. ft of retail space 
4. 221 physical parking spaces, in a 2-level subterranean garage and 12,392 sq. ft of covered 
parking area. 
5. 1,455 sq. ft. open space 
6. 1,515 sq. ft. common usable open space.  
The project site is zoned as CBD/R – Central Business District with Residential Mixed-Use Overlay. 
As shown in Figure 1, the lots to the north and south are also zoned as CBD/R. The lots towards 
the northwest are zoned as CBD – Central Business. The lot to the southwest is zoned as R5 – 
Multiple Family Dwellings (High Density). There is a large area zoned as Open Space to the 
southwest of the project site.  
1 Introduction 
1124 of 1252

--- page 1125 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 5 
Figure 1 Zoning Map  
 
Source: City of San Mateo Planning 
The project site zoning allows for a FAR of 3.0; due to a state density bonus waiver the project will 
have a FAR of 3.1. The project site has an allowable height of 55’-0”; the developer has proposed a 
height of 74’-3” when measured to top of plate. 
Table 1 Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current 
Proposed  
Description  
Two story building – grocery 
store 
5 story multi-use building with 
residential, office, and retail 
space 
Square Footage 
49,478 sq. ft building 
152,533 sq. ft mixed-use building  
Zoning Designation 
CBD/R 
CBD/R 
Demographic Travel Trends  
The travel trends described in this section are based on information from the Census Bureau for 
the project’s census tract (6063). 
Demographics Insights  
The project site is located within Census Tract 6063. The Census Tract has a population of 4,110. 
The information outlined in Table 2 and Error! Reference source not found. below provides the 
general residents’ demographic profiles and travel behavior.  
            
1125 of 1252

--- page 1126 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 6 
Table 2 Census Tract 6063 Demographics Characteristics 
Category 
Characteristics 
Amount 
Age 
Under 18 
17% 
18 to 64 
57% 
Over 65 
26% 
Education  
Bachelor’s degree or higher 
48.5% 
Households  
Renter-Occupied Housing Units 
49% 
Number of households  
1,805 
Persons per household  
2.2 
Median household income  
$92,007 
Race 
White alone 
62% 
Asian alone 
29% 
Hispanic or Latino 
24% 
Black or African American 
3% 
Mixed 
4% 
Languages spoken 
Speaks English only  
53% 
Speaks a language other than English: Spanish  
19% 
Speaks a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 
7% 
Speaks a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island 
Languages 
18% 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov 
Commute Outlook  
Census Reporter data from 2019 indicates that majority (72%) of people that live within Census 
Tract 6063 drive alone to work. The data also reports that 21% of the population use sustainable 
modes of transportation such as public transit, carpooling and walking to commute to work, while 
5% of the population work from home. Of those that commute to work, the mean travel time is 
27.6 minutes. Of note, commuting patterns have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
may be in flux for some time as businesses gradually adjust their travel patterns. The post-
pandemic reality might result in new commuting patterns as more organizations implement 
hybrid and flexible working patterns. 
1126 of 1252

--- page 1127 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 7 
Figure 2 Commute mode split for Census Tract 6063 
 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers 16 and older)  
Where people work  
According to the ACS and as demonstrated in Table 3, residents in Census Tract 6063 commute to 
a variety of locations, with a majority commuting out of San Mateo. The City and County of San 
Francisco is the most common destination for commuters (20.6%) followed by the City of San 
Mateo (15.4%).  
Table 3 Distribution of job locations for residents of Census Tract 6063 
Job Location 
Count 
Share 
San Francisco, CA  
407 
20.6% 
San Mateo, CA  
305 
15.4% 
Redwood City, CA 
134 
6.8% 
Palo Alto, CA 
115 
5.8% 
South San Francisco, CA 
83 
4.2% 
Burlingame, CA 
69 
3.5% 
Foster City, CA 
62 
3.1% 
San Jose, CA 
53 
2.7% 
San Carlos, CA 
50 
2.5% 
Menlo Park, CA 
47 
2.4% 
All other locations  
650 
32.9% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
1,975 
100% 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers 16 and older)  
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 3, depicts those 1,862 individuals 
that commute out of the area and 8,091 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. 
The high inflow number signifies that the region is dominated by commercial and mixed-use land-
1127 of 1252

--- page 1128 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 8 
use types, with key employers including medical centers and downtown retail and restaurant 
establishments. A total of 113 individuals both live and work inside the census tract. 
Figure 3 Inflow and Outflow patterns 
 
Source: U.S Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
1128 of 1252

--- page 1129 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 9 
A site assessment was conducted as part of the TDM Plan development process. The site 
assessment included a description of the site’s geography and road network, pedestrian and 
bicycle infrastructure, transit services, nearby attractions, and existing TDM services. For the 
complete assessment, please refer to the 222 E 4th Avenue Background Assessment memo in 
Exhibit B. Key findings from the site assessment are as follows:  
Site Geography and Road Network 
The project site is located on a city block which currently consists of Draeger’s Market, a grocery 
store. The current structure will be demolished. The block is situated between E. 5th Ave. to the 
south, E. 4th Ave. to the north, S. Ellsworth Avenue to the West, and S. B Street to the east.  
The site is adjacent to E. 4th Avenue, a city-maintained street that feeds directly into two 
highways: U.S. Highway 101 to the east and the California State Route 82 (El Camino Real) to the 
west.   
• 
U.S. Highway 101 is a major federal highway that runs north-south along the entire west 
coast. It connects several major cities including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and San Jose 
• 
Route 82 connects to Interstate-880 (I-880) in San Jose and Interstate-280 (I-280) in San 
Francisco 
Both the U.S. Highway 101 and Route 82 provide easy access to California State Route 92, which 
runs east-west and runs over the San Mateo Bridge. This bridge bypasses the San Francisco Bay to 
connect San Mateo to the East Bay. 
Figure 4 Street Network 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Public Works 
            
2 Site Assessment 
1129 of 1252

--- page 1130 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 10 
 
Figure 5 Car-sheds from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Free Flow: 
20-minute car-shed from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Rush hour: 
20-minute car-shed from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Source: Walkscore.com 
The intersection at B Street and 4th Avenue was included in the San Mateo Existing Conditions 
Circulation Report1. As recorded in October 2018, the intersection maintains a “B” level of service 
(LOS) in the AM and PM Peak hours.  
Table 4. Levels of Service for 222 E. 4th Avenue 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service 
 
Year 2018 Conditions 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Delay  
LOS 
Delay 
LOS  
B Street and 4th Avenue  
11.0 
B 
11.3 
B 
Source: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (2018) 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
The site’s topography and road access, as well as proximity to other nearby services make this 
area an appealing pedestrian and cyclist environment. The walkability website Walkscore.com 
gives the site a 99 out of 100 for walking, “Walker’s Paradise – Daily errands do not require a car.” 
The walk shed for the project area is seen in Figure 6.  
 
San Mateo Existing Conditions Report - Circulation   
1130 of 1252

--- page 1131 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 11 
Currently B Street and 5th Avenue both serve as bike routes to the project site. Both bike routes 
are Class III. The bike route on 5th Avenue connects to the bicycle network to the north and south 
of the project site. As per recent San Mateo City Council direction, bike facilities along B Street 
from 5th Avenue to Baldwin Avenue have been removed from the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan.  
Figure 6 20-minute Pedestrian-shed for 222 E. 4th Avenue 
 
Source: Walkscore.com 
Figure 7 Existing Bicycle Network 
 
Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
            
1131 of 1252

--- page 1132 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 12 
All the streets surrounding the project site are characterized as “High Stress” streets by the April 
2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan due to their traffic volumes or lack of cycling facilities. This 
makes the streets more suited for experienced cyclists. The project site is in a high bicycle 
connectivity area. 
Figure 8 Cycling Level of Stress 
 
Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
For nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at the 
nearby San Mateo Caltrain Station. BikeLink allows cyclists to securely store their bike in secure 
lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased online or at nearby vendors. There are 24 
lockers at the San Mateo Caltrain Station. Additionally, there are two free-to-use public bike repair 
stations are located less than 0.5-mile of the project site. These stations are located at the San 
Mateo Public Library and the San Mateo Caltrain Station.  
Planned Bicycle Projects  
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the San Mateo City Council on April 6, 2020 and 
serves as a blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in 
the coming years. The Plan includes two project relevant to the project site:  
• 
3rd Avenue has proposed improvements to build a separated bike lane. This is a high priority 
project.  
• 
Bicycle facilities to continue along 5th Avenue, including a Class II bicycle lane from Virginia 
Avenue to El Camino Real. This is the 16th highest priority project in the 2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan. 
Transit Services  
The project site is 0.3 miles from the Caltrain station and is served by two San Mateo County 
Transit District (SamTrans) routes.  
            
1132 of 1252

--- page 1133 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 13 
Caltrain 
Caltrain connects the project site to San Francisco to the north as well as to San Jose and Gilroy to 
the south. The station is 0.3-miles, 6 minutes walking, from the site and can be accessed by bike, 
walk, transit, and car. 
Table 5. Caltrain Service 
Category 
San Mateo Station  
Frequency  
Approx. 30 minutes 
Walking distance to station  
0.3 miles (6 minutes) 
Access 
Park and ride lot, San Mateo BikeLink 
Cost 
$3.20 - $10+ depending on distance  
SamTrans 
There are two bus routes with stops adjacent to the project site. The bus stop closest to the 
project site can be accessed via bike and walk. Additionally, there are other bus stops that are less 
than a 5 minute walking distance from the site for routes that have higher frequency. Each 
SamTrans bus is equipped with bike racks that hold up to three bikes. Trips cost $2.25 in cash or 
via a mobile app, or $2.05 if a Clipper card is being used.  
Table 6. SamTrans Service 
SamTrans 
Route # 
Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance 
to Stop 
Route Details 
59 
School day 
service 
1 AM bus,  
4 PM buses 
E. 4th Avenue & 
S. Ellsworth 
Avenue 
203 ft. 
Connects to Borel 
School  
295 
6 am – 7 pm 
Every 2 
hours 
E. 4th Avenue & 
S. Ellsworth 
Avenue 
203 ft.  
Connects to Caltrain 
station  
55 
School day 
service 
7AM bus,  
1 PM bus,   
3 PM bus 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects to Borel 
Middle School 
397 
Afternoon Service 
(1 pm – 3 pm) 
Every hour 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects San Francisco 
and Palo Alto Transit 
Ctr 
ECR 
24 hours service 
Every 15 
mins 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects Daly City 
BART and Palo Alto 
Transit Ctr 
250 
6 am – 11 pm 
Every 30 
mins 
S San Mateo Dr 
& E. 4th Ave 
690 ft. 
Connects to College of 
San Mateo 
Nearby Attractions  
Seven shopping center/grocery store within one mile walk that provide access to a multitude of 
retail outlets, eateries, grocery stores, dance theatre, etc.  
Four childcare centers within a mile walking distance.  
1133 of 1252

--- page 1134 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 14 
Four parks within one-mile radius.  
Two universities within a two-mile radius.  
Twenty schools within a two-miles radius. 
Available TDM Services  
Commute.org Incentives  
Commmute.org is the San Mateo County Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their 
resources are available to all residents and employees within San Mateo County. The residents 
and employees of the project site will have access to the TDM resources provide for commutes 
within the County and in the surrounding areas. They provide the following services:  
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free “Try Transit” program that allows 
individuals to request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards 
worth up to $100.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can 
be reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.   
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and marketing materials on biking are available to 
residents and commuters. These workshops are scheduled upon request and are available to 
employers and other development sites, including residential properties within San Mateo 
County.  
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo 
County with incentives worth between $25 to $200 for biking to work. To participate in the 
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides 
are then recorded in the STAR platform, Commute.org’s incentive delivery platform, where 
commuters can access their incentives.  
 
1134 of 1252

--- page 1135 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 15 
This chapter outlines the TDM strategies identified for the 222 E. 4th Avenue site. The strategies in 
this section are effective and appropriate based on the project’s size, location, and land use. The 
narrative below provides guidelines for implementation, cost estimates, expected timelines, and 
indicates the anticipated responsible party for each recommended measure. It is understood that 
the property management team will be the ‘responsible party’ for most TDM measures outlined 
below.  
Each strategy’s description also estimates the number of vehicle miles traveled and percentage of 
trips expected to be reduced through its implementation. It is important to note that many of the 
TDM strategies in this section are scalable and can easily be expanded by increasing the number of 
resources allocated. 
The trip generation numbers from the traffic impact assessment consider visitor trips to the 
supermarket in addition to employees and residents at site. However, the project TDM measures 
are geared primarily to residents and employees as these audiences are more likely to utilize TDM 
measures to reduce trip. Given this, the percentage of daily vehicle trips reduced by each strategy 
has been calculated considering both potential audiences.  
• 
Scenario 1: Considering a total of 2,904 daily trips which includes visitor trips to the 
supermarket, in addition to employee and resident trips.  
• 
Scenario 2: Considering a total of 1,083 daily trips attributed to the office and housing 
uses only, which includes an estimation of 70 daily trips for 35 retail employees.  ITE 
estimates about 2 employees per 1,000 sq.ft. for a supermarket (ITE 850). The project is 
expected to have 17,658 sq. ft. of retail space.  
 
Table 7 Proposed Project Net Trip Generation Calculations (Scenario 1 & 2) 
Land Use 
Size 
Weekday Daily Trips 
(Scenario 1) 
Weekday Daily Trips 
(Scenario 2) 
Proposed Project 
Retail (Supermarket) 
17.6 KSF 
1,891  
70 
Office Space 
104.7 KSF 
1,208 
1,208 
Affordable Housing 
10 DU 
38 
38 
Internal Capture 
  
-233 
-233 
Pass-by reduction (24% PM only) 
  
0 
0 
Total Proposed Project Trips 
  
2,904 
1,083 
3 Project TDM Measures 
1135 of 1252

--- page 1136 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 16 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) Membership 
The Sustainable Streets Plan recommends new developments within the Downtown Area Plan 
boundaries to be a part of a future Transportation Management Association (TMA). Membership 
with the TMA does not have a direct impact on the reduction of trips and VMT reduction. It is, 
however, a platform to show how developments will meet their TDM requirements and market 
TDM services and programs. The TMA would serve as a coordinating body to developments within 
the Rail Corridor and the Downtown Area Plan boundaries.  
Once a TMA is formed, the development in the future will be required to be a TMA member.   
Estimated timeframe  
Annual 
Estimated cost  
Will be based on membership rate 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0% 
TDM Coordinator 
An on-site TDM coordinator would act as a liaison between the developer, City, employees, and 
the residents. The TDM coordinator would help develop, implement, and report on the various 
TDM strategies. This person would be responsible for coordinating and marketing the selected 
TDM strategies as well as maintaining working relationships with the City and nearby 
developments.  
Implementation Guidelines: 
Assign the role of TDM Coordinator to an individual on the property management team to plan 
and implement the TDM program. Allocate at least 5 hours per month for the TDM Coordinator to 
spend on the following activities:  
• 
Annual Monitoring: Survey the residents and employees and compile a monitoring report 
for submission to the City of San Mateo annually. 
• 
Commute Assistance: Provide route planning and transit itineraries for employees and 
residents who wish to explore their transportation options. 
• 
TDM Program Coordination and Outreach: Organize and promote sustainable travel 
options through building communications such as emails, bulletin boards, and social 
media. Specific tasks include:  
- Organize and promote the trip reduction and air quality strategies detailed in the 
following sections.  
- Organize and promote campaigns and challenges that encourage trip reduction 
- Promote the sustainable transportation options available to the residents and 
employees. 
 
 
1136 of 1252

--- page 1137 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 17 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 per year 
Responsible party  
Property Management team 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
37 to 73  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
Spending 5 hours per month organizing TDM programs will lead to a 
0.10% to 0.21% decrease in vehicle trips (can be reduced further 
with an increased commitment in time and TDM strategies) 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
Spending 5 hours per month organizing TDM programs will lead to a 
0.28% to 0.55% decrease in vehicle trips (can be reduced further 
with an increased commitment in time and TDM strategies) 
Institutionalizing TDM 
It is important that the TDM program be implemented as the site becomes occupied and when 
office, retail, and apartment units eventually begin to turn over. It must also be updated as needs 
change and transportation options and technology evolve. Therefore, the TDM Plan should 
become ‘institutionalized’ as part of the property’s leasing process to ensure the program remains 
in place and new residents and employees are aware of its existence. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Describe the TDM infrastructure, amenities, and programs available to employers and residents 
and how they will be made available to the tenants in the lease documents.  
 
Estimated timeframe  
During the drafting of lease language and ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 – it is likely that this cost will already be undertaken by the 
property management in order to establish the details of the lease 
agreement, so including TDM in this effort will likely come at no 
additional cost. 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0% 
New Resident and Employee Packets 
Individuals are most likely to make a change in their transportation behavior alongside other life 
changes. This means that providing new residents and employees with a packet that offers them 
information about all their transportation options can increase the likelihood for them to choose 
options other than driving alone. 
New residents and employees would be provided with welcome packets that include a Clipper 
Card with stored value, customized transportation information about nearby transit routes, bus 
stops, bike maps, amenities, and routes, and other TDM initiatives undertaken by the property. 
The welcome packets should also include the contact information of the property’s TDM 
1137 of 1252

--- page 1138 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 18 
Coordinator. Figure 9 offers an example of a welcome packet distributed to new residents in Santa 
Monica, CA. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Design a New Resident and Employee Packet for the property that provides information on all 
transportation modes available as well as services that may make choosing sustainable travel 
easier. The TDM Coordinator can work directly with Commute.org, who can assist the property in 
purchasing Clipper Cards and provide supportive materials, commuter incentives and advice. The 
packet should include: 
• 
A Clipper Card with stored value ($10 to $20 would be ideal) 
• 
A map depicting a 10- and 20-minute walk and bicycle radius  
• 
Information about the transit options available (SamTrans, Caltrain, and BART) and how to 
connect to them, including Park and Ride options  
• 
Information about all the transportation related amenities offered by the property 
• 
Information about Commute.org services and resources 
• 
Information about Guaranteed Ride Home and how to register  
• 
Information about bike routes and amenities in the City of San Mateo Parking and 
Transportation Planning webpage (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2125/Parking-
Transportation) 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$3,000 to develop packet, then up to $3 per packet to print and 
distribute  
Approximately $4,000 total (cost of transit subsidies included in that 
strategy description) 
Figure 9 A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica 
1138 of 1252

--- page 1139 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 19 
Responsible party  
Owner or consultant to develop; Property Management team to 
maintain and distribute long term 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
441 to 490 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
1.38% to 1.55% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
3.69% to 4.16% 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage 
The developer would provide multimodal 
wayfinding signage at entry and exit points 
of the property. Wayfinding can help 
people visualize how close sustainable 
travel options are and in which direction, 
as well as familiarize them with nearby 
modes. Examples of wayfinding window 
decals used in the City of Santa Monica are 
shown in Figure 10. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Using consistent and legible design 
guidelines, create and post a network of 
pedestrian-scale signage at key entry and 
exit points of the property. The signs 
should point users to key destinations and give them estimates for how far away they are by 
walking and/or biking. For example -  
• 
6 min walk to Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station  
• 
1 min walk to E. 4th Avenue & S. Ellsworth Avenue  
• 
5 min walk to El Camino Real & E. 5th Ave 
Be sure to evaluate the signage regularly to take into consideration any infrastructural or service 
changes that may impact options. 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy 
Estimated cost  
Under $500 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 to 1 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0% 
Figure 10 Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica 
1139 of 1252

--- page 1140 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 20 
TDM Communications 
In order to encourage individuals to choose sustainable travel options, it is critical to provide them 
with the information needed to do so. Having a communications plan that outlines what 
information to share and how would set clear expectations for the TDM Coordinator.  
Communicating Transportation Information: 
• 
Website - Having all transportation-related information and resources available in one virtual 
location makes it easy and convenient for residents and employees to learn about their travel 
options. The webpage should provide information about relevant special offers and programs 
that are offered from outside agencies (such as the Peninsula Clean Energy e-bike subsidy 
while there is funding), nearby transit routes and schedules, bike and pedestrian paths, 
services offered by Commute.org and other amenities. This is especially helpful for residents 
new to the neighborhood or employees coming from outside of the City who are unaware of 
the transportation options available to them. 
• 
Bulletin Boards – Bulletin boards should be set up in high-traffic areas and include TDM 
messaging to inform and update residents, visitors, and employees of sustainable travel 
options, upcoming events, and activities. Commute.org sends out regularly scheduled 
newsletters that are a good reference for up-to-date transportation information. Each 
newsletter would advertise different TDM measures and events such as commuter 
promotions and incentives and highlight resources such as 511 and Commute.org.  
• 
Building Social Media Channels (Facebook, Instagram, etc.) – The property manager could 
promote transportation options and updates via the tenant portal website and social media 
channels such as Facebook, Instagram and Nextdoor. 
• 
Realtime Transportation Information- Transportation screens at the lobby and elevators that 
provide real-time transit departures and arrivals to visitors to 222 E 4th Avenue.  
Figure 11 Example Transportation Screen 
 
Transportation Options to Promote: 
• 
All TDM incentives and services offered by the property to residents, visitors, and employees, 
such as bike parking. 
• 
Resources for trip planning, including Transit app, Google Maps or Citymapper offer excellent 
smartphone-based trip planning options. 
• 
A link to Commute.org with information about the resources available to residents and 
employees, especially information regarding the mode-specific resources and subsidies 
offered. 
• 
Information about the Guaranteed Ride Home (GRH) or Emergency Ride Home (ERH) 
programs offered by the surrounding counties (e.g., Commute.org's GRH program for 
1140 of 1252

--- page 1141 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 21 
commuters who work in San Mateo County, Alameda County's GRH program, Marin County’s 
ERH program, etc.). If an unforeseen emergency occurs, employees that use a sustainable 
transportation mode are eligible for reimbursement of the cost of their trip home.   
• 
Information about Safe Routes to School programs 
• 
Locally accessible transit information  
– 
Caltrain, including Information about bikes on board, secure bike parking, and Park and 
Ride lots and at the Hayward Park, Hillsdale, and Belmont stations  
• 
Information about biking, including links to local bike maps and cycling resources 
Implementation Guidelines 
Create a webpage that lives on or is linked from the property’s tenant facing website and includes 
all the above listed information, at a minimum, in addition create a social media presence. 
Commute.org offers a comprehensive transportation resources website free of charge that 
provides much of the above information. 
Develop a regular schedule for newsletters and social media posts and promote relevant 
transportation information regularly through employee and resident bulletin boards. The social 
media posts can be utilized for a wider audience that includes not just residents and employees 
but also retail visitors. 
 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, property management (TDM Coordinator) to maintain 
webpage and newsletter/social media calendar as well as managing all 
transportation-related information to residents. 
Estimated cost  
$2,000 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
26 to 53 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0.07% to 0.17% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0.18% to 0.46% 
GOPass and Way2GO Pass Provision   
Providing subsidized transit passes can help reduce single occupancy trips and increase transit 
ridership. It also provides increased flexibility for those who might still opt to drive occasionally.  
Implementation Guidelines 
Partner with Caltrain and SamTrans to provide free or discounted transit options to residents and 
employees through the following strategies. 
Employees (both office and supermarket employees) 
• 
Partner with Caltrain to provide free annual pass Caltrain GO Pass to all employees 
• 
Partner with SamTrans to provide a free annual pass Way2Go Pass to all employees 
 
1141 of 1252

--- page 1142 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 22 
Residents 
• 
Provide $200 in annual subsidies for the purchase of Caltrain passes to residents  
• 
Provide $20 in annual subsidies for the purchase of SamTrans passes to residents  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy (during the drafting of lease agreements), and 
ongoing.  
Estimated cost  
Employees: Approximately $342 per employee for GO Pass, and $75 
per employee for Way2GO pass. Based on an estimate of 381 
employees, the employee cost estimate is $158,877 annually. 
Residents: Approximately $200 per resident for Caltrain pass, and 
$20 per resident for SamTrans pass. Based on an estimate of 11 
commuting residents, the resident cost estimate is $2,420 in 
subsidies annually.  
Total cost estimate: $161,297 annually. 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
1245 to 1383 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
5.10% to 5.68% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
13.67% to 15.24% 
Preferential Carpool and Vanpool Parking 
Reserving space for carpools and vanpools encourages shared travel be ensuring those riders are 
able to find guaranteed parking easily. If signed in a manner that stands out, it may also generate 
interest in carpooling and vanpooling from solo drivers. 
Implementation Guidelines 
Designate at least ten on-site spaces for employees who carpool and vanpool to their worksites. 
The spaces should be located close to an entrance, and demarcated spaces with signage and/or 
paint, in line with other signage within the parking facility. While it is not required that property 
management undertake strong enforcement efforts such as monitoring the spaces on a daily basis 
and ticketing or towing non-compliant vehicles, they should be prepared to remind single drivers 
that the spaces are reserved for higher occupancy vehicles. 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$1,000 for sign fabrication 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
740 to 822 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0.96 to 1.10% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
2.59% to 2.95% 
1142 of 1252

--- page 1143 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 23 
In addition to the TDM measures identified in the previous Chapter, the following strategies would 
help to support further vehicle trip and VMT reduction for travel to and from the project site. They 
are offered as optional recommendations as they are measures that are not required to meet the 
VMT reduction requirement. 
Bike Education / Workshops 
Encouraging bike ridership is one of the most effective ways of reducing short range trips by car. 
About 59.4% of vehicle trips in the United States were less than six miles in 2017.2 The property 
could partner with local bike advocacy groups, bike shops or Commute.org to host bike safety 
workshops to educate residents and employees on the basics of biking and share educational 
resources such as maps of nearby bike amenities (such as BikeLink lockers at Caltrain stations). 
Given the size of the project site, if demand for full workshops doesn’t exist, it may be more 
appropriate to support residents and employees in one-on-one support from bike shops.  
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with Commute.org or a local bike advocacy organization to organize a bicycle safety 
training webinar or workshop annually. Commute.org offers free bike training workshops to 
employers and residential properties within San Mateo County. 
• 
Promote the workshop or webinar along with additional resources on the property’s 
dedicated website, resident and employee bulletin board, and social media. Some 
additional resources to share with residents and employees include:  
- Bike Safety and Rules of the Road 
- Family Biking - How to Bike Safely with Adults and Kids of Any Age  
- Biking Maps and Trails  
 
Estimated timeframe  
75% occupancy, annually 
Estimated cost  
$500 
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate 
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
32 to 71 
 
2 As per data collected from Office of Energy Efficiency and renewable Energy 2017. 
https://www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/articles/fotw-1042-august-13-2018-2017-nearly-60-all-vehicle-trips-were-
less-six miles#:~:text=Data%20collected%20on%20one%2Dway,distance%20categories%20about%205%25%20each. 
 
4 Optional TDM Measures 
1143 of 1252

--- page 1144 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 24 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0.14% to 0.34% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0.37% to 0.92%  
Promotional Programs 
Contests, promotions, and prizes can be used as a strategy to provide awareness about 
transportation options available to employees, residents, and visitors. This can be in the form of 
short-term or long-term commute challenges and events that encourage the use of a new modes 
of commuting.  
Implementation Guidelines 
Promote monthly or quarterly commute challenges that encourage individuals to try new modes 
of transportation, promotion can be done via the TDM communication’s webpage, information 
boards and TDM coordinator. As incentives, include prizes in the form of gift cards, rewards points 
and transit subsidies.  
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$2,000-10,000 per year depending on the number of participants 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
6 to 12 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
0.03% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
0.09% 
Carshare  
The developer could partner with an existing carshare company such as Zipcar, Envoy, or Car2Go 
to provide those who do not own a vehicle the ability to use a car when needed. Providing 
occasional access to a vehicle, coupled with incentives to reduce parking needs, can encourage 
households and employees to forgo vehicle ownership (studies show increased car access 
decreases use of other modes such as transit)3.  
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with a shared vehicle provider to provide residents and employees access to a car when 
needed. The carshare benefit can be made available to other external users. However, each 
participating household and employee at 222 E. 4th Avenue can be provided with annual credits or 
subscription discounts.  
  
 
3 Jordan, S. (May 2019). Ridership Study Revisited UCLA ITS Scholars 2018 Report on Falling Transit Ridership Gets a 
Second Look. Retrieved from https://caltransit.org/news-publications/publications/transit-california/transit-
california-archives/2019-editions/may/ridership-study-revisited/  
1144 of 1252

--- page 1145 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 25 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$4,000 to $8,000 per year depending on number of 
participants 
Responsible party  
Property Management 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
241 to 278 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 1) 
1.00% to 1.14% 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced (Scenario 2) 
2.68% to 3.05% 
 
 
1145 of 1252

--- page 1146 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 26 
If implemented correctly and consistently, the TDM program outlined within chapters Project 
TDM Measures and Optional TDM Measures is forecasted to result in a daily VMT reduction of 
between 2,768 (low estimate) to 3.183 (high estimate) and a reduction of 1071 to 1234 kilograms 
of carbon dioxide every day.  
VMT Reduction Calculations 
Estimated VMT and vehicle trip reduction calculations were made using the TDM Return on 
Investment (ROI) Calculator, a tool owned by Mobility Lab and developed by university and 
governmental partners. The TDM ROI Calculator helps practitioners and policy makers understand 
the benefits of their investment in TDM strategies and programs by calculating estimated vehicle 
trips, VMT, hours of congestion delay, and emissions reduced. More information about the TDM 
ROI Calculator and assumptions made to calculate estimated impacts are included in Exhibit A. 
Program Impacts  
TDM Program for 222 E 4th Avenue  
Table 8 outlines the total estimated VMT and congestion hours reduced with the recommended 
and optional TDM program for the project site. 
Table 8 Cumulative Program TDM Strategies 
222 E 4th 
Avenue 
Annual VMT Reduced 
Annual Vehicle Trips 
Reduced  
Annual Congestion 
Reduced (hours of 
delay 
Carbon dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Recommended 
Strategies  
614,783 
697,034 
54,587 
62,491 
85,462 
97,318 
238,108 
270,218 
Optional 
Strategies  
70,889 
93,366 
8,398 
10,868 
7,410 
8,645 
26,429 
34,580 
Recommended 
and Optional 
TDM Program 
685,672 
790,400 
62,985 
73,359 
92,872 
105,963 
265,27
8 
306,527 
 
Based on Scenario 1, which considers visitor trips to the supermarket, in addition to employee and 
resident trips, the project is estimated to reduce between 8.78 to 10.23% annual vehicle trips. 
When considering Scenario 2, which considers just employee and resident trips that are more 
5 Impacts of Project TDM Measures
1146 of 1252

--- page 1147 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 27 
receptive to trip reduction measures, the project is expected to reduce between 23.53% to 
27.42%.  
Table 9 Percentage of Annual Vehicle Trips Reduced 
222 E 4th Avenue 
% of Annual Vehicle Trips 
Reduced (Scenario 1) 
% of Annual Vehicle Trips 
Reduced (Scenario 2) 
  
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Recommended and Optional TDM Program 
8.78% 
10.23% 
23.55% 
27.42% 
 
Table 10 and Table 11 outlines the individual program components and estimated daily VMT 
reduction ranges for each TDM strategy. This is presented in order to provide an understanding of 
which strategies are the most impactful.  
Table 10 Individual Strategies (Scenario 1) 
Strategy 
Daily VMT 
Reduced 
Daily Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
% Daily Trip 
Reduced  
Daily 
Congestion 
Reduced 
(hours of 
delay) 
Daily Carbon 
Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
 
Low 
Est/ 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
TMA Membership  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
TDM Coordinator 
37 
73 
3 
6 
0.10% 
0.21% 
6 
12 
14 
28 
Institutionalizing TDM 
at the Property 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
New Resident + New 
Employee Packet  
441 
490 
40 
45 
1.38% 
1.55% 
57 
64 
171 
190 
Multimodal 
Wayfinding Signage 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
TDM Communications 
26 
53 
2 
5 
0.07% 
0.17% 
3 
6 
10 
21 
GoPass and Way2Go 
Pass Provision 
1245 
1383 
148 
165 
5.10% 
5.68% 
162 
180 
482 
536 
Preferential Carpool 
and Vanpool Parking  
740 
822 
28 
32 
0.96% 
1.10% 
118 
132 
287 
319 
1147 of 1252

--- page 1148 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 28 
Bike Education and 
Promotion 
40 
88 
4 
10 
0.14% 
0.34% 
0 
0 
15 
34 
Promotional Program  
6 
12 
1 
1 
0.03% 
0.03% 
0 
1 
2 
5 
Carshare (with annual 
credits or discounts) 
241 
278 
29 
33 
1.00% 
1.14% 
30 
34 
93 
108 
 
Table 11 Individual Strategies (Scenario 2) 
Strategy 
Daily VMT 
Reduced 
Daily Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
% Daily Trip 
Reduced  
Daily 
Congestion 
Reduced 
(hours of 
delay) 
Daily Carbon 
Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
 
Low 
Est/ 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
TMA Membership  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
TDM Coordinator 
37 
73 
3 
6 
0.28% 
0.55% 
6 
12 
14 
28 
Institutionalizing TDM 
at the Property 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
New Resident + New 
Employee Packet  
441 
490 
40 
45 
3.69% 
4.16% 
57 
64 
171 
190 
Multimodal 
Wayfinding Signage 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
TDM Communications 
26 
53 
2 
5 
0.18% 
0.46% 
3 
6 
10 
21 
GoPass and Way2Go 
Pass Provision 
1245 
1383 
148 
165 
13.67% 
15.24% 
162 
180 
482 
536 
Preferential Carpool 
and Vanpool Parking  
740 
822 
28 
32 
2.59% 
2.95% 
118 
132 
287 
319 
Bike Education and 
Promotion 
40 
88 
4 
10 
0.37% 
0.92% 
0 
0 
15 
34 
Promotional Program  
6 
12 
1 
1 
0.09% 
0.09% 
0 
1 
2 
5 
Carshare (with annual 
credits or discounts) 
241 
278 
29 
33 
2.68% 
3.05% 
30 
34 
93 
108 
1148 of 1252

--- page 1149 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 29 
Annual monitoring and reporting are required from the site by the City of San Mateo.  Ongoing 
monitoring will help the project site track the impact of their TDM programs as well as provide a 
regular schedule for evaluating programming and identifying gaps and opportunities. The results 
will help the building adjust programs to better meet the needs of their residents and employees.  
Annual Survey 
The City of San Mateo requires an annual letter to the Public Works Director or designee that 
outlines the TDM measures implemented and information from a mode split survey.  
To comply with City requirements, the TDM Coordinator will conduct an annual resident and 
employee survey to understand commute patterns and the modes by which they commute. 
During the first year of occupancy, an initial survey should be conducted to establish a baseline to 
which future surveys will be compared. 
The baseline survey and the subsequent annual surveys should ask questions to understand how 
residents and employees travel for different types of trips and understand barriers to sustainable 
travel. To gain insight into the resident’s and employee’s travel characteristics and attitudes, the 
survey should identify the following key topics: 
• 
Mode of travel by trip purpose (work, school, leisure, etc.) 
• 
Work location 
• 
Business travel requirements, if applicable 
• 
Daycare or school pick-up/drop-off location, if applicable  
• 
Flexible working arrangements, if applicable 
• 
Improvements to the main mode of travel 
• 
Current barriers to walking/biking 
• 
Ideas for how the property could encourage walking, biking, carpooling and transit 
• 
Car ownership 
• 
Level of awareness of the property’s TDM amenities  
• 
Feedback on amenities and services currently available to the residents and employees 
• 
Other services or amenities that are not currently offered that would encourage residents and 
employees to try a different mode of travel 
The survey results allow the property to not only track program progress but also identify ways to 
adjust the program and further shift travel behavior towards more sustainable modes (transit, 
bike, walk and carpool) over time. The TDM Coordinator could use the data to understand which 
amenities are popular and should remain, which are not effective and should be adjusted, and 
identify additional measures to implement at their site.  
6 Monitoring 
1149 of 1252

--- page 1150 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 30 
A. TDM ROI Calculator 
B. 222 E 4th Ave. Site Assessment 
 
 
7 Exhibits 
1150 of 1252

--- page 1151 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 31 
A. TDM ROI Calculator 
The Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Return on Investment-(ROI) Calculator is a tool 
owned by Mobility Lab, an Arlington County, Virginia funded transportation behavior and policy 
research center. It was developed in partnership with university and governmental partners, with 
funding from the Federal Highway Administration, to provide TDM program staff, transportation 
planners, and others involved in implementing TDM services a quantifiable way to estimate the 
ROI for TDM services.  
According to the TDM ROI Calculator User Manual, the model calculates impacts for individual 
TDM services then combines the individual impacts, with discounts to account for overlap 
between services, to determine the cumulative impact of all services.4 
The calculator performs the following functions:  
• 
Estimates TDM travel impacts, defined as reductions in commute vehicle trips and vehicle 
miles travelled (VMT), from a user-defined package of TDM services  
• 
Converts vehicle trip and VMT reductions into societal benefits, such as reduction in hours of 
travel time delay and gallons of gasoline saved  
• 
Calculates the societal cost savings from each benefit and the overall cost saving from all 
benefits combined  
• 
Compares the societal cost saving to the TDM program "investment" cost to estimate ROI  
As most TDM programs do not have detailed VMT and trip reduction data, the ROI Calculator 
instead asks for user participation numbers and program costs as the inputs for its calculations. 
The model then uses four calculation factors derived from TDM service user surveys along with 
pre-set regional inputs and national environmental data to estimate the number of participants 
who will shift behavior and the number of daily vehicle trips, VMT and hours of congestion that 
their behavior shift will reduce. If more detailed regional and national data are known, they can be 
input to override the preset data used for calculation.   
The inputs used for calculating the VMT and vehicle trip reductions for the 222 E 4th Avenue TDM 
Plan are outlined below so that the results can be duplicated with ease.  
 
 
 
4 Mobility Lab.(2019).TDM ROI Calculator User Manual Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/calculators/ 
1151 of 1252

--- page 1152 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 32 
A1 Regional Inputs  
At the outset in Section A (Your Region, Service Area Type and Transit Availability), the TDM ROI Calculator 
asks users to make a series of selections to determine geographic and transit characteristics of the area 
being examined. The options selected for the 222 E 4th Avenue Plan are displayed in Table A.1 as follows:  
Table Error! No text of specified style in document..1: Selections made for region, service area type and transit 
availability   
Questions in the ROI Calculator 
Option Selected for the TDM Plan 
Metropolitan Region 
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA 
Primary land use density and development pattern 
Moderate density, urban or small city/town 
Primary focus of TDM program outreach  
Primarily to commuters at worksite/through 
employers 
Percentage of commuters within 1/2 mi of 
bus/train stop in the service area  
76% to 100% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a 
bus or train stop 
Average public transit frequency in the service area 
in the morning peak period (Select ONLY ONE 
option) 
Moderate-Average rush hour frequency for most 
routes is 16-30 minutes  
With the above inputs selected, the model determines the classifications for the project site as follows in 
Table A.2: 
Table Error! No text of specified style in document..2: Project site TDM service area and transit availability 
classifications  
Your TDM Service Area classification is: 
Suburban/Small city 
Your Transit Availability classification is: 
High Transit 
 
 
 
1152 of 1252

--- page 1153 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 33 
A2 Regional Travel, Environmental and Cost Benefit Factors  
The final section of the ROI Calculator (Section F - Additional Regional/Service Area Data 
Environmental Inputs) shows the default numbers used for regional travel, environmental and 
cost benefit factors. Users have the option to override these defaults by inputting values into the 
“User Defined” cells if specific local factors are known. Table A.3 shows the defaults assumed by 
the model and indicates if the defaults were overridden, and which values were used. The inputs 
defined in Table A.3 remained the same for all calculations for the 222 E 4th Avenue plan. 
Table Error! No text of specified style in document..3: Travel, vehicle pollutant emission, and benefit cost factor 
default and user defined values   
Regional Travel Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Average home-to-work commute miles for the region (one-way distance)  
9.6 
13.91 
Percentage of regional commuters who drive alone to work OR percentage 
of weekly commute trips made by driving alone  
63.2% 
72%2 
Percentage of regional commuters who ride public transit to work OR 
percentage of weekly commute trips made by transit  
17.6% 
15%2 
Regional Vehicle Pollutant Emission Factors 
National 
Default 
User 
Defined 
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.445 
0.1713 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.075 
0.0354 
Greenhouse gas (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) emission rate in grams per mile 
of travel  
387.460 
342.0004 
Regional Benefit Cost Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Median average wage rate for commuters in the service area or 
metropolitan region  
$24.90 
$49.711 
Estimated average annualized cost to build/maintain one lane-mile of major 
roadway (combination of Interstate and limited access roadway) 
$165,000 
N/A 
Average pump price per gallon for regular unleaded gasoline 
$3.36 
$5.943 
1 Source: San Mateo Economic Development Association’s Labor Supply and Commute Patterns in San Mateo County 
Report, 2012.  
2 Source: ACS 2019 5-year for the Census Tract 6063, Census.gov 
3 Source: AAA Gas Prices  
4 Source: California Air Resources Board Emissions Factors (EMFAC) database 
 
 
1153 of 1252

--- page 1154 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 34 
Assumptions 
Resident Characteristics Assumptions 
To estimate potential participation numbers, some assumptions about the number of individuals 
living at the property at 100% occupancy were made. These assumptions begin with the 
knowledge that there will be 111 units for rent. The assumptions and the basis for each are 
outlined in Table A.4.  
Table Error! No text of specified style in document..4: 222 E 4th Avenue resident and employee characteristics 
assumptions  
Category 
Assumption and Basis 
Number 
Total number of people 
residing at the property at full 
occupancy 
ACS data indicates that there are 2.2 persons per 
household in the census tract 6063 and there will be 2 
studios and 8 one-bedrooms on site.  
22 
Children under 18 
ACS data shows that 17% of the census tract’s 
population is children 
4 
Adults 
Subtracting children from the total population  
18 
Number of residential 
commuters 
ACS data shows that 39.4% of people residing in the 
census tract are not in the labor force 
11 
Number of employee 
commuters  
ITE estimates a space of 303 sq.ft. and 500 sq.ft. for 
each employee in an office and a supermarket 
respectively. There will be 104,772 sq.ft. of office space 
and 17,658 sq.ft. of retail space. 
381 
 
1154 of 1252

--- page 1155 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 35 
ROI Calculator Participation and Calculation Factors Assumptions 
In order to use the ROI calculator to calculate estimated impacts for the 222 E 4th Avenue project, assumptions were made to estimate 
participation rate for each strategy. Additionally, if a strategy was not outlined as a direct input in the model, assumptions were made to 
estimate the calculation factors associated with it. Table A.5 outlines those assumptions. 
 Table Error! No text of specified style in document..5 Summary of Assumptions for each strategy 
Strategy 
ROI Calc Input  
Participation 
Assumption 
(per year) 
Basis for Participation Assumption 
Placement 
rate (%) 
Assumption 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Factor 
Assumption 
One-Way 
Commute 
Distance 
Assumption 
Drive-Alone 
Access % 
Assumption  
TDM Coordinator 
Comprehensive 
commute 
assistance 
20 
Assist 5% of residents and employees 
with questions about transportation 
including one-on-one assistance when 
asked and promoting sustainable 
transportation options  (5 
hours/month). 
40% 
Pre-set in 
mode 
0.9 
Pre-set in 
model 
11.5 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Institutionalizing 
TDM at the 
Property 
General marketing 
392 
All residents and employees at the 
property would be subjected to the 
lease conditions.  
0% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.4 
Pre-set in 
model 
11.5 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Pre-set in 
model 
New Resident + 
New Employee 
Packet  
Alternative mode 
“try it” incentive 
78 
Each household and new employee 
on the property would receive a 
packet. At a minimum, the transit 
users (15%) would take advantage of 
the cards and an additional 5% will 
“try it” based on the transit mode 
split and ease of accessing the 
incentive. 
60% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1.2 
Pre-set in 
model 
8.6 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Multimodal 
Wayfinding 
Signage 
General marketing 
392 
The decals would be visible to all 
residents, employees and visitors. 
0% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.4 
Pre-set in 
model 
11.5 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Pre-set in 
model 
TDM 
Communications 
Commute program 
website  
137 
10% of adults would access webpage 
for transportation info and incentives 
40% 
0.3 
11.5 miles 
10% 
1155 of 1252

--- page 1156 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 36 
and approximately 25% would see the 
newsletter and social media 
communications, especially if they are 
included with communications 
regarding other property updates.  
Pre-set in 
model 
Pre-set in 
model 
Pre-set in 
model 
Pre-set in 
model 
GoPass and 
Way2Go Pass 
Provision 
Ongoing transit 
incentive  
392 
The transit pass will be distributed to 
all employees and residents.  
35% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1.2 
Pre-set in 
model 
8.6 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Preferential 
Carpool and 
Vanpool Parking 
Vanpool formation 
35 
4% of the population carpool/vanpool 
and with an additional incentive more 
people could be motivated to carpool. 
An additional 5% will try it based on 
convenience of finding carpool and 
vanpool partners. 
95% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1.0 
Pre-set in 
model 
28.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
80% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Bike Education 
and Promotion 
Custom 
40 
Approximately 21 residents and 
employees who have access to long 
term bike parking will attend and an 
additional 5% will participate based 
on interest. 
25% 
Pre-set in 
model (for 
commute 
challenges/ 
events) 
1.2 
Used the same 
pre-set for a 
bike commute 
program 
10 miles 
Average 
doable biking 
distance 
according to 
Mobility  
Lab 5 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Promotional 
Program  
Commute 
Challenges/Events 
78 
Transit users at a minimum will take 
advantage of promotional programs, 
and an additional 5% of residents and 
employee will “try it” based on 
incentives.  
25% 
Preset in 
model 
0.3 
Preset in 
model 
11.5 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
10% 
Preset in 
model  
Carshare 
Carshare 
72 
It would be used by residents and 
employees who do not have access to 
parking.  
15% 
Preset in 
model 
0.3 
Preset in 
model 
8.6 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
0% 
Preset in 
model  
 
5 McLeish, Mike. (February 27,2017). How far is too far to bike to work? Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/2017/02/27/how-far-bike-work/ 
1156 of 1252

--- page 1157 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 37 
 
B. 222 E 4th Avenue Site Assessment  
222 E. 4th Avenue Project Background Assessment Memorandum  
Introduction  
 
The City of San Mateo has commissioned Steer to develop a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan 
for the 222 E. 4th Avenue project site to reduce the ceiling of potential congestion and trips generated by the 
project. The project is a proposed redevelopment of Draeger’s Market at 222 E. 4th Avenue into a single 
building that would consist of approximately 104,722 sq. ft of office space, 17,658 sq. ft of retail space for a 
grocer, and 8,971 sq. ft of residential space developed by Lane Partners (referred to as “the developer”). 
The TDM Plan development begins with a thorough assessment of the site, including existing and planned 
conditions. A combination of desktop-based research and analysis, review of available site plans and 
renderings, and study of planned developments was utilized in our understanding of the site conditions.  
The document details the following aspects of the site and project: 
• 
Project Description 
• 
Physical Attributes 
– 
Site Geography and Road Network 
– 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
– 
Transit Services 
• 
Nearby Attractions 
• 
Available TDM Services 
• 
Travel Trends 
• 
TOD Requirements (if applicable) 
• 
Next Steps 
1157 of 1252

--- page 1158 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 38 
 
 
Project Description  
The project site is a city block bounded by E. 4th Avenue to the northwest, S. B Street to the 
northeast, E. 5th Avenue to the southeast, and S. Ellsworth Avenue to the southwest. The project 
site is currently a grocery store spanning a whole city block. The project proposes demolishing the 
existing building at 222 E. 4th Avenue to construct a new 5-story mixed used building. The project 
includes:  
1. 8 one-bedroom and 2 studio units (total of 10 units)  
2. 104,722 sq. ft of office space  
3. 17,658 sq. ft of retail space 
4. 239 physical parking spaces as well as 50-60 valet parking spaces, in a 2-level 
subterranean garage and 12,392 sq. ft of covered parking area. 
5. 2,070 sq. ft community open space 
6. 1,450 sq. ft outdoor dining space 
 
The project site is zoned as CBD/R – Central Business Residential. As shown in Figure 1, the lots to 
the north and south are also zoned as CBD/R. The lots towards the northwest are zoned as CBD – 
Central Business. The lot to the southwest is zoned as R5 – Multiple Family Dwellings (High 
Density). There is a large area zoned as Open Space to the southwest of the project site.  
Figure 1 Zoning Map 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Planning 
            
1158 of 1252

--- page 1159 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 39 
 
The project site zoning allows for a FAR of 3.0, due to a state density bonus the project will have a 
FAR of 3.1. The project site has an allowable height of 55’-0”; the developer has proposed a height 
of 72’-0”. 
Table 1 Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current 
Proposed  
Description  
Single story building – grocery 
store 
5 story multi-use building with 
residential, office, and retail 
space 
Square Footage 
49,478 sq. ft building 
155,052 sq. ft mixed-use building  
Zoning Designation 
CBD/R 
CBD/R 
Physical Attributes 
Site Geography and Road Network 
The project site is located on a city block which currently consists of Draeger’s Market, a grocery 
store. The current structure will be demolished. The block is situated between E. 5th Ave. to the 
south, E. 4th Ave. to the north, S. Ellsworth Avenue to the West, and S. B Street to the east.  
The site is adjacent to E. 4th Avenue, a county-maintained street that feeds directly into two 
highways: U.S. Highway 101 to the east and the California State Route 82  (El Camino Real) to the 
west.   
• 
U.S. Highway 101 is a major federal highway that runs north-south along the entire west 
coast. It connects several major cities including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and San Jose 
• 
Route 82 connects to Interstate-880 (I-880) in San Jose and Interstate-280 (I-280) in San 
Francisco 
Both the U.S. Highway 101 and Route 82 provide easy access to California State Route 92, which 
runs east west and runs over the San Mateo Bridge. This bridge bypasses the San Francisco Bay to 
connect San Mateo to the East Bay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1159 of 1252

--- page 1160 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 40 
 
Figure 2 Street Network 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Public Works 
 
Figure 3 Car-sheds from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Free Flow: 
20-minute car-shed from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Rush hour: 
20-minute car-shed from 222 E. 4th Avenue 
Source: Walkscore.com 
            
1160 of 1252

--- page 1161 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 41 
 
The intersection at B Street and 4th Avenue was included in the San Mateo Existing Conditions 
Circulation Report6. As recorded in October 2018, the intersection maintains a “B” level of service 
(LOS) in the AM and PM Peak hours.  
Table 2. Levels of Service for 222 E. 4th Avenue 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service 
 
Year 2018 Conditions 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Delay  
LOS 
Delay 
LOS  
B Street and 4th Avenue  
11.0 
B 
11.3 
B 
Source: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (2018) 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
The site’s topography and road access, as well as proximity to other nearby services make this 
area an appealing pedestrian and cyclist environment. The walkability website Walkscore.com 
gives the site a 99 out of 100 for walking, “Walker’s Paradise – Daily errands do not require a car.” 
The walk shed for the project area is seen in Figure 4.  
Currently B Street and 5th Avenue both serve as bike routes to the project site. Both bike routes 
are Class III. The bike route on 5th Avenue connects to the bicycle network to the north and south 
of the project site. As per recent San Mateo City Council direction, bike facilities along B Street 
from 5th Avenue to Baldwin Avenue have been removed from the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan.  
Figure 4 20-minute Pedestrian-shed for 222 E. 4th Avenue 
 
Source: Walkscore.com 
 
San Mateo Existing Conditions Report - Circulation   
1161 of 1252

--- page 1162 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 42 
 
Figure 5 Existing Bicycle Network 
 
Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
All the streets surrounding the project site are characterized as “High Stress” streets by the April 
2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan due to their traffic volumes or lack of cycling facilities. This 
makes the streets more suited for experienced cyclists. The project site is in a high bicycle 
connectivity area. 
Figure 6 Cycling Level of Stress 
 
Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
            
            
1162 of 1252

--- page 1163 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 43 
 
For nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at the 
nearby San Mateo Caltrain Station. BikeLink allows cyclists to securely store their bike in secure 
lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased online or at nearby vendors. There are 24 
lockers at the San Mateo Caltrain Station. Additionally, there are two free-to-use public bike repair 
stations are located less than 0.5-mile of the project site. These stations are located at the San 
Mateo Public Library and the San Mateo Caltrain Station.  
Planned Bicycle Projects  
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the San Mateo City Council on April 6, 2020 and 
serves as a blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in 
the coming years. The Plan includes one project relevant to the project site:  
• 
3rd Avenue has proposed improvements to build a separated bike lane. This is a high priority 
project.  
• 
5th Avenue has a planned Class II bicycle lanes from Virginia Avenue to El Camino Real. This is 
the 16th highest priority project in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Transit Services  
The project site is 0.3 miles from the Caltrain station and is served by two San Mateo County 
Transit District (SamTrans) routes.  
Caltrain 
Caltrain connects the project site to San Francisco to the north as well as to San Jose and Gilroy to 
the south. The station is 0.3-miles, 6 minutes walking, from the site and can be accessed by bike, 
walk, transit, and car. 
Table 3. Caltrain Service 
Category 
San Mateo Station  
Frequency  
30 minutes 
Walking distance to station  
0.3 miles (6 minutes) 
Access 
Park and ride lot, San Mateo BikeLink 
Cost 
$3.20 - $10+ depending on distance  
SamTrans 
There are two bus routes with stops adjacent to the project site. The bus stop closest to the 
project site can be accessed via bike and walk. Additionally, there are other bus stops that are less 
than a 5 minute walking distance from the site for routes that have higher frequency. Each 
SamTrans bus is equipped with bike racks that hold up to three bikes. Trips cost $2.25 in cash or 
via a mobile app, or $2.05 if a Clipper card is being used.  
 
 
 
1163 of 1252

--- page 1164 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 44 
 
Table 4. SamTrans Service 
SamTrans 
Route # 
Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance 
to Stop 
Route Details 
59 
School day 
service 
1 AM bus,  
4 PM buses 
E. 4th Avenue & 
S. Ellsworth 
Avenue 
203 ft. 
Connects to Borel 
School  
295 
6 am – 7 pm 
Every 2 
hours 
E. 4th Avenue & 
S. Ellsworth 
Avenue 
203 ft.  
Connects to Caltrain 
station  
55 
School day 
service 
7AM bus,  
1 PM bus,   
3 PM bus 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects to Borel 
Middle School 
397 
Afternoon Service 
(1 pm – 3 pm) 
Every hour 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects San Francisco 
and Palo Alto Transit 
Ctr 
ECR 
24 hours service 
Every 15 
mins 
El Camino Real 
& E. 5th Ave 
1300 ft. 
Connects Daly City 
BART and Palo Alto 
Transit Ctr 
250 
6 am – 11 pm 
Every 30 
mins 
S San Mateo Dr 
& E. 4th Ave 
690 ft. 
Connects to College of 
San Mateo 
Nearby Attractions  
Shopping  
The project site is in downtown San Mateo and is close to a variety of retail and shopping options. 
The project site will include a grocery store and other retail space as well.  
• 
The lot northwest of the project site contains several small retail stores in a strip mall 
• 
The lot southeast of the project site has a bank, a dance theatre, and a restaurant  
• 
A large parking structure with many retailers on the first level of the garage is located east of 
the site. 
• 
There are several grocery stores located around half a mile walking radius of the project site: 
– 
Dean’s Produce 
– 
Suruki  
– 
Golden 9th Deli and Market  
• 
The site is in close proximity to Downtown San Mateo (one block south) which provides a 
variety of retail options. 
Table 5. Shopping Center and Grocery Store Locations and Distances 
Shopping Center 
Distance 
Walk 
Transit 
Drive 
Central Parking Garage (Suruki 
Supermarket)  
500 ft.  
2 min 
- 
2 min 
Central Park Plaza (Dean’s Produce)  
0.2 miles 
3 mins 
- 
4 min 
Takahashi Market 
0.2 miles  5 min 
- 
2 min 
1164 of 1252

--- page 1165 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 45 
 
Byrd’s Filling Station   
0.2 miles 
4 min 
- 
2 min 
Golden 9th Deli & Market 
0.4 miles 
8 min 
- 
2 min 
Mi Rancho Supermarket 
0.4 miles 
8 min 
- 
4 min 
Everybody’s Market 
0.4 miles 
9 min 
SamTrans Route #250 | 6 
min 
3 min 
Trader Joe’s  
1.6 miles 
30 min 
SamTrans Route #292 | 17 
min 
6 min 
Schools and Childcare 
About seventeen percent (17%) of the population located in the census tract (residential area) are 
under the age of 18, with the median age and average household size being 39.2 and 2.2, 
respectively, according to the American Communities Survey (ACS) 2019. This suggests that this 
region is populated with young families that may add school or childcare trips into their daily 
schedule. Since school drop-offs and pickups can lead to significant traffic and congestion twice 
daily, the TDM Plan will explore synergies with existing Safe Routes to School (SRTS) programs and 
related trip reduction strategies. 
Childcare Centers 
There are several childcare and Preschool centers located within the vicinity (2 miles) of the 
project location. Table 6 lists the childcare centers located close to the project site. 
Table 6 Childcare Centers 
Childcare  
Distance 
Walk 
Transit 
Drive 
Safari kid-San Mateo  
0.2 miles 
4 minutes 
- 
2 minutes 
Shu Academy  
0.3 miles 
7 minutes 
- 
3 minutes 
Intercommunal Preschool  
0.5 miles 
9 minutes 
8 minutes 
4 minutes 
Little Panda Home Family Daycare  
0.7 miles 
11 minutes 
10 minutes 
4 minutes 
Pita, Victoria Daycare  
0.9 miles 
17 minutes 
11 minutes 
4 minutes 
Amelia L’s Family Daycare  
1.0 miles 
20 minutes 
19 minutes 
6 minutes 
Lucy’s Learn and Play Daycare 
1.0 miles 
20 minutes 
13 minutes 
5 minutes 
Mi Second Casa Preschool and 
Daycare  
1.1 miles 
21 minutes 
11 minutes 
5 minutes 
Happy Kids Daycare and Preschool  
1.2 miles 
24 minutes 
12 minutes 
6 minutes 
Little Scientist Nursey School  
1.3 miles 
28 minutes 
27 minutes 
6 minutes 
4-KIDS Family Daycare  
1.4 miles 
27 minutes 
16 minutes 
6 minutes 
My little Mushroom Daycare  
1.5 miles 
30 minutes 
11 minutes 
6 minutes 
Zena’s Home Daycare  
1.8 miles 
35 minutes 
18 minutes 
8 minutes 
Foster City Preschool and Daycare 
Center  
2.0 miles 
41 minutes 
15 minutes 
8 minutes 
Nearby Schools  
1165 of 1252

--- page 1166 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 46 
 
There are over a dozen schools within two miles of the project site. A comprehensive list of 
schools located within 2 miles of the project site is provided in Table 7. 
Table 7 Nearby Schools 
 
*Assigned schools for the project site 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance in miles 
Art Academia  
0.3 
St. Matthew’s Episcopal Day School  
0.4 
St. Matthew Catholic Elementary School  
0.6 
Centennial Montessori School 
0.7 
Sunnybrae Elementary School* 
0.7 
La Escuelita Christian Academy 
1.0 
Stanbridge Academy  
1.0 
St. Timothy School  
1.0 
Baywood Elementary School  
1.1 
College Park Elementary School  
1.1 
San Mateo High School* 
1.1 
South Hillsborough Elementary  
1.1 
Aragon High School 
1.2 
Borel Middle School* 
1.2 
Crystal Springs Uplands School  
1.2 
North Shoreview Montessori  
1.2 
San Mateo Adult School  
1.2 
Pacific Rim International School  
1.4 
San Mateo Park School  
1.6 
St. Catherine of Siena School  
1.7 
1166 of 1252

--- page 1167 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 47 
 
San Mateo Safe Routes to School 
San Mateo County Safe Routes to School (SRTS) is a 
program of San Mateo County that encourages and 
enables school-age children to walk and bike to 
school. SRTS is intended to reduce school-travel 
related congestion and emissions around schools, as 
well as improve health and wellness through 
physical activity. The program is led and 
implemented by volunteers, often parents and PTA 
members. 
The project site is within the San Mateo-Foster 
School district and has been zoned for Sunnybrae 
Elementary School and Borel Middle School. These 
schools are included in the SRTS program. Figure 7 
shows the scope of the Safe Routes to School 
program for Borel Middle School within a half-mile 
radius, including suggested walking and biking 
routes. 
 
Figure 7 Walking and Biking Routes to Borel School 
Safe Route to School Map for Borel Middle School  
Other Educational Institutions  
There are two universities within a 2-mile driving radius from the site.  
• 
Draper University (0.2 miles) on 3rd Avenue is a private, for-profit school that offers boot 
camp-style educational programming in collaboration with Arizona State University. 
• 
Samuel Merritt University on S. Amphlett Boulevard (1.9 miles) is the San Francisco Peninsula 
campus of the Oakland-based Samuel Merritt private university, focused on health sciences.  
• 
Two key educational institutions are outside of a 2-mile radius but may also generate trips 
to/from the project site 
– 
San Mateo Community College (3.6 miles)  
– 
College of San Mateo (3.4 miles) 
 
 
Source: San Mateo Safe Routes to School 
1167 of 1252

--- page 1168 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 48 
 
Parks  
There are four parks located with a one-mile walking distance from the project site.  
• 
San Mateo Central Park – 0.2-mile walking distance 
– 
16.5-acre park, bounded by 9th Avenue to the south, E. 5th Avenue to the north, N. El 
Camino Real to the west, and Laurel Avenue to the east. Central Park is one of the most 
popular parks and attractions in San Mateo, which may need to be considered when 
determining TDM strategies. 
• 
De Anza Historical Park – 0.5-mile walking distance  
– 
Small park, located along Arroyo Court.  
• 
Gateway Park – 0.5-mile walking distance  
– 
Small park surrounded by housing and business that provides a pedestrian path through 
2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue. This park also has access to the San Mateo Creek.  
• 
Martin Luther King Jr. Park – 0.9-mile walking distance  
– 
The block sized park is bounded by Monte Diablo Avenue to the south, E. Santa Inez 
Avenue to the north, N. Eldorado Street to the west, and N. Fremont Street to the east. 
The park has a playground, a pool, and a community center that offers community 
activities.  
Available TDM Services  
Commute.org Incentives  
Commmute.org is the San Mateo County Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their 
resources are available to all residents and employees within San Mateo County. The residents 
and employees of the project site will have access to the TDM resources provide for commutes 
within the County and in the surrounding areas. They provide the following services:  
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free “Try Transit” program that allows 
individuals to request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards 
worth up to $100.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can 
be reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.   
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and marketing materials on biking are available to 
residents and commuters. These workshops are scheduled upon request and are available to 
employers and other development sites, including residential properties within San Mateo 
County.  
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo 
County with incentives worth between $25 to $200 for biking to work. To participate in the 
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides 
are then recorded in the STAR platform, Commute.org’s incentive delivery platform, where 
commuters can access their incentives.  
 
 
1168 of 1252

--- page 1169 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 49 
 
Travel Trends  
The travel trends described in this section are based on information from the Census Bureau for 
the project’s census tract (6063). 
Demographics  
The project site is located within Census Tract 6063. The Census Tract has a population of 4,110. 
The information outlined in Table 8 and Figure 8 below provides the general residents’ 
demographic profiles and travel behavior.  
Table 8 Census Tract 6063 Demographics Characteristics 
Category 
Characteristics 
Amount 
Age 
Under 18 
17% 
18 to 64 
57% 
Over 65 
26% 
Education  
Bachelor’s degree or higher 
48.5% 
Households  
Renter-Occupied Housing Units 
49% 
Number of households  
1,805 
Persons per household  
2.2 
Median household income  
$92,007 
Race 
White alone 
62% 
Asian alone 
29% 
Hispanic or Latino 
24% 
Black or African American 
3% 
Mixed 
4% 
Languages spoken 
Speaks English only  
53% 
Speaks a language other than English: Spanish  
19% 
Speaks a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 
7% 
Speaks a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island 
Languages 
18% 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov 
Commute Outlook  
Census Reporter data from 2019 indicates that majority (72%) of people that live within Census 
Tract 6063 drive alone to work. The data also reports that 21% of the population use sustainable 
modes of transportation such as public transit, carpooling and walking to commute to work, while 
5% of the population work from home. Of those that commute to work, the mean travel time is 
27.6 minutes. Of note, commuting patterns have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
may be in flux for some time as businesses gradually adjust their travel patterns. The post-
pandemic reality might result in new commuting patterns as more organizations implement 
hybrid and flexible working patterns. 
1169 of 1252

--- page 1170 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 50 
 
Figure 8 Commute mode split for Census Tract 6063 
 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers 16 and older)  
Where people work  
According to the ACT and as demonstrated in Table 9, residents in Census Tract 6063 commute to 
a variety of locations, with a majority commuting out of San Mateo. The City and County of San 
Francisco is the most common destination for commuters (20.6%) followed by the City of San 
Mateo (15.4%).  
Table 9 Distribution of job locations for residents of Census Tract 6063 
Job Location 
Count 
Share 
San Francisco, CA  
407 
20.6% 
San Mateo, CA  
305 
15.4% 
Redwood City, CA 
134 
6.8% 
Palo Alto, CA 
115 
5.8% 
South San Francisco, CA 
83 
4.2% 
Burlingame, CA 
69 
3.5% 
Foster City, CA 
62 
3.1% 
San Jose, CA 
53 
2.7% 
San Carlos, CA 
50 
2.5% 
Menlo Park, CA 
47 
2.4% 
All other locations  
650 
32.9% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
1,975 
100% 
Source: ACS 2019 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers 16 and older)  
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 9, depicts those 1,862 individuals 
that commute out of the area and 8,091 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. 
The high inflow number signifies that the region is dominated by commercial and mixed-use land-
1170 of 1252

--- page 1171 ---
222 E 4th Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
 
October 2022 | 51 
 
use types, with key employers including medical centers and downtown retail and restaurant 
establishments. A total of 113 individuals both live and work inside the census tract. 
Figure 9 Inflow and Outflow patterns 
 
Source: U.S Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
TOD Requirements  
Since the project site is not zoned as TOD, this policy does not apply.  
Next Steps  
Based on the information gleaned from the Background Assessment, our team will develop a Draft 
TDM Plan. The TDM Plan will include a list of recommended and optional TDM Strategies for the 
project site, and will touch on the following types of strategies: 
• 
Site elements 
• 
Education and incentives 
• 
Service provision 
• 
Monitoring and reporting 
Based on comments from the City of San Mateo we will edit and submit a finalized TDM Plan and 
will work with the City to ensure it is approved. 
 
1171 of 1252

--- page 1172 ---
Control Information 
Prepared by 
Prepared for 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
Steer project/proposal number 
Client contract/project number 
 
24174201 
 
Author/originator 
Reviewer/approver 
Parama Ghosh Roy 
Julia Wean  
 
Other contributors 
Distribution 
Barbara Ledesma, Titi Onabanjo  
Client: 
Steer: 
 
Version control/issue number 
Date 
10.28.2022 
 
1172 of 1252

--- page 1173 ---
steergroup.com 
 
1173 of 1252

--- page 1174 ---
1
From: Mia Maddalena 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 8:38 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draegers store and site.  
Dear City council members, 
I understand the need for more housing downtown but with all the people moving into the downtown 
area, where Do you think all these people will get their groceries if there is no large grocery store 
downtown?  
Not everyone will eat out all the time and with the prices of restaurants these days who can afford to eat 
in them regularly. The cost of living is so high we need another affordable grocery store downtown to 
shop at. You want to promote shopping  locally but the variety of stores downtown are dwindling and our 
town is becoming sad and un-interesting .  
The traffic will be a nightmare All those living downtown have to drive to a grocery store in another town. 
The logical solution is to place a grocery store back into the site where Draegers was!  
I’m loosing faith in this town  
-Mia Alioto
Sent from my iPad 
1174 of 1252

--- page 1175 ---
From: Caroline Caufield 
  
Sent: Wednesday, October 26, 2022 7:50 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draeger Redevelopment Project 
 
I would like to voice my concern that the space allocated for a grocery store is inadequate for a full 
service store. Downtown SM needs a grocery store that offers the full spectrum of food choices, not a 
quick shop like 7-11. If the developer has put together a plan that does not allow for that, send them 
back to the drawing board.  
 
Caroline Caufield 
, San Mateo 
 
Sent from Mail for Windows 
 
1175 of 1252

--- page 1176 ---
From: cj665 (null) 
  
Sent: Wednesday, August 31, 2022 3:22 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Save Draegers Market 
 
I am a supporter of Draegers Market and urge the city council to move to save it.  It’s the 
only reason I go to downtown San Mateo.  There’s nothing else there. 
 
I’d rather go to Burlingame Avenue or Laurel in San Carlos.  They offer more of a variety of 
shops and restaurants than San Mateo.   
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
1176 of 1252

--- page 1177 ---
Sent: Thursday, September 1, :20 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Please keep Grocery Downtown

Dear San Mateo City Council,

As a “retired” finance and commercial real estate professional, I am always interested in enhancing our
communities. I’m well aware of the benefits of development, particularly the beauty of gentrification,
efficiencies of modern construction/space and the income both property and sales tax adds to the City.
I’m a capitalist at heart but I’m also practical and someone very invested in the daily efficiencies of our
community/town. To that point, I very much respect Prometheus and Harvest Properties and their general
interest in preserving the needs of community while enhancing urban neighborhoods. What concerns me,
however, that many of these developers are not physically invested in these communities - i.e.dropping
kids at school, running a quick errand at a nearby full service grocery with efficient parking and running
back to school for a parent meeting.

We needed Trags and must keep Draegers. We have a very strong presence of seniors who used Trags
and continue to use Draegers. Many of these seniors walk to these grocers and don’t have the ability to
hop in a car to drive to Borel. As a local parent with kids in school downtown, I frequently stopped in
Trags to buy goodies for teachers or a forgotten lunch. With Trags gone I use Draegers in the same way.
It is my understanding that the new development where Draegers currently stands is considering
amending the ground floor grocery because of loading dock logistics. Figure it out, whether there or
nearby. We need multiple grocery options or you will be losing considerable business and tax dollars to
Burlingame.

San Mateo needs support for kids, seniors, and grocery stores and unique shopping options. Downtown
has an exorbitant amount of restaurants and vacancies. We need to think outside the box but not just big
business. Finding a balance is critical. It is no surprise that we need housing, affordable and other. With
housing comes hungry mouths but not everyone can afford take out or restaurants every night. Please
keep a full service grocer downtown.

Thank you,

Dawn Desautels

My kids are in school downtown

Sent from my iPhone

1177 of 1252


--- page 1178 ---
From: Amanda Alvarado Ford

Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 9:36 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Grocery store in downtown San Mateo

Dear San Mateo City Council,
Good morning. I wrote to urge you to maintain a full service grocery store in downtown San Mateo,
preferably operated by Draegers. The community needs access to healthy foods. Thank you

Kind Regards,
Amanda Alvarado Ford

1178 of 1252


--- page 1179 ---
1
From: Marcus Gilmour 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 11:13 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira 
Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draeger's Project Update 
Dear Council Members and Planning Commissioners,  
It was brought to my attention that a community member posted a false update on our Draeger’s project on the 
Nextdoor website yesterday. Here is a link to the post:  Draeger's Project Post (also pasted below in case you can’t 
access nextdoor) 
In the post he claims that the project will no longer be providing space for a future grocery store “due to city concerns 
about the loading dock required for such a store.” The purpose of my email here is to assure you all that this is not 
true.  Our plan, which has remained consistent from the outset, is to design the ground floor retail space to 
accommodate a future grocery store tenant as we recognize how critical it is to the downtown community to have 
access to a walkable/bikeable grocery store, not to mention the community at large which will benefit from fewer cars 
on the road.  In fact, the goal is to bring Draeger’s back into the new project and we are currently discussing this 
scenario with them now.  I’m confident that if I can provide Richard Draeger with some predictability around project 
approvals/construction timing, etc. that we can come to an agreement on a new lease.   
I’m meeting with the individual that posted the nextdoor update today and I will walk him through our plans for the 
project.  In addition, our team continues to engage the community on this project including the Gramercy residents and 
other key stakeholders.  In fact, if you are able to forward any emails or messages you’ve received on this issue I will 
reach out to each person individually and offer to meet for coffee to talk about the project.   
Finally, I’d encourage folks to visit our project website here:  https://courbanize.com/projects/222‐east‐4th‐
ave/information 
Through this site we post project updates and provide a platform for community feedback. To date, we have over 380 
comments from community members.   
Should you have any questions about the project please don’t hesitate to reach out to me directly via email or on my cell 
(We are finally breaking ground on our 180 3rd Ave project [formerly Aaron Brothers] on the corner of 3rd and Ellsworth 
later this month and wanted to make you all aware as well) 
Regards, 
1179 of 1252

--- page 1180 ---
Marcus Gilmour
Lane Partners

PLEASE URGENTLY SUPPORT A DOWNTOWN FULL-LINE GROCERY AT DRAEGER
REDEVELOPMENT! For more than a year the premise has been that a larger building there would still feature
a full-line grocery, albeit at reduced footprint. Other floors would include offices with a floor or two of housing. At
a public meeting held earlier this year by the Planning Commission there was every indication that the
developer was fashioning the ground floor to include a grocery, and working specifically with Draeger’s to return
once built. Now however there are indications that the position of a loading dock is causing conflict with the
apartment building to the south and with planned bike lanes to the east along B Street. The whole premise of
downtown housing is that it reduces car trips when people can walk to retail, restaurants, parks and
entertainment. The loss of a full line general grocery after the demise of Trag’s would reverse this entire
concept for a livable, walkable downtown and is extremely short sighted. | just completed an online poll that
hints that what | heard earlier is true—the grocery store may be scrapped from the project, due to city concerns
about the loading dock required for such a store. Building much more housing and offices downtown but
Stripping it of retail and especially a full grocery store is completely illogical. I’m all for bike lanes and strongly
and tirelessly supported the bike lanes in North Central on my street. We cannot lose our last general grocery
and have people driving to groceries miles away from all the downtown housing. Please, contact the Planning
Commission and especially every City Council member and let them know this cannot go forward without a
solution that retains a full line general grocer downtown, walkable and Nimes Le ti thr downtown housing and
nearby neighborhoods. Thanks!

LANE (PARTNERS

MARCUS J. GILMOUR | Principal

LANE-PARTNERS.COM

1180 of 1252


--- page 1181 ---
From: Juliet Hooker ia

Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 10:03 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Grocery store needed

Members
We need a grocery store in San Mateo that is large and middle class and easy to access.

Julie Hooker.

Sent from my iPhone

1181 of 1252


--- page 1182 ---
From: Ed keh i
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 10:40 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Support Draeger grocery store
Dear Council members:

Please support a downtown Draeger development with a complete grocery store. Why should people
have to waste gas and time driving to multiple store to buy their groceries.

Ed Kahl

1182 of 1252


--- page 1183 ---
From: Edward Keith

Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 3:23 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> Subject: Grocery store in
downtown San Mateo

Dear Council Members:

>> I urge you to make sure we have a full service grocery store in downtown San Mateo. I have heard
rumors that they are taking out Draeger’s in the new building project.
>> After removing Trags and now Safeway on 17th and soon Trader Joe’s, the residents of San Mateo
will be left with no major shopping area for groceries, and other essentials. This will be a great hardship
for the elderly and the handicapped, and will only add unwanted automobile traffic.
>> Please do not take Draeger’s too. It needs a large space to provide for the needs of all the residents.
A truncated version of the existing Draeger’s will not solve the problem. Please review this situation and
make changes that will benefit our community and its residents.
>> Sincerely,

Edward J Keith

From Ed Keith

1183 of 1252


--- page 1184 ---
1
From: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 3:50 PM 
To: Ashley Snodgrass <asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: FW: B Street South Proposed Project ‐‐ Keep a full size grocery store as a requirement 
Hi Ashely, 
The following email was received.  Can you please forward to the appropriate staff members. 
Thank you, 
Laura Aguirre
Senior Development Review Technician, Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7187 | laguirre@cityofsanmateo.org  
Visit the Citizen Self‐Service (CSS) Portal today! Skip the line…now you can submit for permits online, track permits, 
planning applications, code enforcement cases, business tax records, and request inspections online from anywhere, 
at any time using a computer, tablet, or smartphone! 
From: Suzanne Kennedy 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 2:41 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: B Street South Proposed Project ‐‐ Keep a full size grocery store as a requirement 
Dear San Mateo City Council Members and San Mateo City Planning Department, 
I urge you to support the inclusion of a full size grocery store in this proposed project. The loss of the 
current Draegers market will be a tragedy for downtown San Mateo, its residents, and visitors if it is not 
replaced with a full size grocery store, preferably one as service oriented and unique as Draegers. 
Draegers is a destination for my family and a reason we will go downtown and then go to other stores or 
businesses.  But other families and individuals that live or will live (after more housing is added), having a 
1184 of 1252

--- page 1185 ---
2
full size grocery story is a integral part of a vibrant place to live.  There is little value in adding housing 
near transportation when residents must drive out of the area to go food shopping.  
Please make sure that this project is not a loss of a community resource by keeping a full size grocery 
store required for its realization. 
Sincerely, 
Suzanne Kennedy 
 
San Mateo 
1185 of 1252

--- page 1186 ---
From: Jeannine a mrp ere

Sent: Thursday, September 1, :38 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support of a Full-line Grocery Store in downtown San Mateo

To whom this may concern,

I fully support the continuation of a full-line grocery store at the Draeger location. This is one of the
wonderful features of living in the downtown area. Walking instead of driving a vehicle to the store.
What is left in the downtown area? Restaurants, offices, and banks. Part of affordable housing is to be
able to support our area and walk to and from our homes. I support bike lanes however losing our last
general grocery store and being forced to rely on an automobile will lose the appeal of downtown
affordable housing.

Respectfully,

Jeannine Klopocki

San Mateo, CA. 94402

1186 of 1252


--- page 1187 ---
1
From: Jean Kovacs 
  
Sent: Wednesday, August 31, 2022 5:53 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draegers Replacement 
Please include a Draegers replacement in the same location. San Mateo needs a downtown full‐service 
grocery store. 
Jean Kovacs 
Partner 
1187 of 1252

--- page 1188 ---
From: Laura Krewe ie
Sent: Monday, September 5, 2022 2:53 PM

To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Regarding Draegers in SM

Someone posted on NextDoor that you are considering not having Draegers in the new bldg in San
Mateo.

I’m emailing to say I 100 percent want Draegers to remain with a location in San Mateo and it’s essential
downtown San Mateo has a grocery store that downtown residents can walk to.

Laura Krawec

San Mateo

Sent from my mobile

1188 of 1252


--- page 1189 ---
1
From: Levaggi, Scott 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 10:12 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Scott and Anna Levaggi 
 
Subject: grocery store 
To whom it may concern, 
I have lived closed to downtown SM for 25 years plus and have worked downtown for 15 plus years. 
Downtown needs and must have a sufficient Grocery Store.   
Scott Levaggi 
 
San Mateo, Ca 94402 
 
This message, and any attachments, is for the intended recipient(s) only, may contain information that is privileged, 
confidential and/or proprietary and subject to important terms and conditions available at 
http://www.bankofamerica.com/emaildisclaimer. If you are not the intended recipient, please delete this message. 
1189 of 1252

--- page 1190 ---
1
From: Michal Lim 
  
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 7:08 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fw: Grocery Store Needed Downtown 
From: Michal Lim 
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 7:03 PM 
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.gov <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.gov> 
Subject: Grocery Store Needed Downtown  
Dear Council Members, 
Please, please, please make sure that San Mateo keeps a grocery store downtown.  All the people who will be 
moving into the new housing units being constructed shouldn't have to drive to a grocery store.  I now have 3 
friends who are older and have bought condos around downtown.  Many reasons were cited for their decision 
to move out of single‐family houses—proximity to stores, restaurants, bus stops, the train, Central Park, the 
library, and access to groceries.  They all shop at Dean's, as do I when I need to go to the bank or do other 
shopping.  We need to keep a full grocery store as well as other small stores.   There are so many restaurants 
which is great but a variety of retailers would be good, too. 
I have emailed, taken surveys, and asked questions before without anyone listening or so it seems.  One issue 
I've talked about a lot is the need for parking at the new Trader Joe's that will be constructed by 92.  The new 
location will also be less convenient because it will be on a busier road.  I'm only hoping that shopping early in 
the morning on weekdays will make it easier for us retirees! 
Candidly yours, 
MIchal Lim 
1190 of 1252

--- page 1191 ---
1
From: Mimi Maslan 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 5:21 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: URGENT ‐ Grocery store need in downtown 
To those planning the future of downtown ‐ 
Please, please, please make sure that downtown San Mateo has a full size grocery store as you plan for the future. I 
work on 3rd Ave and my husband works down near 9th Ave. While we are residents of Burlingame, I do at least 50% of 
our grocery shopping at Draegers. It is super convenient to the business district and to all of the apartments/homes in 
the area. Please plan to keep a grocery store for our convenience and for our quality of life. In addition, there are many 
elderly in the area that need an option too. 
Thank you for reading this. 
Mimi Maslan 
 
1191 of 1252

--- page 1192 ---
From: Bob O'Pezio 
  
Sent: Thursday, November 10, 2022 9:16 AM 
To: planning-commission@smcgov.org 
Cc: Wendy Lao <wlao@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: B Street South project 
 
Planning Commission,  
• 
We are writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved 
as proposed with a full service grocery store and no taller than five (5) stories.  
Robert & Sharron O’Pezio 
 
San Mateo 
 
1192 of 1252

--- page 1193 ---
From: Bob O'Pezio 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 25, 2022 9:55 AM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Lane B Street south proposal 
 
Mr. Bustos, 
As senior citizen residents in San Mateo we rely heavily on Draegers market so we strongly urge the 
Planning Commission to require that a full service grocery store remain at Draeger’s location. 
 
We also urge you to require any structure to be a maximum of five stories and preferably less.   
 
Since our previous objections to the proposal (see below) have had no impact please support  the 
current design and not the Planning Commission design which calls for another story on top.  
Thank you, 
 
Robert & Sharron O’Pezio 
 
San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
                We vehemently oppose the project and urge you to disapprove Lane’s proposal. The project will 
adversely affect our lives and the lives of all existing residents for the           following reasons: 
1. Environmental degradation caused by the demolition 
2. Noise pollution and inconvenience to surrounding residents and businesses 
3. Loss of Draegers a valued retail/grocery store that is within walking distance and critical to nearby 
residents. 
4. Increased traffic congestion with the resulting pollution and inconvenience 
5. Negative impact on local restaurants and retailers. 
 
 
1193 of 1252

--- page 1194 ---
From: Bob O'Pezio cas IOPEESHLSE\ Cm

Sent: Saturday, July 9, 2022 6:05 AM

To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Lane B Street south proposal

We vehemently oppose the project and urge you to disapprove Lane’s proposal. The project will adversely
affect our lives and the lives of all existing residents for the following reasons:

1. Environmental degradation caused by the demolition 2. Noise pollution and inconvenience to
surrounding residents and businesses 3. Loss of Draegers a valued retail/grocery store that is within
walking distance and critical to nearby residents.

4. Increased traffic congestion with the resulting pollution and inconvenience 5. Negative impact on local
restaurants and retailers.

Thank you for your consideration

Robert OPezio
Sharron O'Pezio

an Mateo,

1194 of 1252


--- page 1195 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Judith Paton 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 11, 2022 8:44 AM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New high rises downtown  
 
Please take this opportunity to establish design standards for our downtown that add to the historic 
look, rather than allowing developers to build utilitarian façades that clash with it. In the long run it’s 
good for business because people are drawn to neighborhoods that are attractive. You have already 
received several pictures of attractive buildings, of which the 101 Ellsworth project is one example.  
With this many new proposals in the works, this is the time to choose to make our downtown beautiful.  
Thank you  
Judith Paton 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
1195 of 1252

--- page 1196 ---
From: Janet Periat 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 24, 2022 9:28 AM 
To: Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Closure of 17th Avenue Safeway  
  
Addendum to my earlier letter: 
 
One of the main reasons for my emotional response regarding the possibility of losing Safeway (along 
with the logical points I presented): 
 
In October 2020, I woke up from a seizure having lost 30 plus years of memories. I had no idea who my 
husband of 30 years was. All I knew was that I went to bed at 27 years old in Pescadero and woke up in 
my grandmother’s house here in San Mateo at 61 years old. I lost my ability to drive, I was deeply 
confused, fatigued and distraught. I lost my ability to use my computer or phone. Caring for myself was 
like scaling Everest. But I could get to Safeway. I couldn’t get to downtown because I’d forgotten how to 
get there, plus it was too far, but I knew where Safeway was, and I could get there on foot. It became a 
lifeline for me. 
 
I have since mostly healed. I’m on anti-seizure meds,  I can drive, I’m obviously back on the computer, 
and I can write my humor columns once more, and my novels. 
 
But that experience of losing my cognitive abilities, my through-line, experiencing that extreme 
disorientation of not recognizing my own husband, losing my past and present, gave me a window into 
my potential 90s. How hard it would be if I lost my ability to use a computer again, if I didn’t have a 
husband to care for me, if I faced that kind of confusion again. I’m childless and estranged from my 
family. I have to be able to depend on myself. I want to stay in San Mateo. I know if I lose my mind once 
more, I’ll probably still recognize my grandmother’s house. Part of my plan to stay here and care for 
myself in my later years was the ability to walk to that Safeway. 
 
My adage has always been “Well, at least I’ll be able to walk to Safeway to get my food.” And now you 
people are going to take that anchor of safety from me. 
 
So be it. Things change. I keep hearing Bruce Lee’s quote in my head: "Be like water, my friend, be like 
water.”  
 
So maybe my river now needs to flow elsewhere. I just was never expecting to lose that Safeway. 
 
However, I’m glad I’m finding out now rather than having Safeway taken away from me at ninety. Like 
my neighbors. Some of whom are autistic, disabled, in their mid-nineties, dependent on that grocery 
store for survival. I know how scared they’ll be when they find out. How will they care for themselves? 
they’ll ask. Answer? Who knows? 
 
Thanks for listening. I know you’re trying your best. I wouldn’t want your job because no choice you 
make can possilbly satisfy everyone. 
 
I’m just worried about losing precious resources, like the ability to walk to a reasonably-priced grocery 
store. We lost Lucky years back, but gained so many more people. 
 
1196 of 1252

--- page 1197 ---
It’s just making it so challenging for your disabled and elderly residents to survive here. 
 
Thanks again, 
 
Janet Periat 
> On Apr 24, 2022, at 7:28 AM, Janet Periat <
> wrote: 
>  
> Dear Ms. Papan: 
>  
> I was greatly alarmed by the decision of the City Council on April 18th to close the grocery store and 
redevelop the Safeway property at 17th Avenue. Also by the response of a City Council member who 
said that the residents could “all shop at Draeger’s.” Which you have already approved for closure. And 
as of a week ago, Draeger’s has no firm plans to stay, and hasn’t found an alternative grocery space. 
>  
> So there won’t be any grocery stores within walking distance of my neighborhood. 
>  
> I’m actually getting tears here just thinking about what you folks are planning to take from me. 
>  
> Beyond that, even if Draeger’s stayed, it’s out of the price range of the majority of residents in my area 
of Homestead. It’s like comparing Maseratis to Hondas. “They can all buy Maseratis now that we don’t 
offer Hondas." 
>  
> I have many friends in their seventies, eighties and nineties who walk to that Safeway twice a day to 
get their meals. Twice a day. They walk. Where will they go for food? They don’t have computers, they 
don’t have kids caring for them, they are dependent on that Safeway for survival. 
>  
> And the flippancy with the response “They can all shop at Draeger’s” to me means that no one on the 
council is tracking the grocery-stores-per-resident ratio. It also says to me that the council doesn’t care 
at all about the elderly who depend on a neighborhood grocery store for survival. 
>  
> I understand you folks are under pressure to provide more housing, but a mixed use building there 
with offices, we don’t need. We need a grocery store there. 
>  
> I planned on retiring here in my family home of 100 years, which is three blocks from the Safeway. My 
mother shopped there when I was a kid, my earliest memories of grocery shopping are from that store. 
But my emotional response is beside the point. 
>  
> The point is, the quality of life for your residents is getting worse. You aren’t thinking of the neighbors 
living in the redeveloped areas, you aren’t tracking grocery store per resident ratios, the callousness of 
“they can shop at Draeger’s” and then quickly moving on from the subject of cutting off the lifeline for 
hundreds if not thousands of residents was beyond cruel. And also alarming that no one on the Council 
bothered to bring up the fact that Draeger’s is closing. 
>  
> And also shows that no one is looking at the whole picture. No one is thinking of the elderly. You’re 
just concentrating on helping developers, not your residents. 
>  
> We need that Safeway. We need it to stay. I don’t care if you put some huge building there, just make 
sure Safeway is the first floor. 
1197 of 1252

--- page 1198 ---
>  
> Think of your elderly residents who depend on that Safeway for survival. Think of your residents. Think 
of someone other than developers and the state requirements to build. 
>  
> I am beyond upset by this. That store is/was part of my retirement plan. I knew if all else failed, I could 
get over there to feed myself. Now you’re taking that option away from me. 
>  
> But I guess I can move elsewhere. Because I’m beginning to see that I can’t depend on the City Council 
watching out for me or my elderly friends who are trying to survive here. 
>  
> Which is sad. I was born at Mills Hospital downtown. I grew up here. My great-grandmother started an 
auto business here in the 1920s that lasted fifty years. I’m the last Periat living in San Mateo. And I’m 
starting to see that it may be time for the last Periat to sell and move away. 
>  
> Breaks my heart. 
>  
> With respect, 
>  
> Janet Periat 
 
1198 of 1252

--- page 1199 ---
1
From: Susie Reeves 
  
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 9:58 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown San Mateo and Draegers 
To whom it may concern, 
Why are you destroying downtown San Mateo?  Isn’t it bad enough that you are getting rid of the ethnic mon and pop 
businesses and restaurants ‐ for what? More expensive housing.  I loved our downtown because of all the eclectic stores 
and restaurants. Isn’t it bad enough that Traggs was replaced with housing —  and now soon Draegers‐‐ our last local 
grocery store downtown.   Having no full grocery store downtown in not acceptable!! 
How much more housing do we need downtown?  You are turning downtown into nothing more than housing and 
restaurants.   It was so nice to have a downtown that I could do all my shopping or just pick up a few needed groceries 
on my daily walk.   
Please think this through beyond the $$$. No more housing in downtown San Mateo and please leave Dragers alone!!! 
Susie Reeves 
 
“I would rather stand with God and be judged by the world, than stand with the world and be judged by God.” 
1199 of 1252

--- page 1200 ---
From: Marianne Riegg cm merpperrcKn:

Sent: Thursday, September 1, : M

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.gov
Subject: regarding grocery store at 5th and Ellsworth/B street

I am writing, as a resident 0 Please put me on the list of locals
who need and will support a full service grocery store at the Draegers location.

Thank you,
Marianne Riegg

San Mateo, CA 94401

1200 of 1252


--- page 1201 ---
From: Janice 
 
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 1:16 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: downtown grocery store needed
To City council and city redevelopment planners, 
I am writing with regard to redevelopment plans for downtown San Mateo, specifically the Draeger's site
at 4th and B street, and downtown SM generally (eg former Trag's site). 
I believe it is essential to retain a reasonable and usable site for a full-service grocery in the downtown
area, and was under the impression that Draeger's would likely continue to operate in the new building. I
am now hearing that this is unlikely and/or the size of proposed allocation will make it unlikely for other
grocers as well. 
The necessity of a full service grocer is consistent with the building of increased transit oriented
development. If we want people to walk and not use cars, we need to have essential services within
walking distance. I have been a consistent patron of Draeger's since it was built, more often than not
accessing the store by foot from Sunnybrae rather than driving. As an able-bodied walker, I am fortunate
to have 3 choices of walkable grocery stores, but many in the downtown and north of downtown area will
specifically need a downtown grocer. 
Please keep the original intention of creating a suitable and economically viable space for a full-service
grocer in downtown San Mateo development. 
Respectfully, 
Janice Schreckengost and Steve Greenblatt
San Mateo, CA 94402
1201 of 1252

--- page 1202 ---
From: Francie 
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 8:09 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Development
Greetings -
We are residents of San Mateo and one of the main the reasons we moved here is because of our walkable city. 
Since my husband doesn’t drive, having Draeger’s nearby was extremely attractive, as well as other local businesses 
and beautiful Central Park. We are saddened that another new development is taking over the Draeger’s spot with 
talks of no full-line grocery taking its place because of loading dock issues. Now wouldn’t this have been 
determined as the project was approved? Why don’t you leave the perfectly good building there which has 
underground parking, loading abilities and other business space on top of the grocery store?
I realize it’s too late to stop this project, but please understand you are not acting on behalf of your citizens to keep 
building large projects, which detract from city architecture and remove affordable places for small business owners 
to offer their services. Please, please stop and consider your resident tax payers who rely on local businesses and 
need to have a full line grocery store (and other services) within our downtown area.
Tom & Frances Souza
Sent from my iPhone
1202 of 1252

--- page 1203 ---
1
From: Candace De Souza 
  
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 8:21 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo Deveopment 
Subject: Grocery store in downtown San Mateo 
Dear Council members: 
I urge you to make sure we have a full service grocery store in downtown San Mateo.  I have heard 
rumors that they are taking out Draeger’s in the new building project.  
After removing Trags and now Safeway  on 17th and soon Trader Joe’s, we are left with nothing.   
Please do not take Draeger’s too.  It needs a large space and we have heard only a small area has been 
allocated.  Changes need to be made now!! 
Respectfully, 
Candace De Souza 
  
San Mateo, CA. 94401 
Sent from my iPhone 
1203 of 1252

--- page 1204 ---
From: Richard Draeger 
  
Sent: Monday, November 14, 2022 4:51 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Lane Project at 222 E. Fourth Ave 
 
Dear City Council and Planning Commission Members, 
 
The purpose of this letter is to provide support for Lane Parners' proposed mixed-use project on 
our existing Draeger's Market site in the Downtown. We have been working on the design and 
operational details of the retail area alongside the project team for the past 2 years. The layout 
will be able to accommodate a full-service grocer and is similar in size to our Los Altos location. 
It will be able to provide the quality offerings that the San Mateo community desires. In addition, 
we believe the community plaza area on the corner of 4th and Ellsworth will create an enjoyable 
experience and natural community gathering spot for customers, Downtown residents and 
visitors. While I recognize the concern expressed by some residents at the downsizing of the 
existing store, the size of the retail space within the proposed project is large enough to 
accommodate a practical grocery store and the design has been tailored specifically to achieve 
this outcome. 
 
In conclusion, I fully support the proposed project and look forward to seeing it approved after all 
these years. 
 
Regards, 
 
Richard A. Draeger 
  Draeger's Super Markets, Inc. 
 
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL -- ALL information transmitted hereby is intended only for the use of the addressee(s) 
named above.  If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or the employee or the agent responsible for 
delivering the message to the intended recipient(s), please note that any distribution or copying of this communication is 
strictly prohibited.  Anyone who receives this communication in error should notify us immediately by telephone and 
return the original message to us at the above address via the U.S. mail. 
                                 t
 
1204 of 1252

--- page 1205 ---
From: Eric Sundstrom 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 15, 2022 4:00 PM 
To: Wendy Lao <wlao@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Marcus Gilmour <marcus@lane-partners.com> 
Subject: Re: Draeger's redevelopment public comment 
 
Regarding restrictive covenants, here is an article describing a similar situation in Palo Alto: 
 
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2020/11/09/family-owned-grocery-store-seeks-to-set-up-shop-at-college-
terrace-centre 
 
In this case the JJ&F Market on El Camino Real was redeveloped, with the covenant ensuring a grocery store remains in 
the space despite multiple changes in tenancy. For the Draeger's development the location is already a prime location 
for a grocer with ample parking and foot traffic, so there should be minimal risk to the developer in adopting such a 
covenant. 
 
Regards, 
 
Eric 
 
On Tue, Nov 15, 2022 at 3:44 PM Eric Sundstrom 
 wrote: 
To the San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing in regards to the proposed redevelopment of the Draeger's Market at 222 E. 4th Avenue. 
 
This project will reduce retail square footage from 59k to 17k square feet for a site at the heart of the downtown retail 
core. In addition, the applicant is requesting a variance to reduce required retail frontage from 75% to 47% on B 
Street, 4th Avenue, and Ellsworth. As a result, the B Street frontage - San Mateo's signature shopping street - consists 
primarily of a blank wall fronting the parking garage. The continual elimination of retail space across downtown will only 
serve to drive up retail rents on balance, driving out the independent small businesses we cherish. 
 
In exchange, the applicant offers a public plaza and 10 units of affordable housing. These 10 units are a drop in the 
bucket for a project that will likely employ 300-500 people in 100k square feet of office space. Directly across the street, 
the developers of 445 South B Street are proposing full retail frontage along B, alongside 60 units of affordable housing. 
Overall, the benefits provided here do not match the impact on our jobs / housing imbalance, alongside the impacts of 3 
years of construction during which downtown will have no full service grocery store.  
 
While not every project can balance jobs and housing, this project should only be approved if the developer provides a 
meaningful contribution to the vibrancy of our downtown retail core. This could potentially include contributions 
towards the B Street pedestrian mall conversion, an enhanced retail environment on the B Street frontage, and/or a 
restrictive covenant to ensure the grocery space remains a full-service grocery in perpetuity. 
 
Regards, 
 
Eric Sundstrom 
 
San Mateo, CA 
 
1205 of 1252

--- page 1206 ---
From: Lisa Taner 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 16, 2022 11:12 AM 
To: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Laurie Hietter 
; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna 
Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Please Postpone Draeger's Meeting 
 
Hi Christina, 
 
I concur with Ms. Hietter that the Thursday special meeting should be postponed.  Aside from having 
access to a second San Mateo grocery store removed (possibly forever or a very long while - placing 
MORE residents in vehicles to obtain foodstuffs,),which should be discussed in great detail with 
residents, there is the matter of Planning Commissioner Nugent presiding over anything at the moment 
due to the current investigation of his misdemeanor case by the District Attorney's office. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Lisa Taner 
 
On Wed, Nov 16, 2022 at 8:36 AM Laurie Hietter 
 wrote: 
Dear Ms. Horrisberger, 
 
The staff report for the Draeger's project was posted at 7 pm on Monday, exactly 72 hours before the 
Thursday special Planning Commission meeting. I was dismayed to see that the packet contains 1,204 
pages, including the CEQA document for the project. 
 
My concern is that the Planning Commission will not have time to read and absorb all of the documents 
prior to making a decision to approve the subject documents. It is also an unreasonable burden on the 
public to have so little time to review and formulate comments on the documents.  
 
I request that you postpone the meeting.  
 
I am also concerned about Adam Nugent sitting on the Planning Commission when he has displayed 
such appalling bad judgment by removing Rob Newsom campaign signs, remaining silent about it for a 
week, and then making a series of excuses for his illegal behavior. We, and many other city residents, 
have requested that the City Council remove Adam Nugent from the Planning Commission. 
 
 
I respectfully request your response. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Laurie Hietter 
 
1206 of 1252

--- page 1207 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Thursday, November 17, 2022 3:38 PM 
To: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments on the 222 E. 4th Ave. Draeger's Market Project 
 
Hi,  
 
Please see my comments on the proposed project at 222E. 4th Ave. (Draeger's Market). I have also 
enclosed my summary of the cumulative projects gleaned from the city's website, upon which I base 
many of my comments. Please do revise it if I have numbers in error (I know some have changed a little 
bit).  
 
Please forward these comments to your planner. The city website seems to be stuck so I can't look it up.  
 
Also, I hope that the Planning Commission will follow the City Council's approach of asking for Zoom 
participants to raise their hands at the beginning so we don't have the last-minute out-of-town callers 
trying to even out the numbers.  
 
Thank you.  
 
Best, 
 
Laurie  
1207 of 1252

--- page 1208 ---
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
  
1 
 
COMMENTS ON 222 E. 4TH AVENUE (DRAEGER’S MARKET) 
Key comments on the proposed project: 
1. Jobs/Housing Imbalance. The project adds to a jobs/housing imbalance and should 
include more housing. 
2. Loss of Downtown Grocery. The loss of Draeger’s Market would be a substantial 
hardship to seniors and others who rely on the only downtown market. Even the 
loss of Draeger’s for the ~2 year construction period would be a hardship for 
downtown. 
3. Too Much Office Space. There is over 132,000 square feet of available office space 
downtown, not counting the 260,000 square feet of approved office space for the 
Trag’s site, 180 E. 3rd, and 500 E. 3rd. There is another about 600,000 square feet 
pending.  
4. Inadequate Cumulative Impact Analysis.  The CEQA Addendum and supporting 
documents do not adequately identify the cumulative impact scenarios and compare 
them to the General Plan and the Downtown Plan.  
5. Design. The design of the project is not compatible.  
6. The CEQA Addendum is Inadequate. The assumptions for population are 
overstated given the 10 units are studio and one bedroom. The estimate of 
employees per 1,000 square feet of office space is high. Most tech firms now use 150-
200 square feet, which means the number of employees, traffic trips and parking 
needs are undercounted.  The Addendum does not provide assumptions for 
cumulative projects, which underestimates the impacts related to Air Quality, Noise, 
Traffic and Parking.  
7. The Short Review Period is Inadequate. Three days to review the staff report of 
over 1,200 pages is inadequate for the public. Please provide the environmental 
document links on the “What’s Happening in Development” page.  
 
OFFICE VS. HOUSING 
This project has a substantial jobs/housing imbalance. The building should include additional 
housing.  
In 2021, the planning commissioners were quoted in the Daily Journal (September 17, 2021):  
“I don’t want to necessarily say no to office development per se, but again the jobs-housing 
imbalance is the elephant in the room when we are looking at this proposal,” Commissioner 
Adam Nugent said at a Sept. 14 meeting to discuss the proposed development.  
1208 of 1252

--- page 1209 ---
Planning Commission 
November 17, 2022 
Page 2 
 
Hietter Comments on 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) 
“We did not get into this housing crisis from one developer building 10 million square feet of 
office space. We got into this crisis by a thousand paper cuts. Repeated decisions to approve 
office projects without a plan for how we were going to provide the full amount of accompanied 
residential space that would be needed to serve those workers,” Patel said. 
Commissioner John Ebneter suggested more units in the proposal to address growing housing 
needs in San Mateo and to meet the city’s downtown plan calling for higher density. 
Vice Chair Margaret Williams appreciated Draeger’s filling the needs for San Mateo residents 
and wanted to see it stay. She also was concerned about the job to housing imbalance and 
wanted to see about another floor of housing. 
What happened? Did the applicant revise the project to reflect the comments of the Planning 
Commission?  
The addition of 10 below market rate housing units is a benefit to downtown San Mateo. The 
project would include 104,550 square feet of office space and 17,000 square feet of retail, with 
9,000 square feet of housing. The proposed project, however, would add to the jobs/housing 
imbalance in downtown San Mateo. This project is one of nine downtown projects with a 
significant jobs/housing imbalance. There are 13 proposed and approved downtown projects 
with over 850,000 square feet of office space proposed and only 737 housing units. The parking 
imbalance is significant.  
The project should provide more housing and less office space because there is substantial 
unleased office space downtown.  
Unleased Existing Office Space Downtown as of November 2022 
520 S. El Camino Real  34,705 square feet 
16 E. 3rd Ave 
. 
 
  7, 204 
60 E. 3rd Ave. 
 
 
46,524 
180 E. 3rd/300 S. Ellsworth 
26,495  
401-403 E. 3rd Ave. 
 
11,968  
195 E. 4th Ave.  
 
  9,532 
343-345 S. B Street 
 
29,402 
201 S. B St.  
 
 
12,320 
 
 
 
 
132,483 square feet available 
 
The city is tasked with meeting our Regional Housing Needs Allocation. Adding excess office 
space does not help San Mateo meet the RHNA requirements. 
1209 of 1252

--- page 1210 ---
Planning Commission 
November 17, 2022 
Page 3 
 
Hietter Comments on 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) 
The project will greatly exacerbate the parking problem downtown.  It is disappointing that 
Ellsworth and B Street will not have any retail. 
LOSS OF DRAEGER’S 
The loss of Draeger’s would be huge. Is this the right place for a project?  
The project means that the city will be without a full grocery store, after losing Trag’s, for the 
20+ month construction period. Who knows how long the construction will last in this economic 
environment? This is a hardship for local residents and the entire community who rely on 
Draeger’s. 
Draeger’s is also a tourist attraction with busloads of visitors. Has the city considered the loss of 
this attraction? 
Please consider providing a temporary location for the aspects of Draeger's that are not 
available downtown, such as the meat and fish, bakery, hot food, wine department, cookware 
and gifts, etc. 
NEED FOR CUMULATIVE IMPACT ANALYSIS OF DOWNTOWN PROJECTS 
The City has approved seven substantial projects downtown, with nine additional projects that 
are coming up. Please provide the community with an estimated timeline for the construction of 
all of these projects and prepare an accompanying cumulative impact analysis, especially 
related to traffic, air quality, noise, and parking. 
Downtown will be a construction nightmare of noise, traffic, dust, and toxic air contaminants.  
COMMENTS ON DESIGN 
We agree with the comments of the Cannon Design Group and request that their 
recommendations be followed. The building style and articulation does not blend well with 
existing buildings. The box on box style is not compatible with downtown.  
Did Cannon have access to and/or review the other approved and proposed downtown 
projects. We suggest that they review and comment on those projects as well. 
COMMENTS ON EIR ADDENDUM 
Project Description 
p. 10, para. 1: What will the diesel generator supply? Is it for the retail, office or residential uses, 
or all of the uses? Will diesel be stored on site? Where and how much? How often will the unit 
be tested and have emissions? How will the emissions be vented from the garage? 
1210 of 1252

--- page 1211 ---
Planning Commission 
November 17, 2022 
Page 4 
 
Hietter Comments on 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) 
Site Access and Parking 
p. 10, para. 3: The parking is inadequate and the removal of 22 on-street parking spaces further 
compounds the downtown parking problem. The office uses alone will bring 600 people to the 
site, not counting retail employees and residents, and provide only 226 parking spaces. There is 
no parking allocated for residents. The project should provide more parking. 
p. 10, para. 4: The 38 bicycle spaces are inadequate for the 700 office workers and 10 residential 
units, especially with the inadequate parking. 
Construction 
p. 20, last para.: The Addendum says construction will last 20 months but the ECORP 
greenhouse gas emissions analysis states that construction will take place over 3 years. Please 
clarify and resolve. Revised affected analyses if the construction would last more than 20 
months. 
p. 29, Impact AES-3: Please reference that the height of 75 feet allowed by AB1763 is not 
consistent with the community supported Measure Y, which limits mixed-use building height 
to 55 feet.  
Air Quality 
p. 47-49, Cumulative Community Health Risk Impacts: The cumulative health risk analysis 
should include the construction of the multiple other downtown buildings approved and 
proposed office and mixed-use projects, such as Block 21, Block 20, 435 E. 3rd Ave., 445 S. B 
Street, and 616 S. B Street. 
The City has approved seven projects that are in or nearing construction downtown with nine 
more under review. This is unprecedented development occurring in a very small area 
downtown. The cumulative impacts must be thoroughly addressed for air quality, traffic, and 
noise. Only when there is a complete picture of what is construction is occurring downtown in 
the next few years can we really understand the cumulative impacts. Please conduct this 
analysis.  
AIR QUALITY, bullet 1: All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, 
and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day. 
This measure is specified by the BAAQMD but may not be appropriate in this case. The 
measure is general and should be tied to the moisture conditions and wind speeds at the site. It 
may not be necessary to water two times per day if there has been a recent rain event. Please 
revise to be more instructive (e.g., water if the soil is dry and there is a visible dust plume). 
Cultural Resources 
p. 61, para. 1, last sentence: Cultural resources include resources listed in, or determined to be 
eligible for listing in, the National Register 
1211 of 1252

--- page 1212 ---
Planning Commission 
November 17, 2022 
Page 5 
 
Hietter Comments on 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) 
Energy 
p. 70 and 71: It seem odd that Draeger’s uses 2.4 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity per 
year and 2.4 million kilo-Btu of natural gas per year. Are these numbers correct? 
p. 73, para 1: The project will increase electric use by 143 billion net new kilowatt-hours of 
electricity per year. That seems like a significant use of energy. Is it really billion? 
Will there be cooking facilities at the new grocery store or restaurant? Will natural gas stoves be 
allowed? If not, will this building then preclude a restaurant at the ground floor because natural 
gas is not available for cooking? 
The ECORP greenhouse gas analysis state that there would be a net reduction in GHGs, yet says 
that the energy use will increase by143 billion new kilowatt hours. Please reconcile this 
apparent discrepancy. 
Noise 
Condition of Approval NOI-4.13.3-1 should adequately reduce the noise in the proposed units. 
The cumulative noise during construction does not seem to be adequately addressed. Please 
provide assumptions for the cumulative noise analysis.  
Population and Housing 
p. 140, last para.: The estimate of 2.59 persons per household may not be appropriate for the 20 
units that are studio and one bedroom. Similarly, 300 square feet per employee or job is high for 
technology jobs and therefore understate the number of people, traffic trips, and necessary 
parking.  
Public Services 
p. 143, City of San Mateo Parkland Dedication/Fees: Please provide the appropriate information 
from the cited Chapter 26.64. In Section 13.05.070 of the Municipal Code.  
The City is once again “kicking the can down the road” by allowing the developer to pay a park 
impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) or a fee in lieu of dedication of lands for park and 
recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). This practice is now amounting to 
illegal deferred mitigation because the city is deficient in park and open space and has allowed 
multiple downtown buildings to pay the in-lieu fee.  
What is the city’s plan for increasing the park land to meet the city goal? 
Traffic 
Thank you for including LOS as a non-CEQA topic.  
General Plan Policy C 2.1 says: 
1212 of 1252

--- page 1213 ---
Planning Commission 
November 17, 2022 
Page 6 
 
Hietter Comments on 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) 
Maintain a Level of Service no worse than mid LOS D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as 
the acceptable Level of Service for all intersections within the City. 
p. 158:  
“New developments within the boundaries of the Downtown Specific Planning Area are 
recommended to prepare a TDM plan that encourages a 25 percent trip reduction below 
project trip generation numbers for the site proposed for development. Additionally, 
proposed developments in the Downtown Area would be recommended to participate in the 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) for the Downtown Area if established in the 
future, as well as submitting a trip reduction and parking management plan, and preparing an 
annual monitoring plan.” 
 
This discussion of the Traffic Demand Management Plan seems to be all hypothetical. This Plan 
should be included in the environmental document to understand the actual impacts of the 
project.  
Did the General Plan and Downtown IS/MND actually consider nine projects under 
construction at once? 
The Traffic section and the Transportation Impact Analysis do not provide the assumptions 
used for considering the traffic impacts. How many additional downtown projects were 
considered for the different scenarios. It is hard to believe that will an additional 5,000+ people 
downtown (assuming all projects are built and not including all new residents), the traffic 
analysis truly represents the cumulative scenario (see attached spreadsheet for downtown 
development, based on the city’s What’s Happening in Development webpage.  
Please provide the assumptions for the number of people and the number of cars the new 
projects will generate, and then revise the traffic and parking analyses. 
Mandatory Findings of Significance 
2. Cumulative Impacts 
The cumulative impacts analyses are not adequate because they do not include the proposed 
and approved projects that could occur at the same time as the proposed Draeger’s project. 
Please provide an analysis of the projects likely to occur at the same time, the cumulative 
impacts related to air quality, traffic, public services, noise, and other appropriate sections.  
Did the General Plan EIR and the Downtown Specific Plan consider the simultaneous 
construction of nine or more downtown projects? The impact is not the same as the approved 
project.  
 
1213 of 1252

--- page 1214 ---
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO DEVELOPMENT
Hietter 11.17.22 
Picture Borders
Full 
Block?
Developer
Retail
Office
Office Peo
Stories
Site (sq ft)
Style
Built
Total
sq ft
BMR
CommercialResidential
1 405 E. 4th Ave.
√
4th Ave. Caltrain, Claremont Partial
Windy Hill
63,000
352
4
80
22,216
        
Modern Glass Brick Box
2 406 E. 3rd Ave.*
3rd Ave. Caltrain, Claremont Partial
Windy Hill
4
Under Construction
3 303 Baldwin‐‐Trag's
√
Baldwin, S. Ellsworth, B St.
Y
Prometheus
19,952
60,664
347
64
4 to 5
286
40,946
        
Modern Glass Box
4 480 E. 4th Kiku Crossing√
4th, 5th, Claremont, RR
Y
MidPen Housi
0
0
225
225
7
50,587
5 400 E. 5th 5th Ave Gara√
5th, RR
N
City
0
0
5
526
164
54,471
6 200 Fremont*
Fremont, 2nd, El Dorado 
Partial
?
0
Mediterranean
8 180 E. 3rd Ave. Aaron B √
3rd, Ellsworth
N
Lane Partners
3,380
19,608
112
3
0
Nod to history
Approved
7 500 E. 3rd Ave. Block 21√
E. 3rd Avenue, S. Delaware Street, E
4th Avenue, and S. Claremont Street
Y
Windy Hill
179,560
1026
111
12
6
402
Modern Glass Box
9 1 Hayward
√
Hayward, El Camino
N
One Hayward
0
5,453
31
18
2
4
22
12,632
        
Modern Glass Box
Under Review
0
10 616 S. B St. TAP
√
B St, 6th, 7th
Partial
Nazareth
6,919
40
48
5
6
34
57
Modern Glass Concrete
11 477 9th/Claremont 
√
S. Claremont, 9th
Partial
Martin Group
28,100
161
120
12
5
48
120
Modern Brick Glass
12 435 E. 3rd Ave.
√
3rd S. Claremont
Partial
Windy Hill
33,529
192
5
1
5
0
0
11,035
Modern Glass Box
13 222 E. 4th Ave. Draeger √
4th, 5th, B St, Ellsworth
Y
Lane Partners
17,660
104,550
597
9000
10
5 75 ft
221
0
49,478 
Moder Brick Glass Box
14 445 S. B St. Talbots Tom√
4th, 5th, B St, RR
Y
Bespoke
156,000
891
60
60 7 and 5
138
0
Modern Glass Box
15 222 Fremont*
Fremont, 3rd, Eldorado
Partial
Wall St. Prop
40
52,514
          
5
25,327
Mediterranean
Pre‐Application
16 500 E. 4th Ave. Block 20√
E. 4th Avenue, S. Claremont Street, E.
5th Avenue, and S. Delaware Street
Y
Windy Hill
0
142,046
812
86
9
6
226
43
50,530
        
Contemporary traditional (arches, trim, eaves)
17 31‐57 S. B St. Donut Del√
B St., 1st Ave.
Y
Harvest
7,185
29,662
169
0
0
4
0
16,117
        
Modern Glass Concrete
18 500 S. El Camino Real
√
El Camino at 5th
N
Westlake
0
27,241
156
0
0
3
Totals
48,177 
      
856,332 
        
4,885 
        
777 
       
336 
       
1,983 
          
384 
             
2,367 
          
total
Borders
Full 
Block
Developer
Retail
Office
People
Housing
sq ft  Units
Stories
Parking
Site (sq ft)
Style
BMR
CommercialResidential
*Parking shown under 
commercial if not 
specified
**IS/MND says 111 employees
***https://news.theregistrysf.com/commercial‐office‐building‐totaling‐nearly‐41800‐sqft‐planned‐for‐downtown‐san‐mateo‐%EF%BF%BC/
According to the California Department of
Finance, the City of San Mateo had approximately 42,034 residential dwelling units as of January 1,
2021, the most recent data available.1
Parking*
Housing Units
1
1214 of 1252

--- page 1215 ---
From: Francie 
  
Sent: Thursday, November 17, 2022 8:44 PM 
To: Wendy Lao <wlao@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments re: Nov 17 Planning Commission Public Hearing, Draegers 
 
Ms Lao -  
 
I was unable to make a comment at tonight’s meeting re Draeger’s. Please note my comment about the 
loading zone being planned for B Street.  I believe this will have a negative impact to traffic flow 
especially considering the project taking shape across the street at Talbot’s site.  
 
I also hope that the city will take a broad look at the amount of office space that is being planned. 
 
Thank you, 
Francie Souza 
Central San Mateo resident  
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
1215 of 1252

--- page 1216 ---
From: l watanuki 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 20, 2022 8:14 PM 
To: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
; Michael Weinhauer 
; Laurie Hietter 
; Michael Nash 
 
Subject: Questions at Planning Commission for the Draeger's Project.  
 
Hello Ms. Sandhir, 
 
I asked 2 questions at the Planning Commission meeting for Draegers and would like to get a response 
before this goes to the City Council on Thursday, December 1, 2022.  As stated by Laurie Hietter in her 
comments on the Draeger’s Market, there is inadequate cumulative impact analysis and underestimates 
the impacts related to air quality, noise, traffic, and parking.  
 
1.           We requested mitigation for 5th Avenue between Delaware and S Amphlett, a narrow local 
street with a class III bike route, and a new bike boulevard for the safety of residents and bicyclists.  5th 
Avenue is not an Arterial between Delaware and Amphlett as described on page 351.  5th Avenue is not 
designed to serve shorter through traffic needs for commercial traffic, truck traffic, or a construction 
route.  On page 1161, 5th Avenue is classified as a local street and local streets qualify for traffic 
calming.  We need physical devices for traffic calming on 5th Avenue between Delaware to Amphlett to 
reduce the cut-through traffic and this needs to be included in the Conditions of Approvals.   
 
      Addendum to the EIR:    
 
Page 351 of 1204 
5. The report states 5th Avenue is an east-west, two to three-lane arterial roadway extending 
from Virginia Avenue on the west and transitioning into Amphlett Boulevard to the east.  Arterial 
roads link residential and commercial districts and serve shorter through traffic needs.  In the 
vicinity of the project site, 5th Avenue has two lanes. The road is directly adjacent to the project 
site and is proposed to provide direct access.   
 
Page 1161 of 1204  
6. This chart shows that 5th Avenue is a local street from Delaware to S Amphlett and mentions 
a Class III Bike Route in the report but leaves out it will be a bike boulevard from Delaware to S 
Amphlett.   It should not be used as a cut-through route for commercial traffic, truck traffic, or 
used as a construction route for trucks.  This has been a problem with the new Kiku Crossing 
construction.  
 
 
2.           We need a better understanding of what percent of traffic and trucks will be coming from 101 
and what percent of traffic and trucks will come from El Camino Real.  Grocery stores require many 
deliveries by large trucks through a commercial area and wider streets when they make their turns.  
 
Thanks.  
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
1216 of 1252

--- page 1217 ---
From: William Williams 
  
Sent: Monday, November 21, 2022 3:03 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draegers 4th Avenue Proposal 
 
Why should residents bother to comment? 
We are constantly told we need new housing due to the jobs/housing imbalance. This 
proposal provides 10 housing units while adding 400-500 jobs and bringing 200 cars to 
downtown. Such hypocrisy. 
 
x Bill Williams, San Mateo 
 
Sent from Outlook 
 
 
1217 of 1252

--- page 1218 ---
From: Samantha Weigel  
Sent: Thursday, November 17, 2022 5:22 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Martin McTaggart 
<mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment re Tonight's Planning Commission Meeting 
 
Hi all, 
 
Normally I tell people not to submit formal comments via social media, but sharing this on the resident’s behalf.  
This was a comment in response to the Nextdoor post about how to access tonight’s meeting  
 
 
 
Samantha Weigel 
Communications Manager 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
O: 650-522-7005 C: 650-387-4747 
sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
1218 of 1252

--- page 1219 ---
November 17, 2022
Planning Commission comments for Draeger’s - 222 East 4th Avenue PA- 2021-071
Design Issues:

Larry Cannon the City’s Design Consultant gave some excellent recommendations and they
should be followed.

1. Improve the office and residential entries of the building, the 4th Ave facade is not
friendly to other small businesses, the 5th Avenue facade is not friendly to the multi-family
building across the street, the corner of building at 4th/B can be improved, the facades are
flat on each side, and the building needs more depth and articulation like the current
building.

2. The windows on upper levels can be recessed, the awnings on the drawings were
missing, and the residential portion needs more design work. There is no private open space
for the residents on the upper level.

3. It needs more elements of architectural scale on 2 floors of the building base.
Addendum to EIR:

Traffic
4. What percent of the trips will be coming from 101 and from El Camino Real on this
project?

Page 351 of 1204

5. The report states 5th Avenue is an east-west, two to three-lane arterial roadway
extending from Virginia Avenue on the west and transitioning into Amphlett Boulevard to the
east. Arterial roads link residential and commercial districts and serve shorter through traffic
needs. In the vicinity of the project site, 5th Avenue has two lanes. The road is directly
adjacent to the project site and is proposed to provide direct access. This is a very broad
statement and could present a safety issue for 5th Avenue residents from Delaware to
Amphlett.

Page 1161 of 1204

6. This small chart shows that 5th Avenue is a local street from Delaware to S Amphlett
and mentions a Class III Bike Route in the report but leaves out it will be a bike boulevard
from Delaware to S Amphlett. It should not be used as a cut-through route for commercial
traffic, truck traffic, or used as a construction route for trucks. This has been a problem with
the new Kiku Crossing construction.

1219 of 1252


--- page 1220 ---
7. There are many mixed feelings about this new project. A 105,000 sf office project with
only 10 residential units with an unidentified grocery store does not help address the housing
imbalance or the need for a full-service grocery store in walking distance. Draeger’s is a very
big draw for Downtown San Mateo, and it serves as an anchor for our Downtown.

8. Thursday is not a regular Planning Commission day, and too many large projects are
being scheduled before the end of the year. We need more time to review the documents
and this Draegers project should be continued and not rushed through.

Laurie Watanuki

1220 of 1252


--- page 1221 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
1221 of 1252

--- page 1222 ---
From:
diana pettit
To:
Clerk
Subject:
PA-2021-071 222 E. 4th Avenue(Draegers Market)-New Five Story Retail/Residental Mixed-Use Building
Date:
Wednesday, November 30, 2022 5:44:32 PM
The original Grocery Store building was erected for the purpose to celebrate owners' longevity
of the grocery business in San Mateo since 1927, Frank and Mary Draeger and Family
proprietors. It's address is 222 E. 4th Avenue, downtown San Mateo.
I worked in this grocery store from 2002 to 2009. In 2008, I bought my condo at Gateway
Commons at 221 S. Fremont St in San Mateo. I am now retired from the grocery industry for
11 years.  Many of the grocery clerks working at Dreagers' today have their retirements vested
with United Commerical Food Works, Local 5.
As per this PA-2021-071, the building permit to be finalized and approved tonight, the hard
working Employees at  the Draegers' Supermarket would be out of work for 2+ years. These
individuals whom many reside in the City of San Mateo would have to find other jobs.
Even though, there is a letter of intent to rebuild the building into another grocery store, will it
be another unionized UFCW Local 5 shop?
Please remember that we lost Trags Grocery Store almost 2 years ago to another development
on Baldwin and B streets. This building, almost completed will have Retail along the
sidewalks and residental complexes. It is located across the interesction from the  Cal Train
Station on "B" Street.
PA-2021-017, 222 E. 4th Avenue will be a building with a grocery store, office space, and
residental complexes.
The front of the store will be basically of a glass exterior, especially where the office complex
2nd level will be located.
At the property on 3rd Avenues and 4th Street,between S. Claremont and Railroad Avenues
the property recently build and Occupied has an Office Complex on the second floor with
residental on the top floors. This is known as the Windy Hill Building.
The Office Complex at night, has  lighting "Glearing" through the glass being visible for 3
blocks away.  Recently, at a Planning meeting to build "Block 21", residents complained about
the "glaring" light and the developer had tenants of Office complex place drapes halfway over
the glass windows. The drapes are not hung correctly.
The other half of this Office floor Complex has different light fixtures but still glares at night.
In fact, when the new residents of Kiku Crossing are living in their new apartments they will
be effected by this lighting.
Now, we are tonight discussing the rebuilding of a new building at 222 East 4th Avenue with
the Office Complex located on the middle floor of the building. Is this Office building be
constantly "glaring" at night from the light fixtures?
Please be clear about the contractors' specifics about the buildings glass facade and the
"glaring" to the buildings around.
1222 of 1252

--- page 1223 ---
Thank You.
Diana Pettit
1223 of 1252

--- page 1224 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Tuesday, November 29, 2022 7:55 PM
To: Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Draeger's Project
Mayor and Council Members:
It was my intent to deliver my comments to the Planning Commission on November 17, however
given the 1276-page package was only available 72 hours prior to the meeting and the City website
was down on the 17th, I was unable to review the package. Following are my comments:
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
The project applicant states the project is providing “affordable workforce” housing, which is a broad
definition, however detail of rental prices was lacking for the ten low-income (80%AMI) units. Based
on San Mateo County AMI table below the 2022 Maximum Affordable Rent Payments and Incomes
Limits for this project are:
(2) Studio      460sf
 $2,610/mo        
 $104,400 (1-person)
(6) 1-bdrm    590sf
 $2,797/mo
 $111,850 (1.5-person)
(2) 1-bdrm    630sf
 $2,797/mo
 $111,850 (1.5-person)
Based on the above rent payments the project will generate approximately $330,000 of income
annually for the developer (unless the developer forgoes the proceeds) whereas a revenue stream to
an affordable housing entity can be reinvested in creating more housing opportunities.
The project applicant proposes two more units than the eight required by the commercial linkage fee
however, this proposed unit mix also maximizes the rental income. A different mix of eight units
shown below generates approximately $280,000 of annual income:
(6) 1-bdrm    590sf
 $2,797/mo
 $111,850 (1.5-person)
(2) 2-bdrm   1000sf
 $3,356/mo
 $134,200 (3-person)
1224 of 1252

--- page 1225 ---
The project applicant claims that the cost of providing ten housing units is $7 million. The total
square footage of the ten units is 5,960 resulting in a cost of nearly $1,200/sf. Interesting.
 
 
TRAFFIC
The project claims that there will be a reduction in traffic trips with the addition of 104,554sf of
office space and ten residential units to full-service grocery store. Draeger’s is currently about
60,000sf, the proposed grocery store is about 17,000sf; but does that equate to a 70% reduction in
traffic trips? Common sense says a reduced grocery store footprint will not result in a meaningful
reduction of traffic trips, especially since this will be the only full-service grocery store downtown.
The traffic generated by Trader Joe’s, roughly 10,000sf, is a better representation. Logically, the
addition of the office space and residential units and to a full- service grocery store will increase
traffic trips.
 
Under the assumption traffic trips will decrease, the downstream intersections analyses would show
no improvements are needed. However, if more traffic trips are generated by this project and
intersection improvements are needed, the City will be footing the bill.
 
OFF-STREET LOADING ZONE
The project applicant maintains they should not have to comply with the Zoning Code that requires
off-street loading in part because they “do not believe that this standard has been imposed on any
other recent projects in the City, and it is clear that imposing this requirement on this project would
physically preclude the project as proposed”. Has there been other recent commercial developments
in the CBD that have not required off-street loading zones? It appears that the offices of Snowflake
along Delaware have off-street loading zones.
Accepting this provision could end up setting a costly precedent and leaving the City vulnerable to
continuously relinquishing valuable public real estate. The applicant designed the project contrary to
zoning codes that are put in place to protect the safety and health of the public. Appears more like
the taking of public property for private purposes.
 
GENERAL
There appears to be a real imbalance of benefits, to the detriment of the City, when applying the
density bonus law to this predominantly commercial project. The residential component is less than
5% of the project yet the concessions and waivers yield substantial developer benefits but do not
result in additional housing units above that required by the commercial linkage fee. As stated above
the developer is proposing ten smaller units rather than eight of a different mix. Although the
1225 of 1252

--- page 1226 ---
Government Code states, “When an applicant seeks a density bonus for a housing development”
here the developer is realizing benefits for a commercial project.
 
Sincerely,
Lisa Maley
 
 
1226 of 1252

--- page 1227 ---
From: l watanuki 
 
Sent: Thursday, December 1, 2022 1:01 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc:
 Michael Weinhauer 
; Maurine Killough
; Benjamin Portusach 
Subject: Redevelopment at Draeger's - PA21-071 / 222 E. 4th Avenue
December 1, 2022
Dear Members of the City Council,
These are comments for the Draeger’s project this evening. 
SAFETY
1.
We need strong traffic calming measures for 5th Avenue a 2 lane narrow local street, class III Bike
Route, and Bike Boulevard to reduce the commercial cut-through traffic.  The current signage and street
markings are inadequate and we have large 16 wheel trucks and the construction trucks cutting through.
We are not designed for commercial traffic, truck traffic, or as a construction route.  We need safer streets
for our Seniors, children, and bicyclists.  There are 19 new projects in the Downtown and 2 have been
completed.  Many future projects will be developed concurrently and the list is included at the bottom.
Traffic calming measures for 5th Avenue needs to be included in the Conditions of Approvals for Draegers
Market for protections from the construction impacts from all surrounding projects.*
2.
Truck traffic route - we need the commercial traffic to take 101 to 92 to ECR the state highways to
4th Avenue and B Street to Draegers and back out via 9th Avenue (Truck Route in Downtown) to ECR
through State Highways - ECR, 92 and 101 and not residential streets.
*Draegers’ Traffic Impact Analysis  - Local Transportation Analysis Page 12 - Class III (Bike
Route/Bicycle Boulevard) – Bike route provide signage and permanent markings on low-stress roadways to
increase driver awareness of people biking. No exclusive right of way is provided. Bicycle boulevards
prioritize bicycle through-travel and use traffic calming to slow vehicle traffic and maintain low motor
vehicle volumes. These routes are often applied on quiet streets and through residential neighborhoods
DESIGN
1227 of 1252

--- page 1228 ---
3.         This project will use the new contemporary Mass Timber materials in the structure with large glass
windows and we want to insure the interior illumination of 3 stories of office at night will not impact the
residents at the Gramercy, Stratford, Stradbally, and BeSpoke. The Mass Timber was not covered in the
EIR. 
 
4.         Replace the clear glass guard railings with solid material on the 2nd and 4th levels. This was
recommended by Margaret Williams Planning Chair.  Otherwise, there will be too much glass in this
structure and we want the building to blend in better with the historic downtown with more traditional
elements versus more contemporary box on box with angular lines. 
 
TOO MUCH OFFICE SPACE 
 
5.         We will have 13 new large office projects and not enough workforce housing in the Downtown.  We
will have empty office buildings at night, and the Downtown needs more vitality and pedestrian traffic in
the evenings.
 
INADEQUATE CUMULATIVE IMPACT ANALYSIS
 
6.         We need to know the cumulative construction impacts between Draegers and these other projects
below.  We do not know the list of projects used in these various reports by the different consultants.  These
are the Downtown Projects by completion, under construction, approved, under review, and in pre-app. 
There are many under construction now and more under review.  Many projects will be built concurrently. 
This would add to the cumulative impacts of air quality, noise, traffic, parking, and vibrations.  Emergency
access may be a concern.  All the projects on 3rd, 4th, 5th could cause delays along with the grade crossing
back-ups.  The analysis of construction traffic was not conducted, so we don’t know if it would cause a
significant impact.  The reports use - 1000 per square ft to count employees which is high.  Tech uses 150-
200 employees sf of office space per person.  The number of employees may be undercounted in the
cumulative impact analysis.  Therefore the impacts may be underestimated in the CEQA Addendum. 
 
 
Laurie Watanuki
 
***************************
 
List of Downtown San Mateo Development Projects
 
Completed:
1.         Windy Hill 405 E 4th
2.         Windy Hill 406 E 3rd. 
 
Under Construction:
3.         Kiku Crossing - 480 4th Ave
4.         Kiku Crossing Garage - 400 E 5th Ave
5.         Arron Bros - 180 East 3rd Ave
6.         Trag’s - 303 Baldwin
7.         200 S. Fremont - residential
 
Approved:
8.         Windy Hill Block 21- 500 E 4th 
9.         1 Hayward - residential
 
Under Review:  
1228 of 1252

--- page 1229 ---
10.       Windy Hill 435 East 3rd Ave    
11.       TAP - 616 S. B St
11.       477 - 9th Ave
13.       Windy Hill 435 - 3rd Ave
14.       Draegers - 222 E 4th
15.       Tomatina & Talbots - 445 S St
16.       222 Fremont - residential
 
Pre-App:
17.       Windy Hill Block 20 - 500 E 4th Ave
18.       Donut Delite - 31-57 S  B St.
19.       500 S El Camino Real 
 
1229 of 1252

--- page 1230 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Cameron Palmer
Email
Zip Code
California, 94402
1230 of 1252

--- page 1231 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
CHRIS GIOTINIS
Email
Zip Code
California, 94402-2417
1231 of 1252

--- page 1232 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Dorothy Giotinis
Email
Zip Code
94401
1232 of 1252

--- page 1233 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Dan Matteucci
Email
Zip Code
California, 94402
1233 of 1252

--- page 1234 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Josh Rowell
Email
Zip Code
California, 94070
1234 of 1252

--- page 1235 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Erica Wood
Email
Zip Code
94402
1235 of 1252

--- page 1236 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
John Carnes
Email
Zip Code
California, 94401
1236 of 1252

--- page 1237 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Jon Mackey
Email
Zip Code
94403
1237 of 1252

--- page 1238 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Rob Conlon
Email
Zip Code
California, 94025
1238 of 1252

--- page 1239 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
John Kraft
Email
Zip Code
94061
1239 of 1252

--- page 1240 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Nick Lazzarini
Email
Zip Code
95128
1240 of 1252

--- page 1241 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Steve Sirianni
Email
Zip Code
California, 94404
1241 of 1252

--- page 1242 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Roy Nickolai
Email
Zip Code
94401
1242 of 1252

--- page 1243 ---
Thursday, December 1, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Graham Woodall
Email
Zip Code
California, 94025
1243 of 1252

--- page 1244 ---
Tuesday, November 8, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Lance Miller
Email
Zip Code
94402
1244 of 1252

--- page 1245 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Kevin Phillips
Email
Zip Code
94401
1245 of 1252

--- page 1246 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Todd Frye
Email
Zip Code
California, 94025
1246 of 1252

--- page 1247 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Adam Lasoff
Email
Zip Code
California, 94925
1247 of 1252

--- page 1248 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
Ben Stern
Email
Zip Code
94024
1248 of 1252

--- page 1249 ---
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Send a personal letter of support for B Street South
To whom it may concern,
I am writing to urge you to do everything in your power to ensure B Street South is approved.
The B Street South project will provide much needed mixed-use housing in close proximity to transit,
including 100% affordable housing units. 
The project will add convenient amenities to downtown, including a full service grocery. The community
has voiced their excitement about having a grocery store in the area and we are committed to providing
this benefit to the community. 
The project utilizes an intricate palate of articulated brick tying its architecture to that of the historic
downtown area.  The project also adds a public plaza and wide sidewalks, making the site pedestrian
friendly. 
This is an opportunity to improve the neighborhood and address the area’s need for housing and we
cannot afford to reject it. Please approve B Street South.
Name
WILLIAM CONNORS
Email
Zip Code
California, 94025
1249 of 1252

--- page 1250 ---
This Message Is From an External Sender
This message came from outside your organization.
From: Stone, Jonathan 
 
Sent: Thursday, December 1, 2022 3:26 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Marcus Gilmour 
; Wendy Lao <wlao@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira
Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: [EXT] Draegers Site / B Street South
Dear City Council Members,
Please find the below letter/E-mail of support for the B Street South (Draeger’s) project. 
Thanks,
Jonathan Stone | Senior Director of Development
PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE GROUP, INC. | Est. 1965 | Certified B Corporation™
1900 South Norfolk Street | Suite 150, San Mateo, CA 94403
p: 650.931.3448 | prometheusreg.com| 
From: Reisman, Richard 
 
Sent: Thursday, December 1, 2022 2:27 PM
To: Stone, Jonathan 
Subject: RE: [EXT] Draegers Site / B Street South
Jonathan, I wish you luck tonight that the City of San Mateo will approve your project on the “Draegar’s” site. Please forward this email to the City, noting these particular reasons that I support the project, both as a land-for-development
ZjQcmQRYFpfptBannerStart
1250 of 1252

--- page 1251 ---
ZjQcmQRYFpfptBannerEnd
Jonathan,
 
I wish you luck tonight that the City of San Mateo will approve your project on the
“Draeger’s” site.  Please forward this email to the City, noting these particular
reasons that I support the project, both as a land-for-development broker and as a
San Mateo resident.
 
It is noteworthy that amongst your multiple projects in San Mateo you have
done so many things to work with the citizens and bring fresh diversity to
town.  This certainly includes your response to the community to change this
project to include housing.
 
The existing store has never done very well and yet Draegar’s is great, high-
quality downtown amenity.  Perpetuating them forward in the same location in
a smaller (more feasibly sized) store is fantastic for San Mateo.  And they will
have some new customers right there upstairs.
 
The building is nicely designed and like your project on the old Trag’s site, the
site abuts multiple streets, greatly improving the separation of entrances for
the different components within the project.  It is fortunate when different uses
do not have to share the street exposure, as it improves the quality of each and
improves functionality such as loading and unloading.
 
Good luck, please let me know how it comes out.
 
Richard
 
Richard C Reisman
Director National Land & Redevelopment Division
First Vice President Investments
2626 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, CA 94304
O: 
M: 
E: 
Home Office: 
License: CA: 01916861 NYSE: MMI
Follow us on:  
 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE and DISCLAIMER: This email message is intended only for the person or entity to
which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged material. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message. If you are the intended recipient but do not wish to receive
communications through this medium, please so advise the sender immediately. Nothing in this communication
should be interpreted as a digital or electronic signature that can be used to authenticate a contract or other legal
document. The recipients are advised that the sender and Marcus & Millichap are not qualified to provide, and
have not been contracted to provide, legal, financial, or tax advice, and that any such advice regarding any
investment by the recipients must be obtained from the recipients’ attorney, accountant, or tax professional.
 
1251 of 1252

--- page 1252 ---
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
 
This message, including attachments, is confidential and/or privileged and is intended only for
the recipient(s) named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you may not review, copy,
disclose, or distribute the message or the information contained in it. If you have received the
message in error, please notify the sender and immediately delete the message.
 
1252 of 1252