source: packet.pdf
sha256: 82184e7fecbaa713877e63a8e9b061d453ef74daa5ad008cca2f9baa37519aea
pages: 218
ocr_pages: 5
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
October 5, 2020
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 5, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 842 5183 5163
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
“Domestic Violence Action Month” – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular meetings of September 21, 2020.
3.
Regulations on the Sale of Electronic Cigarettes, Flavored Tobacco and the Sale of Tobacco Products in
Pharmacies – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products, and to prohibit the sale of
tobacco products in pharmacies.
4.
Building Electrification Reach Codes – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to require new residential buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric and
encourage multifamily residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units be all-electric.
1 of 218

--- page 2 ---
5.
High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Phase 3 Engineering Services – Agreement
Approve a professional services agreement with WRECO for engineering services in an amount not to exceed
$195,741; establish a contingency reserve of $23,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented and approve amendments within the contingency amount.
6.
On-Call Private Development Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc., an engineering firm, for on-call
specialized subdivision map review and processing services in the amount of $90,000, for a new agreement total
of $180,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented.
7.
City Owned Commercial Properties – COVID-19 Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreements
Approve COVID-19 Rent Waivers and Forbearance Agreements for A+Mail Boxes & More, Beard Papa’s, Cold
Stone Creamery, Fletch’s, Red Giant Coffee, Next Level Sports, and Century Theaters.
8.
Park Rehabilitation and Improvement Per Capita Grant – Applications
Adopt a Resolution to approve an application for Per Capita Grant Funds for the purpose of park rehabilitation
improvements and authorize Director of Parks and Recreation to apply on behalf of the City.
9.
Winter 2020-2021 Tree Planting Services – Agreement
Award an agreement to Greener Environments, LLC for Citywide Tree Planting in the amount of $130,800 and
authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and
to approve change orders up to 10% of the agreement amount.
10.
Classification Updates – Community Development Department
Adopt a Resolution to approve the reclassification of the Business Systems Analyst II to a Senior Business Systems
Analyst and revisions to the job specification for the classification of Senior Business Systems Analyst.
11.
General Plan Housing Element Preparation – Collaboration Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for collaboration on preparation of the Housing Element of
the General Plan in the amount of $12,500 and authorize Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager to
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
12.
“Cut the Commute” Pledge
Authorize the City Manager to sign the "Cut the Commute" pledge being sponsored by Commute.org.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
13.
COVID-19 Update #17
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
2 of 218

--- page 3 ---
NEW BUSINESS
14.
League of California Cities – City Position on Resolution No. 1
Provide direction to voting delegate City Council Member Rick Bonilla to vote either to support or oppose the
League of California Cities’ proposed resolution at the annual General Assembly with regard to urging Congress to
amend section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 to require social media companies to remove
materials which promote criminal activities.
15.
Consideration of Sponsorship of San Mateo-Foster City School District Education Foundation's Virtual Gala
Consider adopting a Resolution to appropriate an amount determined by Council from the General Fund's
Unassigned Fund Balance for the purpose of making a contribution to the San Mateo-Foster City Education
Foundation's Virtual Gala.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, , press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 218

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3682
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular meetings of September 21, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Special Meeting Minutes 9/21/20
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 9/21/20
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 218

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 09/21/2020
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, September 21, 2020
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee
STUDY SESSION 
1.
City Council Strategic Plan – Mid-Cycle Updates
Denise Garcia, Management Fellow City Manager’s Office, provided an update on Fiscal Year’s 2019-20 and 2020-
21 Strategic Plan. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers. 
Council expressed an understanding of the need to shift priorities and appreciation for staff for being nimble and 
responsive to the needs of the community during this pandemic. Direction was given to bring back a revised 
strategic plan for adoption.
2.
Master Plan Consolidation – Preliminary Review
Denise Garcia, Management Fellow City Manager’s Office, presented the Master Plan Consolidated preliminary 
review noting there are 15 master plans in all, one for the Library, six for Parks & Recreation and eight for the 
Public Works Department. For this study session, only the Library and Parks & Recreation master plans will be 
reviewed, and the Public Works plans will be reviewed at a future date. 
Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Vanessa S. urged reopening parks and recreation facilities. 
Council provided comments noting that these are difficult decisions; the importance of safety being addressed as 
a priority including seismic upgrades; the balance required to see potential and think big while being realistic; 
factoring in community need; balance and weigh short- and long-term needs; investigate private partnerships 
with regard to financing and public financing via bonds; prioritization needs to accomplish goals in the smartest 
and most expedient way with safety in mind; the master plan needs versus the City’s financial situation; support 
for all projects on the list was noted; and prioritization for playgrounds, safety projects and essential services for 
the community like child care. City Manager Drew Corbett stated the desire to have a longer conversation at Goal 
Setting where staff will bring back a comprehensive discussion of opportunities and/or strategies to possibly fund 
some of the plans. 
ADJOURNMENT - The meeting adjourned at 6:33 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
5 of 218

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/21/20
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, September 21, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Goethals, Council Members: Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
CEREMONIAL
 
1.
“Cut the Commute Pledge” – Commute.org Presentation
2.
“Disasters Don’t Wait. Make Your Plan Today." – National Preparedness Month Proclamation
3.
Constitution Week – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR 
The following items, 4 through 10, and 12 through 15 were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 11 was 
pulled to come forward at a future date. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to 
comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular City Council meeting of September 8, 2020.
5.
Safe Gun Storage – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 10.28 "Safe Gun Storage." 
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2020-15 
6.
Borel Park Improvements – Informal Pre-Application Process Exemption
Adopt a Resolution to exempt the Borel Park improvements site development planning application from the 
informal pre-application process.
6 of 218

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/21/20
Page 2
Enactment:  Resolution No. 99 (2020)
7.
Age Friendly Cities – Application Approval 
Approve submittal of San Mateo’s Age Friendly Cities application to join the American Association of Retired 
Persons Network of Age Friendly States and Communities; and authorize the Mayor to sign the application. 
8.
Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with WRECO Inc. for professional design services in the amount of 
$43,260 for a new agreement total of $339,828; and increase the contingency reserve to $30,000. 
9.
28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to Golden Bay Construction, Inc. for construction of the 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard 
project in the amount of $454,375; establish a contingency reserve of $45,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
10.
City Hall Restrooms Remodel – Change Order No. 1
Adopt a Resolution to approve Change Order No. 1 with Pride Industries to perform abatement services in an 
amount not to exceed $47,165.11 and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 100 (2020)
11.
On-Call Private Development Services – Amendment 
This item was pulled off of the agenda to be considered at a future date.
12.
Office of Traffic Safety – Grant Spending Plan
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program 
grant totaling $85,000; and authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement and expend the funds.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 101 (2020)
13.
Edward Byrne 2020 Justice Assistance Grant Program – Application 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Justice, Bureau 
of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for the 2020 local 
solicitation in the amount of $17,062; and if awarded, authorize execution of all required documents and 
appropriate funds to the Police Grants Budget Program.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 102 (2020)
14.
Radio System Maintenance – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates for maintenance of City radio systems 
for a term of five years at an annual cost of $51,041 and a total cumulative contract cost of $255,205; and 
authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
15.
San Mateo Management Employees Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees 
Association for a term through April 12, 2025. 
7 of 218

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/21/20
Page 3
Enactment:  Resolution No. 103 (2020)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Rich Hedges spoke in support of the need for Measure W.
OLD BUSINESS
16.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services – Amendment
Deputy Public Works Director Azalea Mitch provided a presentation on Package 1 and 2 construction progress to 
date and outlined the plan for Package 3. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Eric Christen, 
Executive Director, Fair Employment in Construction, not in favor of Project Labor Agreement for this project. 
Council Comments – Council expressed appreciation to staff, Sundt, and consultants on getting this project where 
it needs to be today and noted that this is one of the most important things a municipality does for its citizenry. 
Motion to Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. for services to construct 
the third package of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project for a Guaranteed 
Maximum Price of $379,880,747; approve a contingency reserve in the amount of $13,900,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders 
within the contingency amount. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
17.
Solid Waste Update and Rate Notification
Solid Waste & Recycling Coordinator Roxanne Murray provided an update on the solid waste rate proposal for 
this year. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. 
Motion to Approve no rate increase for the solid waste, recycling, and compost collection in rate year 2021 and 
use designated funds within the Rate Stabilization Fund to offset any revenue shortfall. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
18.
Regulations on the Sale of Electronic Cigarettes, Flavored Tobacco and the Sale of Tobacco Products in 
Pharmacies – Ordinance Introduction
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an update on the proposed ordinance regulating e-cigarettes and flavored 
tobacco and highlighted an amendment to the ordinance as proposed. He queried if Council should delay the 
effective date of the ordinance in order to see how SB793 affected it. Council asked questions of staff. Public 
Comment – In support: Bonnie Halpern-Felsher; Blythe Young; Patricia McDaniel; Annie Tegen; Tricia Barr; Mayra 
Amador; Shawneece Stevenson; Adili Skillin; and Diana Petit. With concern: Cheryl Angeles pointed out the state 
is passing something at the first of the year and requested time toallow businesses a few months to pivot to the 
change. Hrant Vartzbedian in support of excluding Hookah. Jaime Rojas Jr – concern to exempt certain products. 
George Jonson exclude Hookah; Jgo asked where are the parents?
Council discussion ensued with additional questions to staff. Council directed an acceptance of the proposed 
amendment language and delay the effective date to January 1, 2021.
8 of 218

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/21/20
Page 4
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance, as amended, to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco 
products, and to prohibit the sale of tobacco products in pharmacies. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
19.
Measure R and Measure Y – Public Education Effort
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an overview of Council’s direction to provide public education on the 
competing Measures R and Y and the proposed FAQs to achieve that goal. Council asked questions of staff. Public 
Comment – Lisa Diaz Nash commented on the need for specific FAQs. Michael Weinhauer stated what was 
proposed is broad and factual and cautioned to keep this at arm’s length. Diana Petit commented. Council agreed 
with the proposal with some word refinement via the communication team. 
20.
Covid-19 Update #16
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on the City’s continuing efforts to address issues related to the 
county health orders in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – 
Diana Petit commended the City for its responses. 
Motion to confirm the need for continuing the declaration of a local health emergency. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
21.
Outdoor Dining in Public Right of Way – Extension
Assistant City Manager Kathy Kleinbaum provided an update on the success and challenges of the outdoor dining 
program through the use of closed streets and parklets. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – 
Cheryl Angeles, Chamber of Commerce, stated they are in total support to extending outside dining to March of 
2021. Also in support: Raayan Mohtashemi; Adam Loraine; Gabe Lucas; Michael Nash: Michael Weinhauer; and 
Adam Simpson. Council discussion ensued. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve the extension of the temporary street closures and use of the public 
right-of-way for outdoor dining through March 1, 2021 and approve the updated outdoor dining guidelines; 
adopt a Resolution for an additional appropriation of $111,500 to the City Manager’s Office 2020-21 operating 
budget; authorize the City Manager to procure water-filled barricades for a cost not to exceed $181,500 from 
D&M traffic services; and provide guidance on longer term outdoor dining installations. Motion Passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
Council recessed from 9:57 to 10:01 pm.
NEW BUSINESS
22.
Building Electrification Reach Codes – Ordinance Introduction
9 of 218

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/21/20
Page 5
Sustainability Analyst, Andrea Chow provided an update on the building electrification reach codes and the 
choice before Council to choose what type of ordinance to introduce between all-electric required for new 
multifamily and electric preferred or all-electric required for new residential and office buildings. Council asked 
questions of staff.
Public Comment – Support for option 2: Justin Huang; Adam Loraine; Diane Bailey, Fossil Free Building for Silicon 
Valley, without blanket exceptions; Dashiell Leeds; Elijah Lurie; Robert Whitehair; Bruce Nagel; Becky Schaaf with 
support for affordable housing exemption. Council asked additional questions of staff. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” to 
require new residential buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved:
Rodriguez, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Council 
Member Bonilla requested that the commute.org pledge be brought back for Council action. Council concurred.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:59 pm following a moment of silence for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg, noting her impact as 
a titan for justice, a role model for change, and the legacy she left to empower women. 
APPROVED BY:
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                           
                                                           
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
 
10 of 218

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3653
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Regulations on the Sale of Electronic Cigarettes, Flavored Tobacco and the Sale of Tobacco Products in Pharmacies – 
Ordinance Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products, and to prohibit the sale of tobacco 
products in pharmacies. 
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: September 21, 2020 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
11 of 218

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Add Sections 7.40.120, 7.40.130 and 7.40.140 to Chapter 7.40 of the San Mateo Municipal Code and amend 
Section 7.41.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code to prohibit the sale of electronic cigarettes and flavored 
tobacco products and to prohibit the sale of tobacco products in pharmacies
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Council has received expert testimony and finds that the use of electronic 
cigarettes by teens and young adults has increased significantly over the last few years and is now the tobacco 
product most often used by teens and young adults; and 
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that the amount of nicotine contained in 
these products far exceeds the amount contained in cigarettes and greatly increases the likelihood that teen and 
young adult users will become addicted to the products; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that the use of these products causes 
damage to the lungs and brains of teens and young adult users; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that flavored tobacco products have 
become prevalent and have the effect of increasing the use of tobacco products by teens and young adults; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that teens and young adults frequently 
purchase tobacco products from brick and mortar retail establishments (including pharmacies) and that age 
restrictions have not prevented the ready access to tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes and 
flavored tobacco; and
WHEREAS, the City Council is mindful of the provisions of state law restricting the sale of flavored 
tobacco products but finds that these restrictions do not sufficiently protect teens and young adults from the 
harmful effects of electronic cigarettes and flavored tobacco products. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.40.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.40 as follows:
7.40.120 Sale of Electronic Cigarettes Prohibited
(a) No person or tobacco retailer shall sell or distribute any Electronic Cigarette.  
(b) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall govern:
(1) “Distribute” or “Distribution” means the transfer by any person other than a common 
carrier, at any point from the place of manufacture or thereafter to a Person who sells the electronic 
cigarette or other electronic smoking device. 
12 of 218

--- page 13 ---
(2) “Electronic Cigarette” has the meaning set forth in Section 30121 of the California Revenue 
and Taxation Code, as may be amended from time to time. 
(3) “Person” means any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private corporation, or 
any other legal entity. 
(4) “Tobacco Retailer” means any person that engages in the retail sale or exchange of tobacco 
products (as defined in subsection (l) of section 7.40.020 of this Code). 
(5) “Sell”, “Sale” or “to Sell” mean any transaction where, for any consideration, ownership is 
transferred from one Person or entity to another including, but not limited to any transfer of title or 
possession for consideration, exchange or barter, in any manner or by any means.
Section 2. Section 7.40.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.40 as follows:
7.40.130 Sale of Flavored Tobacco Prohibited
(a) The sale or offer for sale, by any person or tobacco retailer of any flavored tobacco product is 
prohibited and no person or tobacco retailer shall sell, or offer for sale, any flavored tobacco product. 
(b) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tobacco product is a flavored tobacco product if a 
manufacturer or any of the manufacturer's agents or employees, in the course of their agency or employment, 
has made a statement or claim directed to consumers or to the public that the tobacco product has or produces 
a characterizing flavor including, but not limited to, text, color, and/or images on the product's labeling or 
packaging that are used to explicitly or implicitly communicate that the tobacco product has a characterizing 
flavor. 
(c) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall govern:
(1) ”Characterizing flavor" means a distinguishable taste or aroma or both, other than the taste 
or aroma of tobacco, imparted by a tobacco product or any byproduct produced by the tobacco 
product. Characterizing flavors include, but are not limited to, tastes or aroma relating to any fruit, 
chocolate, vanilla, honey, candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, menthol, mint, wintergreen, herb, 
or spice. A tobacco product shall not be determined to have a characterizing flavor solely because of the 
use of additives or flavorings or the provision of ingredient information. Rather, it is the presence of a 
distinguishable taste or aroma, or both, as described in the first sentence of this definition, that 
constitutes a characterizing flavor. 
(2) “Constituent” means any ingredient, substance, chemical, or compound, other than tobacco, 
water, or reconstituted tobacco sheet that is added by the manufacturer to a tobacco product during 
the processing, manufacture, or packing of the tobacco product. 
(3) “Distinguishable” means perceivable by either the sense of smell or taste. 
(4) “Flavored tobacco product” means any tobacco product that contains a constituent that 
imparts a characterizing flavor. 
13 of 218

--- page 14 ---
(5) “Labeling” means written, printed, pictorial, or graphic matter upon any tobacco product or 
any of its packaging. 
(6) “Packaging” means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind or, if no other container, any 
wrapping (including cellophane) in which a tobacco product is sold, or offered for sale, to a consumer. 
(7) “Tobacco product” is defined as set forth in subsection (l) of Section 7.40.020 of this Code. 
(8) “Tobacco Retailer” means any person that engages in the retail sale or exchange of tobacco 
products.
Section 3. Section 7.40.140 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.40 as follows:
7.40.140 Sale of Tobacco Products in Pharmacies Prohibited
(a) No pharmacy or pharmacy employee or agent shall sell or offer for sale any tobacco product.
(b) No new tobacco retailer permit may be issued to a pharmacy under Chapter 7.41 of this Code. 
(c) No existing tobacco retailer permit issued under Chapter 7.41 of this Code may be renewed by a 
pharmacy. 
(d) For the purposes of this section "pharmacy" means any retail establishment in which the profession 
of pharmacy is practiced by a pharmacist licensed by the State of California in accordance with the Business and 
Professions Code and where prescription pharmaceuticals are offered for sale, regardless of whether the retail 
establishment sells other retail goods in addition to prescription pharmaceuticals. 
Section 4.  Section 7.41.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7.41.060 Enforcement of Applicable Law
If an agent or employee of the tobacco retailer violates any provisions of this chapter or any city, federal, or 
state tobacco-related law, the tobacco retailer shall immediately report the violation to the Police Department 
and the Environmental Health Division.
Section 5. Subsection (a) of Section 7.41.070 “Suspension of Permit” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended as follows
(a) Grounds for Suspension. A tobacco retailer's permit may be suspended, as set forth below in 
subdivision (b), by the Director upon a finding, after notice and opportunity to be heard, that either of the 
following occurred:
(1) After the permit was issued it was determined that the application for the permit is 
incomplete or inaccurate.
(2) The permittee or his or her agent has violated any provision of this chapter or any City, 
federal, or state tobacco-related law.
14 of 218

--- page 15 ---
Section 6. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
section 21065, this action is not a project because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment.
Section 7. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 8. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 9. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on January 1, 2021.
15 of 218

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3654
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Building Electrification Reach Codes – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to require new residential buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric and encourage 
multifamily residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units be all-electric.
BACKGROUND:
Jurisdictions can adopt local amendments that exceed the State’s Energy Code, often referred to as “reach codes”, to 
encourage more sustainable construction. The adoption of reach codes has been an important approach to meeting the 
City’s climate goals, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the built environment and addressing building electrification 
in new construction.
At the July 20, 2020 City Council meeting, City Council directed staff to develop a reach code ordinance that requires new 
multifamily residential buildings be all-electric. The City Council also directed staff to return for further consideration of 
revising the City’s existing Electric Preferred Reach Codes to require single family and duplex homes and buildings with 
office use be all-electric. 
At the September 21, 2020 City Council meeting, staff presented two alternative proposed ordinances to meet Council’s 
direction. The ordinance options were structured so that City Council would need to select one ordinance for introduction 
and adoption. Option #1 required new multifamily residential buildings be all-electric and retained the City’s adopted 
Electric Preferred Reach Codes for single family and duplex homes and office buildings. Option #2 required new residential 
buildings (including single family and duplex homes and multifamily residential buildings) and buildings with office use be 
all-electric. 
City Council selected Option #2 and made a few revisions to the ordinance on the dais that are reflected in the proposed 
ordinance. City Council modified the ordinance to encourage multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units be 
all-electric using the Electric Preferred Reach Code approach. All-electric multifamily buildings that consist of 100% 
affordable units would be required to be built to the Energy Code. Alternatively, mixed-fuel multifamily buildings that 
consist of 100% affordable units would need to exceed the Energy Code using a prescriptive or performance pathway as 
detailed in the proposed ordinance. Additionally, the City Council modified the ordinance to remove the exception for 
Accessory Dwelling Units, thus requiring newly constructed Accessory Dwelling Units be all-electric. The proposed 
ordinance contains both of these revisions.
This approach is proven to be cost-effective and is also analyzed in the Low-rise Residential New Construction Cost-
Effectiveness Study, Mid-rise Residential New Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study, and Non-Residential New 
Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study.
16 of 218

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed local amendments will not have a budgetary impact on the City since the City is required to enforce the 
Energy Code and the local amendments will not be onerous to implement and track.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15308, adoption of reach code ordinances is categorically exempt from CEQA 
as an action by a regulatory agency for the protection of the environment, because the reach codes are intended to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – 9-21-2020 Proposed Ordinance #2 track changes
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
17 of 218

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 23.24, “Energy Code,” of Title 23, “Building and Construction,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code to Require New Residential Buildings and Buildings with Office Use to be All-Electric and to Encourage 
Multifamily Residential Buildings with 100% Affordable Housing to be All-Electric
WHEREAS, the City’s Climate Action Plan recommended that the City review local amendments to the 
California Energy Code to promote increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources; and
WHEREAS,  on August 19, 2019, the City Council adopted the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, with 
local amendments to require solar installation on new nonresidential buildings and encourage building 
electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council identified additional local amendments to further reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in new construction in alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council recommends adopting local amendments to require new residential 
buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric; and
WHEREAS, the City Council also recommends adopting local amendments to encourage multifamily 
buildings that consist of 100% affordable units to be all-electric; and
WHEREAS,  these local amendments would replace the City’s previously adopted reach codes 
encouraging building electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City has completed an analysis and has determined that the requirements of the local 
amendments to the California Energy Code would provide a positive cost benefit to new construction within the 
City of San Mateo; and
WHEREAS,  California Health and Safety Code Section 17958 requires that the City, in order to make 
local amendments, find that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS,  the City’s Section 17958 findings are attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 23.24.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
Subchapter 1, “All Occupancies – General Provisions,” Section 100.1(b), of the 2019 state Energy Code is 
amended to add the following definitions:
Affordable unit means housing that meets either of the following criteria: 
18 of 218

--- page 19 ---
(a) housing that is affordable to very low-income, low-income, or moderate-income households, or 
designated as 100% for senior households. Very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households 
have the meaning set forth in the Health and Safety Code sections 50105, 50079.5, 50093, respectively. Senior 
households means households composed of qualifying residents as defined in Section 51.3 of the Civil Code; or
(b) housing that meets the criteria of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Project or Department of 
Housing and Urban Development programs that assist low-income and moderate-income households. 
All-electric building or all-electric design is a building or building design that uses a permanent supply of 
electricity as the only source of energy for space conditioning (including heating and cooling), water heating 
(including pools and spas), cooking appliances, and clothes drying appliances, and has no natural gas or propane 
plumbing installed at the building.
Mixed-fuel building or mixed-fuel design is a building or building design that uses natural gas or propane as fuel 
for space heating, water heating (including pools and spas), cooking appliances or clothes drying appliances or is 
plumbed for such equipment.
Section 2. Section 23.24.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for Residential Buildings and Buildings with 
Office Use.
(a) Subchapter 2 “All Occupancies—Mandatory Requirements for The Manufacture, Construction And 
Installation Of Systems, Equipment And Building Components” is amended to add a new section 110.13 “All-
Electric Buildings.” Section 110.13 “All-Electric Buildings” shall read as follows:
(b) All newly constructed office buildings and residential buildings shall be designed, constructed, and 
equipped as All-Electric Buildings.
Exception to Section 110.13. Multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units shall be exempt from 
the all-electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of this exception, “affordable unit” is defined in 
Section 100.1(b).
Section 3. Section 23.24.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
23.24.050 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric or Energy Efficiency Standards for High-Rise Multifamily 
Residential Buildings with 100% Affordable Units.
(a) All-electric high-rise multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units are required to meet 
the established energy efficiency standards in Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and 
Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy 
Efficiency,” of the 2019 state Energy Code.
(b) Mixed-fuel high-rise multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units shall comply with 
increased energy efficiency standards. Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel 
Occupancies – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” of the 
19 of 218

--- page 20 ---
2019 state Energy Code is amended to require increased energy efficiency standards in the performance or 
prescriptive compliance approaches as follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy 
Budgets” is amended to include the following performance standards for mixed-fuel high-rise 
multifamily building that consists of 100% affordable units: A newly constructed mixed-fuel high-rise 
multifamily building that consists of 100% affordable units complies with the performance approach if 
the energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design Building under Subsection (b) has a compliance 
margin exceeding the energy budget calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a) of 
at least 5%. 
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Energy Code Section 140.2 “Prescriptive Approach” is amended to 
include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel high-rise multifamily 
buildings that consist of 100% affordable units:
(A) Install fenestration with a solar heat gain coefficient no greater than 0.22.
(B) Design Variable Air Volume (VAV) box minimum airflows to be equal to the zone 
ventilation minimums.
(C) Include economizers and staged fan control in air handlers with a mechanical cooling 
capacity ≥ 33,000 Btu/h
(D) Reduce the total lighting power density (Watts/ft2) by ten percent (10%) from that 
required from Table 140.6-C in the 2019 state Energy Code.
(E) Improve lighting without claiming any Power Adjustment Factor credits:
(i) Control to daylight dimming plus off per 2019 state Energy Code Section 
140.6(a)2H, and 
(ii) Perform Institutional Tuning per 2019 state Energy Code Section 140.6(a)2J.
(F) For all ducted central forced air heating systems and central fan integrated 
ventilation systems the duct distribution system shall be designed to reduce external static 
pressure to meet a maximum fan efficacy equal to 0.25 Watts per cfm according to the 
procedures outlined in the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices RA3.3.
(G) Hot water pipe insulation shall be verified by a HERS inspector, in accordance with 
the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices Section RA3.6.3.
Section 4. Section 23.24.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
20 of 218

--- page 21 ---
23.24.060 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Buildings or Energy Efficiency Standards for Low-Rise 
Residential Buildings with 100% Affordable Units.
(a) All-electric low-rise residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units are required to meet 
the established energy efficiency standards in Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches,” of the 2019 state Energy Code.
(b) Mixed-fuel low-rise residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units shall comply with 
increased energy efficiency standards. Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches,” of the 2019 state Energy Code is amended to require increased energy 
efficiency standards in the performance and prescriptive compliance approaches as follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Section 150.1.b. “Performance standards” is amended to include the 
following performance standard for newly constructed mixed-fuel low-rise residential buildings that 
consist of 100% affordable units: 
The Total Energy Design Rating calculated for the Proposed Design Building shall be at least 0.5 
EDR points less than the Total Energy Design Rating calculated for the Standard Design Building.
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Section 150.1.c. “Prescriptive standards/component packages” is 
amended to include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel low-rise 
residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units:
(A) Slab floor perimeter insulation shall be installed with an R-value equal to or greater 
than R10. The minimum depth of concrete-slab floor perimeter insulation shall be 16 inches or 
the depth of the footing of the building, whichever is less. 
(B) The hot water distribution system shall be designed and installed to meet minimum 
requirements for the basic compact hot water distribution credit according to the procedures 
outlined in the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices RA4.4.6.
(C) Central Fan Integrated Ventilation Systems. Central forced air system fans used to 
provide outside air, shall have an air-handling unit fan efficacy less than or equal to 0.35 
W/CFM. The airflow rate and fan efficacy requirements in this section shall be confirmed 
through field verification and diagnostic testing in accordance with all applicable procedures 
specified in 2019 state Energy Code Reference Residential Appendix RA3.3. Central Fan 
Integrated Ventilation Systems shall be certified to the Energy Commission as Intermittent 
Ventilation Systems as specified in 2019 state Energy Code Reference Residential Appendix 
RA3.7.4.2.  
(D) Energy storage or Solar Thermal. Either of the following shall be installed: 
(i) A battery energy storage system with a capacity equivalent to the PV system 
shall be installed.  The system shall have automatic controls programmed to have the 
21 of 218

--- page 22 ---
ability to charge anytime PV generation is greater than the building load and discharge 
to the electric grid during the highest priced time of use hours of the day , OR 
(ii) A solar water heating system with a minimum solar savings fraction of 0.20. 
Section 5. Section 23.24.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
23.24.070 Infeasibility Exemption.
(a) Exemption. If an applicant believes that circumstances exist that makes it infeasible to meet the 
requirements of this Chapter, the applicant may request an exemption from the Building Official or designee at 
the time of planning application submittal. In applying for an exemption, the burden is on the applicant to show 
infeasibility. The applicant shall indicate the maximum threshold of compliance he or she believes is feasible to 
fully comply with this Chapter. 
(b) Infeasibility. Circumstances that constitute infeasibility include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) There is a lack of commercially available materials and technologies to comply with the 
requirements of this Chapter;
(2) Applying the requirements of this Chapter would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of 
property or otherwise have an unconstitutional application to the property.
(c) Granting of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is infeasible for the 
applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter based on the information provided, the Building Official 
or designee, shall determine the maximum feasible threshold of compliance reasonably achievable for the 
project. The decision of the Building Official or designee shall be provided to the applicant in writing. If an 
exemption is granted, the applicant shall be required to comply with this Chapter in all other respects and shall 
be required to achieve, in accordance with this Chapter, the threshold of compliance determined to be 
achievable by the Building Official or designee.
(d) Denial of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is reasonably possible for 
the applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter, the request shall be denied and the Building Official 
or designee shall so notify the applicant in writing. The project and compliance documentation shall be modified 
to comply with this Chapter prior to further review of any pending planning or building permit application.
(e) Appeals of Exemption Denial. If denied the infeasibility exemption, the applicant may appeal in 
writing to the Community Development Department (CDD) Director. The CDD Director will consider the 
information provided and render a written decision regarding infeasibility based on the factors set forth in this 
Chapter. The decision of the CDD Director shall be final. 
Section 6. Section 23.24.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is hereby added to Chapter 23.24 as follows:
23.24.080 Expiration.
These local code amendments shall sunset when the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, is no longer in effect.
22 of 218

--- page 23 ---
Section 7. The Council adopts the findings supporting the local amendments to the California Energy Code, 2019 
Edition, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. 
Section 8. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, adoption of this Ordinance is categorially exempt from CEQA, because it imposes 
stricter energy efficiency requirements and is a regulatory action authorized by state law and intended to 
protect the environment.
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on September 21, 2020, and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective January 1, 2021.
Exhibit A
FINDINGS SUPPORTING LOCAL AMENDMENTS TO
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE, 2019 EDITION
Section 17958 of the California Health and Safety Code provides that the City may make changes to the 
provisions in the uniform codes that are published in the California Building Standards Code. Sections 17958.5 
and 17958.7 of the Health and Safety Code require that for each proposed local change to those provisions in 
the uniform codes and published in the California Building Standards Code which regulate buildings used for 
human habitation, the City Council must make findings supporting its determination that each such local change 
is reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological, or topographical conditions. 
Local building regulations having the effect of amending the uniform codes, which were adopted by the City 
prior to November 23, 1970, were unaffected by the regulations of Sections 17958, 17958.5 and 17958.7 of the 
Health and Safety Code. Therefore, amendments to the uniform codes which were adopted by the City Council 
prior to November 23, 1970, and have been carried through from year to year without significant change, need 
no required findings. Also, amendments to provisions not regulating buildings used for human habitation, 
including amendments made only for administrative consistency, do not require findings. 
Code: California Energy Code
Section(s) 
Title 
Add 
Deleted 
Amended 
Justification 
(See below 
for keys) 
23 of 218

--- page 24 ---
Subchapter 1, 
Section 100.1
Definitions and Rules of 
Construction
X
A, B
Subchapter 2, 
Section 110.13
All Electric Buildings
X
X
A, B
Subchapter 5, 
Section 140.0
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches
X
A, B 
Subchapter 8, 
Section 150.1
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches for Low-Rise 
Residential Buildings
X
A, B
24 of 218

--- page 25 ---
Key to Justification Supporting Amendments to Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations
1. This amendment is justified on the basis of a local climatic condition. Failure to address and 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could result in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco 
Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101 (Bayshore Freeway), 
particularly the mapped Flood Hazard areas of the City. Energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy 
sources are key components in reducing GHG emissions, and construction of more energy efficient buildings 
with dedicated renewable energy installations can help the City of San Mateo reduce its share of the GHG 
emissions that contribute to climate change. The burning of fossil fuels used in the generation of electric power 
and heating of buildings contributes to climate change, which could result in rises in sea level, including in San 
Francisco Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101.
2. Energy efficiency enhances the public health and welfare by promoting the environmental and 
economic health of the City through the design, construction, maintenance, operation and deconstruction of 
buildings and sites by incorporating green practices into all development. The provisions in this Chapter are 
designed to achieve the following goals: 
a) Increase energy efficiency in buildings; 
b) Increase resource conservation; 
c) Provide durable buildings that are efficient and economical to own and operate; 
d) Promote the health and productivity of residents, workers, and visitors to the city; 
e) Recognize and conserve the energy embodied in existing buildings; and 
f) Reduce disturbance of natural ecosystems. 
25 of 218

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 23.24, “ENERGY CODE,” OF TITLE 23, “BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION,” OF THE SAN 
MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO REQUIRE NEW RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND BUILDINGS WITH OFFICE USE BE 
ALL-ELECTRIC
AMENDING CHAPTER 23.24, “ENERGY CODE,” OF TITLE 23, “BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION,” OF THE SAN 
MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO REQUIRE NEW RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND BUILDINGS WITH OFFICE USE TO BE 
ALL-ELECTRIC AND TO ENCOURAGE MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITH 100% AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING TO BE ALL-ELECTRIC
WHEREAS, the City’s Climate Action Plan recommended that the City review local amendments to the 
California Energy Code to promote increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources; and 
WHEREAS,  on August 19, 2019, the City Council adopted the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, with 
local amendments to require solar installation on new nonresidential buildings and encourage building 
electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council identified additional local amendments to further reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in new construction in alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council recommends adopting local amendments to require new residential 
buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric; and
WHEREAS, the City Council also recommends adopting local amendments to encourage multifamily 
buildings that consist of 100% affordable units to be all-electric; and
WHEREAS,  these local amendments would replace the City’s previously adopted reach codes 
encouraging building electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City has completed an analysis and has determined that the requirements of the local 
amendments to the California Energy Code would provide a positive cost benefit to new construction within the 
City of San Mateo; and
WHEREAS,  California Health and Safety Code Section 17958 requires that the City, in order to make 
local amendments, find that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS,  the City’s Section 17958 findings are attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
26 of 218

--- page 27 ---
Section 1. Chapter 23.34, “Energy Code,” of Title 23 “Buildings and Construction,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is hereby amended to read:
CHAPTER 23.24 
ENERGY CODE
Sections: 
23.24.010 Adoption 
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
23.24.030 Local Amendment Regarding Mandatory Solar Installations 
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for Residential Buildings and Buildings with 
Office Use
23.24.050 Infeasibility Exemption 
23.24.060 Expiration
23.24.010 ADOPTION
(a) The California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, Title 24, Part 6 of the California Code of Regulations, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called “Energy Code,” is adopted as the rules, 
regulations and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended 
for so long as the 2019 Edition of the Building Code is in effect; 
(b) One copy of the Energy Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk. 
23.24.020 LOCAL AMENDMENT TO DEFINITIONS
Subchapter 1, “All Occupancies – General Provisions,” Section 100.1(b), of the 2019 state Energy Code is 
amended to add the following definitions:
Accessory building shall have the meaning set forth in Section 27.04.010 of the City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code.
Accessory dwelling unit shall mean an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete 
independent living facilities for one or more persons and which is approved in conformance with Government 
Code Section 65852.2 and Chapter 27.19 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code.
Affordable housingunit means housing that meets either of the following criteria: 
27 of 218

--- page 28 ---
(a) housing that is affordable to very low-income, low-income, or moderate-income households, or 
designated as 100% for senior households. Very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households 
have the meaning set forth in the Health and Safety Code sections 50105, 50079.5, 50093, respectively. Senior 
households means households composed of qualifying residents as defined in Section 51.3 of the Civil Code; or
(b) housing that meets the criteria of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Project or Department of 
Housing and Urban Development programs that assist low-income and moderate-income households. 
All-electric building or all-electric design is a building or building design that uses a permanent supply of 
electricity as the only source of energy for space conditioning (including heating and cooling), water heating 
(including pools and spas), cooking appliances, and clothes drying appliances, and has no natural gas or propane 
plumbing installed at the building.
Mixed-fuel building or mixed-fuel design is a building or building design that uses natural gas or propane as fuel 
for space heating, water heating (including pools and spas), cooking appliances or clothes drying appliances or is 
plumbed for such equipment.
23.24.030 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING MANDATORY SOLAR INSTALLATIONS 
Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” Section 140.0(b), of the 2019 state Energy 
Code is amended to include:
Solar photovoltaic systems shall be installed as follows:
(a) New residential buildings four stories or more shall provide a minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic 
system.
(b) New non-residential buildings with less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall provide a 
minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
(c) New non-residential buildings greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall 
provide a minimum of a 5-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
Exception: As an alternative to a solar photovoltaic system, all of the building types listed above may provide a 
solar hot water system (solar thermal) with a minimum collector area of 40 square feet.
23.24.040 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND 
BUILDINGS WITH OFFICE USE 
Subchapter 2 “All Occupancies—Mandatory Requirements For The Manufacture, Construction And Installation 
Of Systems, Equipment And Building Components” is amended to add a new section 110.13 “All -Electric 
Buildings.” Section 110.13 “All -Electric Buildings” shall read as follows:
All newly constructed office buildings and residential buildings shall be designed, constructed, and equipped as 
All-Electric Buildings.
28 of 218

--- page 29 ---
Exception to Section 110.13. Low-rise and high-rise multifamilyMultifamily buildings that consist of 100% 
affordable housingunits shall be exempt from the all-electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of 
this exception, “affordable housingunit” is defined in Section 100.1(b).
Exception to Section 110.13. Accessory Buildings and Accessory Dwelling Units shall be exempt from the all-
electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of this exception, “accessory building” and “accessory 
dwelling unit are defined in Section 100.1(b).
23.24.05023.24.050 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC BUILDINGS OR ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
STANDARDS FOR HIGH-RISE MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITH 100% AFFORDABLE UNITS 
(a) All-electric high-rise multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units are required to meet 
the established energy efficiency standards in Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and 
Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy 
Efficiency,” of the 2019 state Energy Code.
(b) Mixed-fuel high-rise multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable units shall comply with 
increased energy efficiency standards. Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel 
Occupancies – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” of the 
2019 state Energy Code is amended to require increased energy efficiency standards in the performance or 
prescriptive compliance approaches as follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy 
Budgets” is amended to include the following performance standards for mixed-fuel high-rise 
multifamily building that consists of 100% affordable units: A newly constructed mixed-fuel high-rise 
multifamily building that consists of 100% affordable units complies with the performance approach if 
the energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design Building under Subsection (b) has a compliance 
margin exceeding the energy budget calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a) of 
at least 5%. 
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Energy Code Section 140.2 “Prescriptive Approach” is amended to 
include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel high-rise multifamily 
buildings that consist of 100% affordable units:
(A) Install fenestration with a solar heat gain coefficient no greater than 0.22.
(B) Design Variable Air Volume (VAV) box minimum airflows to be equal to the zone 
ventilation minimums.
(C) Include economizers and staged fan control in air handlers with a mechanical cooling 
capacity ≥ 33,000 Btu/h
(D) Reduce the total lighting power density (Watts/ft2) by ten percent (10%) from that 
required from Table 140.6-C in the 2019 state Energy Code.
29 of 218

--- page 30 ---
(E) Improve lighting without claiming any Power Adjustment Factor credits:
(i) Control to daylight dimming plus off per 2019 state Energy Code Section 
140.6(a)2H, and 
(ii) Perform Institutional Tuning per 2019 state Energy Code Section 140.6(a)2J.
(F) For all ducted central forced air heating systems and central fan integrated 
ventilation systems the duct distribution system shall be designed to reduce external static 
pressure to meet a maximum fan efficacy equal to 0.25 Watts per cfm according to the 
procedures outlined in the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices RA3.3.
(G) Hot water pipe insulation shall be verified by a HERS inspector, in accordance with 
the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices Section RA3.6.3.
23.24.060 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC BUILDINGS OR ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR 
LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITH 100% AFFORDABLE UNITS
(a) All-electric low-rise residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units are required to meet 
the established energy efficiency standards in Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches,” of the 2019 state Energy Code.
(b) Mixed-fuel low-rise residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units shall comply with 
increased energy efficiency standards. Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches,” of the 2019 state Energy Code is amended to require increased energy 
efficiency standards in the performance and prescriptive compliance approaches as follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Section 150.1.b. “Performance standards” is amended to include the 
following performance standard for newly constructed mixed-fuel low-rise residential buildings that 
consist of 100% affordable units: 
The Total Energy Design Rating calculated for the Proposed Design Building shall be at least 0.5 
EDR points less than the Total Energy Design Rating calculated for the Standard Design Building.
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Section 150.1.c. “Prescriptive standards/component packages” is 
amended to include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel low-rise 
residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable units:
(A) Slab floor perimeter insulation shall be installed with an R-value equal to or greater 
than R10. The minimum depth of concrete-slab floor perimeter insulation shall be 16 inches or 
the depth of the footing of the building, whichever is less. 
(B) The hot water distribution system shall be designed and installed to meet minimum 
requirements for the basic compact hot water distribution credit according to the procedures 
outlined in the 2019 state Energy Code Reference Appendices RA4.4.6.
30 of 218

--- page 31 ---
(C) Central Fan Integrated Ventilation Systems. Central forced air system fans used to 
provide outside air, shall have an air-handling unit fan efficacy less than or equal to 0.35 
W/CFM. The airflow rate and fan efficacy requirements in this section shall be confirmed 
through field verification and diagnostic testing in accordance with all applicable procedures 
specified in 2019 state Energy Code Reference Residential Appendix RA3.3. Central Fan 
Integrated Ventilation Systems shall be certified to the Energy Commission as Intermittent 
Ventilation Systems as specified in 2019 state Energy Code Reference Residential Appendix 
RA3.7.4.2.  
(D) Energy storage or Solar Thermal. Either of the following shall be installed: 
(i) A battery energy storage system with a capacity equivalent to the PV system 
shall be installed.  The system shall have automatic controls programmed to have the 
ability to charge anytime PV generation is greater than the building load and discharge 
to the electric grid during the highest priced time of use hours of the day , OR 
(ii) A solar water heating system with a minimum solar savings fraction of 0.20. 
23.24.050070 INFEASIBILITY EXEMPTION
(a) Exemption. If an applicant believes that circumstances exist that makes it infeasible to meet the 
requirements of this Chapter, the applicant may request an exemption from the Building Official or designee at 
the time of planning application submittal. In applying for an exemption, the burden is on the applicant to show 
infeasibility. The applicant shall indicate the maximum threshold of compliance he or she believes is feasible to 
fully comply with this Chapter. 
(b) Infeasibility. Circumstances that constitute infeasibility include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) There is a lack of commercially available materials and technologies to comply with the 
requirements of this Chapter;
(2) Applying the requirements of this Chapter would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of 
property or otherwise have an unconstitutional application to the property.
(c) Granting of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is infeasible for the 
applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter based on the information provided, the Building Official 
or designee, shall determine the maximum feasible threshold of compliance reasonably achievable for the 
project. The decision of the Building Official or designee shall be provided to the applicant in writing. If an 
exemption is granted, the applicant shall be required to comply with this Chapter in all other respects and shall 
be required to achieve, in accordance with this Chapter, the threshold of compliance determined to be 
achievable by the Building Official or designee.
(d) Denial of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is reasonably possible for 
the applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter, the request shall be denied and the Building Official 
or designee shall so notify the applicant in writing. The project and compliance documentation shall be modified 
to comply with this Chapter prior to further review of any pending planning or building permit application.
31 of 218

--- page 32 ---
(e) Appeals of Exemption Denial. If denied the infeasibility exemption, the applicant may appeal in 
writing to the Community Development Department (CDD) Director. The CDD Director will consider the 
information provided and render a written decision regarding infeasibility based on the factors set forth in this 
Chapter. The decision of the CDD Director shall be final. 
23.24.060080 EXPIRATION
These local code amendments shall sunset when the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, is no longer in effect.
Section 2. The Council adopts the findings supporting the local amendments to the California Energy Code, 2019 
Edition, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. 
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, adoption of this Ordinance is categorially exempt from CEQA, because it imposes 
stricter energy efficiency requirements and is a regulatory action authorized by state law and intended to 
protect the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective January 1, 2021.
32 of 218

--- page 33 ---
Exhibit A
FINDINGS SUPPORTING LOCAL AMENDMENTS TO
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE, 2019 EDITION
Section 17958 of the California Health and Safety Code provides that the City may make changes to the 
provisions in the uniform codes that are published in the California Building Standards Code. Sections 17958.5 
and 17958.7 of the Health and Safety Code require that for each proposed local change to those provisions in 
the uniform codes and published in the California Building Standards Code which regulate buildings used for 
human habitation, the City Council must make findings supporting its determination that each such local change 
is reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological, or topographical conditions. 
Local building regulations having the effect of amending the uniform codes, which were adopted by the City 
prior to November 23, 1970, were unaffected by the regulations of Sections 17958, 17958.5 and 17958.7 of the 
Health and Safety Code. Therefore, amendments to the uniform codes which were adopted by the City Council 
prior to November 23, 1970, and have been carried through from year to year without significant change, need 
no required findings. Also, amendments to provisions not regulating buildings used for human habitation, 
including amendments made only for administrative consistency, do not require findings. 
Code: California Energy Code
Section(s) 
Title 
Add 
Deleted 
Amended 
Justification 
(See below 
for keys) 
Subchapter 1, 
Section 100.1
Definitions and Rules of 
Construction
X
A, B
Subchapter 2, 
Section 110.13
All Electric Buildings
X
X
A, B
Subchapter 5, 
Section 140.0
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches
X
A, B 
Subchapter 8, 
Section 150.1
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches for Low-Rise 
Residential Buildings
X
A, B
33 of 218

--- page 34 ---
Key to Justification Supporting Amendments to Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations
A.
1. This amendment is justified on the basis of a local climatic condition. Failure to address and 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could result in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco 
Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101 (Bayshore Freeway), 
particularly the mapped Flood Hazard areas of the City. Energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy 
sources are key components in reducing GHG emissions, and construction of more energy efficient buildings 
with dedicated renewable energy installations can help the City of San Mateo reduce its share of the GHG 
emissions that contribute to climate change. The burning of fossil fuels used in the generation of electric power 
and heating of buildings contributes to climate change, which could result in rises in sea level, including in San 
Francisco Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101. 
 
B.
2. Energy efficiency enhances the public health and welfare by promoting the environmental 
and economic health of the City through the design, construction, maintenance, operation and deconstruction 
of buildings and sites by incorporating green practices into all development. The provisions in this Chapter are 
designed to achieve the following goals: 
(a) Increase energy efficiency in buildings; 
(b) Increase resource conservation; 
(c) Provide durable buildings that are efficient and economical to own and operate; 
(d) Promote the health and productivity of residents, workers, and visitors to the city; 
(e) Recognize and conserve the energy embodied in existing buildings; and 
(f) Reduce disturbance of natural ecosystems. 
34 of 218

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3567
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Phase 3 Engineering Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a professional services agreement with WRECO for engineering services in an amount not to exceed $195,741; 
establish a contingency reserve of $23,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and approve amendments within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Program will replace all high voltage streetlight circuits with new low voltage 
circuits to minimize streetlight outages, improve circuit reliability, allow for conversion to LED lighting, and reduce 
maintenance needs.  The Phase 3 project will convert seven (7) of the remaining sixteen (16) high voltage circuits, 
comprised of approximately one-hundred-thirty-five (135) streetlights located in various areas around the city, including 
Alameda de Las Pulgas near Aragon High School, and in the area downtown bounded by Baldwin Avenue, B Street, 
2nd Avenue, and El Camino Real.  There are no pedestrian-scale lights in the Phase 3 project.
During October 2018, Public Works staff issued a request for proposals (RFP) to select qualified firms to provide on-call 
engineering consulting services. The City received proposals from thirteen (13) firms and evaluated the proposals based on 
project understanding, experience with similar projects, quality of project manager, and technical ability of key staff. Staff 
short-listed three firms and conducted in-person interviews with each firm’s proposed project team. The on-call 
engineering consulting firms selected by staff are:

Wilsey Ham

WRECO

Bellecci & Associates
In August 2020, Public Works staff solicited proposals from the three short-listed firms for on-call engineering services 
associated with planning and designing Phase 3 for the High Voltage Streetlight Conversion program. Services include 
research to verify circuit maps of remaining high voltage circuits; budget level construction cost estimates for the 
remaining high voltage circuits; preparation of plans, specifications, estimates, and services during bidding; and 
engineering services during construction for the Phase 3 project. 
Two of the three on-call consulting firms submitted proposals for this project.  Staff finds WRECO’s scope, budget, and 
schedule align with the City’s needs and recommends awarding an agreement for design services and engineering services 
during construction for the Phase 3 project.
35 of 218

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Project, No. 460040.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061 (b)(3), Council action on this professional services agreement is not a 
project subject to CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that consultant design services will not have an impact on the 
environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Mike Kato, Associate Engineer
mkato@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7377
36 of 218

--- page 37 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 1 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
AGREEMENT WITH WRECO 
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR 
HIGH VOLTAGE STREETLIGHT CONVERSION PROJECT – PHASE 3 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and WRECO, a Corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1000 Broadway, Suite 475, 
Oakland, CA, 94607: 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
37 of 218

--- page 38 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 2 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the issuance of notice 
to proceed and be completed on or about twelve months after the issuance of the notice to proceed. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $195,741, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
38 of 218

--- page 39 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 3 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
39 of 218

--- page 40 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 4 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
 
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
40 of 218

--- page 41 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 5 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Brad Underwood, Public Works Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
WRECO, INC. 
Attn:  Garrett Low 
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
41 of 218

--- page 42 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 6 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Han-Bin Liang 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
42 of 218

--- page 43 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 7 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
43 of 218

--- page 44 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     1 
City of San Mateo 
High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Project - Phase 3 
September 1, 2020 
 
Scope of Services 
The WRECO Team’s proposed scope of services includes designing and preparing the construction 
contract documents for the City of San Mateo’s (City) High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Project - Phase 
3 (Project). The following streets and limits are included in this scope of services.   
 
 
Street Name
# of Streetlight Replacement 
1 
28th Avenue 
12 
2 
27th Avenue 
49 
3 
Woodland Drive 
26 
4 
Yew Street 
22 
5 
Palm Avenue 
13 
6 
36th Avenue 
17 
7 
Downtown / 4th Avenue 
43 
     
The Project is part of an ongoing effort by the City to convert its remaining outdated high voltage 
streetlight circuits to modern low voltage circuits. The Project will consist of two parts: the first part will 
be to refresh the budgetary cost estimates for converting the remaining high voltage circuits, and the 
second part will be to prepare the plans, specifications, and estimate (PS&E) for the conversion of the top 
seven circuits on the City’s priority list. Existing poles and pull boxes will remain and be reused if they are 
in good condition. New service conductors and conduits will be installed, preferably by trenchless 
methods. Existing conduits and conductors will be abandoned in place. Existing fixtures will be replaced 
by new LED fixtures. Existing circuits may be divided or combined as needed to achieve a good design that 
balances construction cost, ease of maintenance, and minimizing the number of service connections. 
 
TASK 1 – PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION 
Task 1.1 - Project Schedule 
Upon receiving the Notice-to-Proceed (NTP), WRECO will prepare a preliminary Project schedule for the 
City’s review. The schedule will identify the critical path items, review times, and milestone submittals. 
The schedule will be submitted to the City within five (5) working days of receiving the NTP. WRECO will 
update and issue the revised Project schedule as necessary. 
 
Task 1.2 - Project Kickoff Meeting 
Upon receiving the NTP, WRECO will coordinate a Project Kickoff Meeting with the City. The purpose of 
the meeting will be to gain approval of the proposed base schedule and to identify any known Project 
issues. Meeting minutes will be prepared and distributed within five (5) working days of the meeting. 
 
44 of 218

--- page 45 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     2 
Task 1.3 - Project Review Meetings 
The WRECO Team will attend up to four (4) meetings with the City. The primary purpose of each meeting 
will be to review comments received from each milestone deliverable. One meeting will be held after the 
35% submittal to review the findings and three more meetings after receiving comments from the City on 
the 65%, 95%, and 100% PS&E submittals. WRECO will discuss any comments that require clarification 
from the City and obtain agreement on the design team’s proposed methods to address the City’s 
comments. WRECO will provide meeting minutes to the City and team members. Additionally, WRECO 
will provide the City with a Project progress report and an invoice on a monthly basis.  
 
Task 1.4 - Quality Control 
The WRECO Team’s designated Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Manager will ensure the 
QA/QC procedures established for the Project will be adhered to by all WRECO Team members. The 
following QC procedures will be used in the development of the planning and engineering documents for 
the Project: 
 
Define key team members and their respective roles and responsibilities for the Project. 
 
Identify, categorize, and incorporate correspondence, memoranda, and reports prepared for the 
Project within a distinct filing system that enables quick recovery upon request by the City and/or 
WRECO Team members. 
 
Perform internal plan QC reviews by the Project Manager and Team Leaders to ensure conflicts 
and miscommunication do not occur. 
 
Perform QA reviews by senior management who are not involved with the development of the 
Project documents at the 65%, 95%, and 100% PS&E milestones before submittal to the City. 
 
Task 1 Deliverables 
 
Project Schedule 
 
Project Meeting Minutes 
 
Monthly Invoices and Progress Reports 
 
TASK 2 – PRE-DESIGN INVESTIGATIONS 
Task 2.1 - Field Reconnaissance & Investigation 
The WRECO Team will conduct extensive field reconnaissance to assess the extents of the existing high 
voltage circuits and verify fixture types; evaluate condition of existing poles and pull boxes; and prepare 
voltage drop calculations. 
 
Task 2.2 - Update Program Cost Estimates 
The WRECO Team will review the existing circuit maps with City staff to verify remaining conversion work 
to be performed, and we will prepare revised circuit maps based on this discussion. The WRECO Team will 
then prepare the revised cost estimates.  
 
Task 2.3 - Utility Investigations & Potholing 
The WRECO Team will conduct a search of potential utility owners who might have facilities within the 
limits of the Project on each street. We will prepare utility request letters for the City to send to the 
owners requesting record drawings of their facilities or confirming they do not have any facilities that 
could be in conflict with the proposed improvements. 
45 of 218

--- page 46 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     3 
A composite plan of existing utilities will be prepared based on the information received from the utility 
owners and utility information received from the City. Potential conflicts between existing utilities and 
the proposed street light improvements will be identified. 
 
The WRECO Team will prepare a potholing plan and discuss the proposed plan with the City. After reaching 
an agreement on the potholing plan, WRECO and its potholing contractor will positively locate utilities 
with up to ten (10) potholes. It is assumed traffic control will be required, and the fieldwork will be 
completed in two (2) days.  
 
Task 2.4 - 35% Conceptual Plans 
The 35% design plans prepared under this task will include the following: 
 
Conceptual Electrical Plans  
 
Task 2.5 - Lighting Photometric Analysis 
The WRECO Team will use AGi32 software to prepare a photometric analysis to demonstrate improved 
design roadway lighting levels for each street. 
 
Task 2 Deliverables 
 
Updated Program Cost Estimates (PDF) 
 
Composite Plan of Existing Utilities (PDF) 
 
Potholing Plan (PDF) 
 
35% Conceptual Plans (PDF) 
 
Photometric Analysis (PDF) 
 
TASK 3 – 65% DESIGN SUBMITTAL 
Task 3.1 - Develop Design Base Maps 
The WRECO Team will compile the design base maps in AutoCAD utilizing the aerial maps. 
 
Task 3.2 - 65% Plans 
The 65% design plans prepared under this task will include the following: 
 
Title Sheet with Vicinity Map and General Notes, 
 
Index Map Sheet, 
 
Electrical Plans, and 
 
Construction Details.  
 
All sheets will be prepared on the City’s Standard Title Block and in AutoCAD (Version 2018). 
 
Task 3.3 - 65% Specifications 
Specifications will be written in the format of the City’s standard contract book and Caltrans’ Standard 
Plans and Specifications, dated 2018.  The City will provide the standard “front-end” specifications for the 
WRECO Team’s use. We will review the Boilerplate Front End specifications and recommend any 
appropriate changes. 
 
 
 
46 of 218

--- page 47 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     4 
Task 3.4 - 65% Construction Cost Estimate 
The WRECO Team will prepare a construction cost estimate to ensure the proposed improvements are 
within the available construction budget. The construction cost estimate will be based on historical unit 
costs obtained from recent projects near the Project area, as well as Caltrans’ construction cost data. 
 
Task 3.5 - Coordination with Pacific Gas and Electric 
The WRECO Team will coordinate with Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) to remove the existing regulated 
output and establish new service connections. 
 
Task 3 Deliverables 
 
65% Plans (PDF) 
 
65% Technical Specifications (PDF) 
 
65% Construction Cost Estimate (PDF) 
 
TASK 4 – 95% DESIGN SUBMITTAL 
Task 4.1 - Response to 65% Comments 
Upon receiving comments on the 65% submittal, the WRECO Team will prepare a Comment Response 
Form (CRF) to document the City’s comments. We will prepare written responses to each comment and 
submit the form to the City prior to the Project Review Meeting. After discussion with the City and upon 
reaching an agreement, the CRF will be updated to document the final status of each comment. 
 
Task 4.2 - 95% Plans 
Upon reaching an agreement with the City on the status of the 65% PS&E submittal comments, the 
WRECO Team will revise the plans accordingly to prepare the 95% plans. 
 
Task 4.3 - 95% Specifications 
The WRECO Team will update the technical specifications based on the 65% submittal comments and the 
95% plans. 
 
Task 4.4 - 95% Construction Cost Estimate 
The WRECO Team will update the Construction Cost Estimate to reflect the 95% plans and specifications. 
 
Task 4.5 - PG&E Service Application 
The WRECO Team will prepare the PG&E Service Application on behalf of the City. 
 
Task 4 Deliverables 
 
65% CRF 
 
95% Plans (PDF) 
 
95% Technical Specifications (PDF) 
 
95% Construction Cost Estimate (PDF) 
 
PG&E Service Application (electronic format) 
47 of 218

--- page 48 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     5 
 
TASK 5 – 100% DESIGN SUBMITTAL 
Task 5.1 - Response to 95% Comments 
Upon receiving comments on the 95% submittal, the WRECO Team will prepare a CRF to document the 
City’s comments. We will prepare written responses to each comment and submit the CRF to the City 
prior to the Project Review Meeting. After discussion with the City and upon reaching an agreement, the 
CRF will be updated to document the final status of each comment. 
 
Task 5.2 - 100% Plans 
Upon reaching an agreement with the City on the status of the 95% PS&E submittal comments, the 
WRECO Team will revise the plans accordingly to prepare the 100% plans. 
 
Task 5.3 - 100% Specifications 
The WRECO Team will update the technical specifications based on the 95% submittal comments and the 
100% plans. 
 
Task 5.4 - 100% Construction Cost Estimate 
The WRECO Team will update the Construction Cost Estimate to reflect the 100% plans and specifications. 
 
Task 5 Deliverables 
 
95% CRF (PDF) 
 
Final Stamped and Signed Plans (1 full-size copy and PDF) 
 
Final Stamped and Signed Specifications (1 original hard copy, Microsoft Word, and PDF) 
 
Final Construction Cost Estimate (1 hard copy and PDF) 
 
TASK 6 – BIDDING AND CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT 
For this task, the WRECO Team will provide nominal, supplemental support to the City for bidding and 
construction inquiries.  
 
Task 6.1 – Bid Support 
We will perform the following: 
 
Attend the pre-bid meeting, and  
 
Prepare drafts of addenda or clarifications. 
 
Task 6.2 – Construction Support 
We will perform the following: 
 
Attend the pre-construction conference to respond to questions concerning the PS&E; 
 
Review and prepare responses to Requests for Information (RFI) from the contractor; 
 
Review the contractor’s submittals and shop drawings for compatibility with design; 
 
Assist the City in preparing the Contract Change Orders (CCO), if needed; 
 
Participate in the final walk-through of the constructed Project; 
 
Perform final review/evaluation and assist with the preparation of the punch list of work 
deficiencies; and 
 
Prepare Record Drawings (As-builts).  
 
48 of 218

--- page 49 ---
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607 
Phone:  510.836.5188 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
                         | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources |     6 
Task 6 Deliverables 
 
Contract Addenda (as-needed) 
 
Answers to Bidders’ Questions (for distribution by the City during the bid phase) 
 
Responses to RFIs and CCOs 
 
Recommendations from the Final Review 
 
Record Drawings 
 
PROJECT ASSUMPTIONS 
The WRECO Team’s proposed scope of services and budget are provided based on the following 
assumptions. 
 
The City will: 
 
Provide environmental clearance for the Project; 
 
Provide construction inspection work and contract administration for the Project; 
 
Provide the WRECO Team with any City as-built or record drawings, utility underground maps, and 
any existing information necessary to complete the design; 
 
Provide the front end “boilerplate” for the specifications to the WRECO Team; and 
 
Be responsible for the reproduction of the construction bid packages (plans and specifications). 
 
The WRECO Team also assumes the following: 
 
No right-of-way mapping will be required; 
 
No major regulatory permits are needed; 
 
Construction work will be performed exclusively in the existing right-of-way; and 
 
An Encroachment Permit (if needed) will be provided at no cost to WRECO. 
 
WORK NOT INCLUDED IN SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The following tasks are not included in our proposed scope of services because they are not specifically 
noted from the City’s request. However, the WRECO Team can provide these services upon the City’s 
request and approval.  
 
Coordination with local businesses, schools, and residents impacted by the Project. 
 
Development of the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. 
 
Development of the Traffic Handling Plans and Stage Construction, which will be the contractor’s 
responsibility. 
 
49 of 218

--- page 50 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 8 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
 
50 of 218

--- page 51 ---
High Voltage Streetlight Conversion Project - Phase 3
City of San Mateo
Work-Hour and Fee Estimate for WRECO Tasks
Prepared by WRECO
Date: 9/4/2020
Supervising 
Engineer
Senior 
Engineer
Associate
Engineer
Staff Engineer
Clerical/
 Tech Editor
Principal 
Engineer
Supervising 
Engineer
Senior 
Engineer
Associate 
Engineer
Staff Engineer
Eng Technician
Billing Rates
237
$         
185
$         
124
$        
98
$          
82
$        
Hours
Labor Cost
ODC
Fee
220
$        
210
$         
145
$         
135
$         
85
$          
45
$          
Hours
Labor Cost
ODC
Fee
Hours
Fee
1
Project Management and Coordination
1.1
Project Schedule
2
2
371
$              
371
$               
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
2
371
$                 
1.2
Project Kickoff Meeting
2
2
4
845
$              
60
$             
905
$               
2
2
290
$              
-
$           
290
$             
6
1,195
$              
1.3
Project Review Meetings (35%, 65%, 95%, and 100%)
12
12
24
3,708
$           
240
$           
3,948
$           
12
12
1,740
$           
-
$           
1,740
$         
36
5,688
$              
1.4
Quality Control
8
8
1,895
$           
1,895
$           
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
8
1,895
$              
Subtotal 
10
16
12
0
0
38
6,819
$           
300
$           
7,119
$           
0
0
14
0
0
0
14
2,030
$           
-
$           
2,030
$         
52
9,149
$              
2
Pre-Design Investigations
2.1
Field Reconnaissance & Investigation
8
8
16
2,472
$           
2,472
$           
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
16
2,472
$              
2.2
Update Program Cost Estimates
4
12
16
2,225
$           
2,225
$           
4
12
12
16
24
12
80
9,880
$           
120
$          
10,000
$       
96
12,225
$            
2.3
Utility Investigations & Potholing
8
32
40
80
9,352
$           
25,000
$     
34,352
$         
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
80
34,352
$            
2.4
35% Conceptual Plans
4
8
8
20
2,513
$           
2,513
$           
12
24
20
20
40
40
156
18,480
$         
190
$          
18,670
$       
176
21,183
$            
2.5
Lighting Photometric Analysis
0
-
$               
-
$                
4
8
8
8
18
46
6,330
$           
-
$           
6,330
$         
46
6,330
$              
Subtotal 
0
24
60
48
0
132
16,562
$        
25,000
$     
41,562
$         
20
44
40
44
82
52
282
34,690
$         
310
$          
35,000
$       
414
76,562
$            
3
65% Design Submittal
3.1
Develop Design Base Maps
8
40
100
148
16,212
$        
16,212
$         
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
148
16,212
$            
3.2
65% Plans
2
4
8
24
38
4,553
$           
4,553
$           
16
20
16
16
40
40
148
17,400
$         
190
$          
17,590
$       
186
22,143
$            
3.3
65% Specifications
16
12
4
32
4,779
$           
4,779
$           
8
8
8
10
34
4,770
$           
-
$           
4,770
$         
66
9,549
$              
3.4
65% Construction Cost Estimate
1
2
4
7
824
$              
824
$               
4
4
4
8
20
2,640
$           
-
$           
2,640
$         
27
3,464
$              
3.5
Coordination with PG&E
8
8
16
2,472
$           
2,472
$           
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
16
2,472
$              
Subtotal 
2
37
70
128
4
241
28,840
$        
-
$            
28,840
$         
16
32
28
28
58
40
202
24,810
$         
190
$          
25,000
$       
443
53,840
$            
4
95% Design Submittal
4.1
Response to 65% Comments
2
2
4
618
$              
618
$               
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
4
618
$                 
4.2
95% Plans
2
4
8
12
26
3,378
$           
3,378
$           
16
20
16
16
40
40
148
17,400
$         
190
$          
17,590
$       
174
20,968
$            
4.3
95% Specifications
12
8
4
24
3,543
$           
3,543
$           
8
8
8
10
34
4,770
$           
-
$           
4,770
$         
58
8,313
$              
4.4
95% Construction Cost Estimate
1
2
4
7
824
$              
824
$               
4
4
4
8
20
2,640
$           
-
$           
2,640
$         
27
3,464
$              
4.5
PG&E Service Application
2
4
6
865
$              
865
$               
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
6
865
$                 
Subtotal 
2
21
24
16
4
67
9,229
$           
-
$            
9,229
$           
16
32
28
28
58
40
202
24,810
$         
190
$          
25,000
$       
269
34,229
$            
5
100% Design Submittal
5.1
Response to 95% Comments
2
2
4
618
$              
618
$               
0
-
$               
-
$           
-
$             
4
618
$                 
5.2
100% Plans
2
2
4
8
16
2,122
$           
2,122
$           
3
6
4
4
6
8
31
3,910
$           
20
$            
3,930
$         
47
6,052
$              
5.3
100% Specifications
8
4
4
16
2,307
$           
2,307
$           
1
1
4
6
620
$              
-
$           
620
$             
22
2,927
$              
5.4
100% Construction Cost Estimate
1
2
4
7
824
$              
824
$               
1
1
2
4
450
$              
-
$           
450
$             
11
1,274
$              
Subtotal 
2
13
12
12
4
43
5,871
$           
-
$            
5,871
$           
3
6
6
6
12
8
41
4,980
$           
20
$            
5,000
$         
84
10,871
$            
6
Bidding and Construction Support
6.1
Bid Support
2
4
6
865
$              
865
$               
1
4
4
4
4
17
2,360
$           
110
$          
2,470
$         
23
3,335
$              
6.2
Construction Support
4
12
16
2,225
$           
2,225
$           
1
8
12
12
6
39
5,530
$           
-
$           
5,530
$         
55
7,755
$              
Subtotal 
0
6
16
0
0
22
3,090
$           
-
$            
3,090
$           
2
12
16
16
0
10
56
7,890
$           
110
$          
8,000
$         
78
11,090
$            
TOTAL 
16
117
194
204
12
543
70,411
$      
25,300
$   
95,711
$       
57
126
132
122
210
150
797
99,210
$      
820
$        
$100,030
1340
195,741
$   
WRECO
Y & C Transportation
TOTALS BY TASK
TOTALS BY TASK
TEAM TOTAL
TASK
DESCRIPTION
&nbsp;
51 of&nbsp;218
EXHIBIT B 
PAYMENT RATES

--- page 52 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 9 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
52 of 218

--- page 53 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 10 of 10 
Rev 5/20 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
53 of 218

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3660
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Private Development Services – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc., an engineering firm, for on-call specialized 
subdivision map review and processing services in the amount of $90,000, for a new agreement total of $180,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 20, 2017, the City Manager approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for On-Call Private 
Development Services in an amount not-to-exceed $90,000. Services provided by CSG consist of map checking, including 
review of tentative and final parcel maps, as well as easements, lot line adjustments, and mergers. The City needs 
professional engineering services from a firm that specializes in subdivision map review and processing because this work 
is outside of the usual course of City staff’s work. 
The agreement with CSG is only for work related to maps and associated items, and the increased budget is estimated to 
be sufficient for two years of map-related work. All of CSG’s costs will be paid for through deposits collected as part of the 
building permit process. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact on the General Fund because specific project accounts will be charged as appropriate. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to a professional services agreement is an administrative action that will not cause a significant change in 
the physical environment and is therefore not a project subject to CEQA. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
54 of 218

--- page 55 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
55 of 218

--- page 56 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. FOR 
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
CSG Consultants, Inc (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services 
(“Agreement”) on November 15th, 2017; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City requires  the services of a professional engineering firm specializing in the 
review and processing of maps; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consultant will provide these services free from the control and direction of City 
staff; and 
 
WHEREAS, this work is outside the usual course of City staff’s work; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consultant is customarily engaged in these specialized engineering services; and 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to increase the payment from 
$90,000 to a not-to-exceed amount of $180,000; and 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 8 - Payment of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered an upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses 
set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified 
time and materials not to exceed $180,000.  Requests for payments shall be itemized 
and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based 
on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B-1. 
 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work 
authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing 
such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree upon an estimated not 
to exceed cost for such extra work.  In no event shall CONSULTANT be paid for 
additional work that is necessary because of CONSULTANT’S errors or oversights.” 
 
2. 
Exhibit B of the Agreement shall be replaced with Exhibit B-1. 
 
 
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
56 of 218

--- page 57 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG Consultants, Inc have executed this Agreement 
on ____________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyrus Kianpour 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
57 of 218

--- page 58 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
58 of 218

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3627
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department
MEETING DATE:
October 5, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Owned Commercial Properties – COVID-19 Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreements 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve COVID-19 Rent Waivers and Forbearance Agreements for A+Mail Boxes & More, Beard Papa’s, Cold Stone 
Creamery, Fletch’s, Red Giant Coffee, Next Level Sports, and Century Theaters. 
BACKGROUND:
The City owns and manages eight commercial properties in the Downtown. A+Mail Boxes & More, Beard Papa’s, Cold 
Stone Creamery, Fletch’s, and Red Giant Coffee are tenants at the Main Street Garage. Rise Pizzeria and Next Level Sports 
are retail and office tenants at the Transit Center. Century Theaters is the long-term ground lessee on the block of B Street 
between 2nd and 3rd Avenues. 
In response to the spread of COVID-19, on March 16, 2020 the City declared a state of emergency. On March 17, 2020, the 
San Mateo County Health Officer issued a shelter in place order that required all non-essential businesses to close 
immediately to slow the spread of COVID-19. Due to the public health emergency, businesses of all industries, types, and 
sizes have had problems generating sufficient revenue to cover rent and salaries. On August 21, 2020 City Council directed 
staff to provide rent relief to the City’s commercial property tenants as a response to the economic damage created by the 
coronavirus. 
Staff has adjusted the leases to provide rent forgiveness with the following terms:
•   Rent waiver for base monthly rent for all tenants from April 2020 to August 2020. 
•   Rent reduction of 50% for base monthly rent for all tenants starting on September 1, 2020 and continue at this reduced 
rate until the City’s State of Emergency is lifted. 
•   Previously paid partial or full rents will not be reimbursed. 
•   All other terms of the lease such as reassignment, termination, and lease extensions will remain the in effect. 
The Cinema received an additional month of rent waiver as they were unable to open on September 1st. On September 
22, public health orders changed allowing the Cinema to partially open for operations. The Cinema will start to pay a 
reduced rent on October 1, 2020. Rise Pizzeria is the only tenant not included in the lease amendments because Rise 
Pizzeria is currently in a period of waived rent due to previously negotiated lease terms. 
59 of 218

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Rent Forbearance Schedule
Name of Tenant
Address
Outstanding Balance Waived
Reduced Base Monthly Rent 
A+Mail Boxes & More
360 1st Avenue
$6,111.15
$600.52
Beard Papa’s Café
365 2nd Avenue
$3,568.24
$892.06
Century Theater
320 E 2nd Avenue
$174,539.70
$14,544.98
Cold Stone Creamery
375 2nd Avenue
$5,943.00
$1,485.75
Fletch’s
385 2nd Avenue
$4,666.86
$603.15
Next Level Sports
385 1st Avenue
$27,324.00
$2,781.00
Red Giant Coffee
390 1st Avenue 
$5,476.90
$556.97
Staff recommends approval of the rent waiver and forbearance agreements because it is unlikely that tenants will be able 
to earn enough to pay rent arears for the previously deferred rent. The rent waiver and forbearance of future rents during 
the City’s State of Emergency will help keep their doors opened. It is staff’s hope to retain our current tenants since it will 
be challenging to find replacement tenants for any businesses in the near term.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The amount of the rent waiver for the Downtown tenants for April through September is $227,629.85. The reduced 
monthly revenue is $21,464.43 until the City’s State of Emergency is lifted. Commercial lease revenues are deposited in 
the Downtown Parking Fund and are used to support the Downtown cleaning contract and maintenance of the parking 
garages.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement - A+Mail
Att 2 - Agreement - Beard Papa’s Cafe
Att 3 - Agreement - Century Theater
Att 4 - Agreement - Cold Stone Creamery 
Att 5 - Agreement - Fletch’s
Att 6 - Agreement - Next Level Sports
Att 7 - Agreement - Red Giant Coffee
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
60 of 218

--- page 61 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
DYLAN SIDDIQUI DBA A FOTO VIDEO MAIL AND MORE
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), and DYLAN SIDDIQUI DBA A FOTO VIDEO MAIL AND MORE, A CALIFORNIA SOLE 
PROPRIETORSHIP (the “TENANT”). Collectively, LANDLORD AND TENANT are referred to herein as the 
“PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to accommodate rent for the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real 
property commonly known and located at 360 1st Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES entered into a Lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”) on November 7, 2014, which requires 
the monthly payment of Base Rent.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c-19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health and State of California Executive Order No. 25-20 that have been issued in 
response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay Base Rent and attributes its inability to pay Base Rent to the financial 
hardship it has suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of 
businesses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
H.
The LANDLORD desire to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
61 of 218

--- page 62 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the LEASE, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to LEASE.
TENANT’s monthly Base Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any 
relevant amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $6,111.15 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly base rent of $600.52 (subject to any 
increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all PARTIES jointed prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
62 of 218

--- page 63 ---
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO AND DYLAN SIDDIQUI DBA A FOTO VIDEO MAIL AND MORE have 
executed this AGREEMENT. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Dylan Siddiqui dba A Foto Video Mail and More, a 
California Sole Proprietorship
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Dylan Siddiqui
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney 
 
63 of 218

--- page 64 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
SWEET CHEEKS PUFFS, LLC A CALIFORNIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
DBA BEARD PAPA’S SWEETS CAFE
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), and SWEET CHEEKS PUFFS, LLC A CALIFORNIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
DBA BEARD PAPA’S SWEETS CAFE (the “TENANT”). Collectively, LANDLORD AND TENANT are referred to herein 
as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to accommodate rent for the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing 
of real property commonly known and located at 365 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES have entered into a Lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”), dated July 1, 2009, which 
requires the monthly payment of Base Rent.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c-19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health and State of California Executive Order No. 25-20 that have been issued in 
response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay Base Rent and attributes its inability to pay Base Rent to the financial 
hardship it has suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of 
businesses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
H.
The LANDLORD desire to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
64 of 218

--- page 65 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the LEASE, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to LEASE.
TENANT’s monthly Base Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any 
relevant amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $3,568.24 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly base rent of $892.06 (subject to any 
increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all PARTIES jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provisions of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SWEET CHEEKS PUFFS, LLC have executed this AGREEMENT. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
65 of 218

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SWEET CHEEKS PUFFS, DBA BEARD PAPA’S SWEETS 
CAFÉ, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY 
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Waynee May Yeung
Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Ying Kit Yeung
Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney 
 
66 of 218

--- page 67 ---
RENT WAIVER AGREEMENT Between
The City of San Mateo
and
Century Theatres, INC
This Rent Waiver Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made as of the _____ day of October, 2020, 
by and between THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation (“LANDLORD”) and CENTURY 
THEATRES, INC.,  a California corporation (“TENANT”). Collectively, LANDLORD and TENANT are referred 
to herein as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to address the payment of Base Rent for the 
TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real property as THEATER PARCEL and PLAZA PARCEL located at 320 
East 2nd Ave San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”) during the COVID-19 pandemic.
RECITALS
A.
WHEREAS, TENANT’S occupancy of the PREMISES is based upon a GROUND LEASE (the “LEASE”) 
dated on or around September 15, 1999; and
B.
WHEREAS, international, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have 
continued to respond to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus 
named “SARS-CoV-2,” and the disease it causes has been named “coronavirus disease 2019,” 
abbreviated COVID-19, (“COVID-19”); and 
C.
WHEREAS, on March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a 
local state of emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health 
emergency in response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
D.
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 
25 (2020) proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
E.
WHEREAS, as a result of the public health emergency, indoor movie operations were not 
permitted beginning in March and the California Public Health Officer issued a Statewide Public 
Health Officer Order on July 13, 2020, which prohibited the indoor operation of movie theaters; 
and
F.
WHEREAS, in addition, based on the State’s “Blueprint for a Safer Economy,” which is available 
at covid19.ca.gov, indoor movie theater operations were not permitted until September 22, 
2020; and
G.
WHEREAS, in the County of San Mateo, indoor movie theater operations are now permitted at 
25%  of capacity or up to 100 seats, whichever is less; and 
67 of 218

--- page 68 ---
H.
WHEREAS, the TENANT is unable to pay Base Rent based on its inability to conduct indoor movie 
theater operations between the months of March to September; and 
I.
WHEREAS, the PARTIES desire to waive the requirement for payment of Base Rent while the 
movie theater’s indoor operations are limited; and
J.
WHEREAS, the LANDLORD has previously approved deferral of rent from April 2020-September 
2020; and 
K.
WHEREAS, at the August 21, 2020 City Council approved providing rent relief to TENANT for the 
period of time during which the movie theater is prohibited from operating at full capacity and
L.
WHEREAS, while indoor movie operations are limited, the PARTIES wish to make the plaza in 
front of the theater available for other uses. 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such 
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, 
the PARTIES agree as follows:
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the Recitals are incorporated as terms of this 
AGREEMENT.
2.
Base Rent Payments.
a.
Base Rent Waiver.
1)
LANDLORD waives TENANT’s outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent from April 
1, 2020, through September 30, 2020, in the amount of $174,539.70 due to the 
prohibition on the indoor operation of movie theaters during that time.
b.
Base Rent Reduction 
Effective October 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly base rent of $14,544.98 
(subject to any increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of 
the City of San Mateo adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.  
Beginning with the first day of the first full month after the local emergency has been 
declared to be terminated by City Council resolution, TENANT will pay the amount of 
Base Rent set forth in the LEASE.
3.
Use of Plaza During Pendency of Base Rent Waiver and Reduced Base Rent.  Until   the full 
amount of Base Rent payments resume, the Parties agree that the City may use the “Plaza” (as 
such term is defined in the LEASE), for outdoor dining and recreation subject to the prior written 
68 of 218

--- page 69 ---
approval of such use by Tenant as evidenced by a fully executed license agreement in the form 
substantially set forth in Exhibit A (“License Agreement”). 
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall 
be construed as if all PARTIES jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or 
ambiguity being interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance 
is held invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the 
application of such provisions to other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, 
the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable in any such instance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the PARTIES have executed this AGREEMENT as of the day and year first 
above written.
LANDLORD: 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a municipal corporation
TENANT:
CENTURY THEATERS, INC.,
a California corporation
  By: _________________________
  Name: Drew Corbett 
  Title: City Manager
By: 
Name: Jay Jostrand
Its: Executive Vice President-Real Estate
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan 
69 of 218

--- page 70 ---
Assistant City Attorney
70 of 218

--- page 71 ---
EXHIBIT A
(Form of License Agreement)
 LICENSE AGREEMENT
THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made effective as of the _______ 
day of ___________ 2020 (the “Effective Date”), by and between CENTURY THEATRES, 
INC., 
a 
California 
corporation 
("Licensor"), 
and 
________________________, 
a 
_________________ ("Licensee").
R E C I T A L S:
 WHEREAS, Licensor has a leasehold interest in that real property situated in the City of 
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California, which property (the “Licensor Property”) is more 
particularly described on Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and made a part hereof, and further depicted 
on the “Site Plan” attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit “B”; 
WHEREAS, Licensee and its invitees desire to use a portion of the Licensor Property for 
the [DESCRIBE THE ACTIVITY] subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises and promises contained 
herein, and other good and valuable considerations, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby 
mutually acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
A G R E E M E N T S:
1.
Grant of License.
Use.  Commencing on the Effective Date, Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a 
non-exclusive license to access and use that portion of the Licensor Property depicted on Exhibit 
“B”, (the “License Area”) for the [DESCRIBE THE ACTIVITY] Monday through ________ , 
during the hours of _____________. Such activity shall be for the non-exclusive use of Licensee 
and Licensee’s employees and invitees. [DESCRIBE ANY LIMITATIONS AND/OR 
CONDITIONS OF USE].
2.
Term. The term of this Agreement shall be week-to-week and commence on the 
Effective Date.  
3.
Use of License Area.  Licensor shall keep the License Area free and unobstructed 
for the use of all persons and parties entitled to the use thereof and shall not allow any obstructions 
to accumulate thereon.  Licensee shall conduct operations on and with respect to the License Area 
so as not to create a nuisance or cause detrimental effects (excepting normal wear and tear) to the 
improvements (if any) located thereon.
4.
Public Dedication.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed a gift or 
dedication of any portion of the Licensor Property to the general public or for the general public 
or for any public purpose whatsoever.  
71 of 218

--- page 72 ---
5.
Insurance/Indemnification. Licensee hereby indemnifies, defends and agrees to 
hold harmless Licensor, and Licensor’s agents, tenants, employees, customers, licensees, invitees, 
successors and assigns, with respect to all liabilities, costs, causes of action and claims relating to 
Licensee and/or Licensee employees, tenants and invitees use of the License Area, including 
claims associated in any way with the respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus named 
“SARS-CoV-2,” and the disease it causes has been named “coronavirus disease 2019,” abbreviated 
COVID-19, (“COVID-19”). In addition, Licensee shall maintain policies of public liability 
insurance coverage insuring against the risk of bodily injury, property damage and personal injury 
liability with respect to the use of the License  Area, with a limit of not less than Three Million 
and No/100 Dollars ($3,000,000) per occurrence; provided, however, that (i) at least $1,000,000.00 
of such general liability insurance shall be primary coverage, and (ii) the remaining $2,000,000.00 
of such coverage may be pursuant to an umbrella excess liability policy, issued by a reputable 
insurance company reasonably acceptable to Licensor which company is licensed to do business 
in the State of California, and having a Best’s A-, VII or better rating. Licensor or its successors 
and/or assigns shall be named as additional insured in such policy and Licensee and/or its assigns, 
shall provide Licensor with a Certificate of Insurance naming Licensor or its successor and/or 
assigns as an additional insured. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, 
Licensor has no obligation to provide any security for the License Area and Licensee hereby 
waives any and all claims and/or rights against Licensor due to any failure to provide any and/or 
adequate security.   
6.
Notices.  Any and all notices, demands or other communications required or desired 
to be given hereunder by any party shall be in writing and shall be validly given or made to another 
party if served either personally or via Federal Express or other nationally recognized courier 
delivery service or via the United States mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, return receipt 
requested.  If such notice, demand, or other communication be served personally, service shall be 
conclusively deemed made at the time of such personal service.  If such notice, demand, or other 
communication be given by mail, or by courier service, such shall be conclusively deemed given 
upon receipt or first refusal of receipt when addressed to the party to whom such notice, demand, 
or other communication is to be given as hereinafter set forth:
To Licensor:
Century Theatres, Inc. 
3900 North Dallas Parkway
Plano, TX  75093
Attn:  Paul A. Ledbetter, Vice President - Real Estate Counsel
With a Copy to:
Cinemark USA, Inc.
3900 North Dallas Parkway
Plano, TX  75093
Attn:  General Counsel
To Licensee:
_________________________
                                                _________________________
_________________________
_________________________
Attn:  _____________
72 of 218

--- page 73 ---
7.
Governmental Approvals.  If required, Licensee, at Licensee’s sole cost and 
expense, shall be responsible for and shall obtain any and all licenses, permits or other approvals 
from any and all governmental agencies, federal, state or local, required to carry on any activity 
permitted herein applicable specifically to Licensee’s and others use thereof.    
8.
Applicable Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted under the 
laws of the State of California.  Any litigation arising hereunder shall take place in San Mateo 
County, California.
9.
Conformity with all Applicable Laws.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be 
construed as requiring or permitting any person or entity to perform any act or omission in violation 
of any local, state or federal law, regulation or requirement in effect at the time the act or omission 
would occur.  Provisions in this Agreement which may require or permit such a violation shall 
yield to the law, regulations or requirement.
10.
Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each 
of which in the aggregate shall constitute one and the same instrument.
11.
Amendments and Termination.  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement 
between the parties regarding the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and 
understandings, if any, relating to the matters addressed herein and may be amended or 
supplemented only by a written instrument executed by the party against whom enforcement is 
sought. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, either party may (for any 
reason or no reason), terminate this Agreement upon three (3) days prior written notice to the other 
party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement to be effective as 
of the Effective Date.
LICENSOR:
CINEMARK USA, INC.,
a Texas corporation
 
By:  
Name:  Jay Jostrand
Title:  Executive Vice President – Real Estate 
LICENSEE:
___________________________, 
            a _____________________ 
           
By:  
Name:  _______________________ 
            Its:  __________________________
73 of 218

--- page 74 ---
EXHIBIT A
(Licensor Property)
             A leasehold estate in the following described real property:
74 of 218

--- page 75 ---
EXHIBIT “B”
(Site Plan/Parking Area)
“License Area” – outlined in red.
75 of 218

--- page 76 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), and COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC., AN ARIZONA 
CORPORATION (the “TENANT”). Collectively, LANDLORD AND TENANT are referred to herein as the “PARTIES”, 
and this AGREEMENT is made to accommodate rent for the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real property 
commonly known and located at 375 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES entered into a Lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”) on May 19, 2003, which requires the 
monthly payment of Base Rent.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health (the “Shelter in Place” Order) and State of California Executive Order No. 
25-20 (the “Executive Order”) that have been issued in response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay Base Rent and attributes its inability to pay Base Rent to the financial 
hardship it has suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of 
businesses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
H.
The LANDLORD desire to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
76 of 218

--- page 77 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the LEASE, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to LEASE.
TENANT’s monthly Base Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any 
relevant amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $5,943.00 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly base rent of $1,485.75 (subject to any 
increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all parties jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
77 of 218

--- page 78 ---
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO AND COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC. have 
executed this agreement. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC., 
AN ARIZONA CORPORATION
Drew Corbett
City Manager
By
Name (Print)________________________________
Title_______________________________________
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney 
 
78 of 218

--- page 79 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
FLETCHER ENTERPRISES, INC., DBA FLETCH’S
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), and FLETCHER ENTERPRISES, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION (the “TENANT”). 
Collectively, LANDLORD AND TENANT are referred to herein as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to 
accommodate rent for the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real property commonly known and located at 
385 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES entered into a Lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”) on October 21, 2010, which requires 
the monthly payment of Base Rent.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c-19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health and State of California Executive Order No. 25-20 that have been issued in 
response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay Base Rent and attributes its inability to pay Base Rent to the financial 
hardship it has suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of 
businesses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
H.
The LANDLORD desire to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
79 of 218

--- page 80 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the LEASE, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to LEASE.
TENANT’s monthly Base Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any 
relevant amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $4,666.86 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly base rent of $603.15 (subject to any 
increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all parties jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
80 of 218

--- page 81 ---
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO AND FLETCHER ENTERPRISES, INC. DBA FLETCH’S have executed this 
agreement. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
FLETCHER ENTERPRISES, Inc., DBA Fletch’s, a 
California Corporation
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Robert A. Fletcher
President
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
 
81 of 218

--- page 82 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
NEXT LEVEL SPORTS, LLC
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), NEXT LEVEL SPORTS, LLC, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (the 
“TENANT”), and TENANT’s guarantor, Lance Smith (“GUARANTOR”). Collectively, LANDLORD, TENANT, and 
GUARANTOR are referred to herein as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to accommodate rent for 
the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real property commonly known and located at 385 1st Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES entered into a lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”) on June 17, 2019.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health (the “Shelter in Place” Order) and State of California Executive Order 
No.25-20 (the “Executive Order”) that have been issued in response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay rent and attributes its inability to pay rent to the financial hardship it has 
suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of businesses caused 
by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
82 of 218

--- page 83 ---
H.
The LANDLORD desires to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the Lease, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to Lease.
TENANT’s monthly Base Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any 
relevant amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $27,324.00 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly Base Rent of $2,781.00 (subject to any 
increases to Base Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all parties jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
83 of 218

--- page 84 ---
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO AND NEXT LEVEL SPORTS, LLC, AND LANCE SMITH have executed this 
agreement. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NEXT LEVEL SPORTS, LLC, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED 
LIABILITY COMPANY
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Lance Smith
Member
GUARANTOR:
Lance Smith
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney 
 
84 of 218

--- page 85 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO,
GOOD DRINK, LLC, AND JIMMY HUANG
This Rent Waiver and Forbearance Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made effective this ______ day of 
________________, 2020 by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California (the “LANDLORD”), GOOD DRINK, LLC, DBA RED GIANT COFFEE, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED LIABILITY 
COMPANY (the “TENANT”), and JIMMY HUANG (the “GUARANTOR”). Collectively, LANDLORD, TENANT, AND 
GUARANTOR are referred to herein as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to accommodate rent for 
the TENANT’S occupancy and leasing of real property commonly known and located at 390 1st Street, San 
Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
The PARTIES entered into a lease for the PREMISES (the “LEASE”) on July 1, 2018.
B.
International, national, state, and local health and governmental authorities have continued to respond 
to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and the disease it causes is referred 
to as COVID-19.
C.
The PARTIES acknowledge the existence and effectiveness of Order No. c19 of the County of San Mateo 
Department of Public Health (the “Shelter in Place” Order) and State of California Executive Order 
No.25-20 (the “Executive Order”) that have been issued in response to COVID-19. 
D.
On March 4, 2020, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo proclaimed a local state of 
emergency, and the Health Officer of County of San Mateo declared a local health emergency in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and
E.
On March 16, 2020, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution No. 25 (2020) 
proclaiming the existence of a local emergency; and
F.
As a result of the public health emergency, the precautions recommended by State and County health 
officers, and in compliance with orders issued by those officers, a majority of businesses in San Mateo 
have experienced disruptions in their ability to operate  since March 2020; and
G.
The TENANT is unable to pay rent and attributes its inability to pay rent to the financial hardship it has 
suffered due to the government-mandated health orders for partial or full closure of businesses caused 
by the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
H.
The LANDLORD desires to provide financial relief to the TENANT during the COVID-19 pandemic; 
85 of 218

--- page 86 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such other 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the PARTIES 
agree as follows:
MODIFICATIONS TO LEASE
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the preceding paragraphs, including each and all of the 
Recitals, are incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth in their entirety.
2.
Effect of Modifications. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, all terms and conditions set forth 
in the LEASE, and prior all amendments and addenda thereto, shall remain unmodified and in full force 
and effect.
3.
Modifications to LEASE.
TENANT’s monthly Rent payment obligation under the existing terms of the LEASE, and any relevant 
amendment and/or addenda to the LEASE is amended as follows:
A.
Outstanding balance for unpaid Base Rent due from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, in 
the amount of $5,476.90 is waived.
B.
Reduced Base Rent from September 1, 2020, until the termination of local emergency: Effective 
September 1, 2020, TENANT will pay a reduced monthly Base Rent of $556.97 (subject to any 
increases to Rent provided for in the LEASE) until the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
adopts a resolution declaring termination of the local emergency.
4.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be 
construed as if all parties jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or ambiguity being 
interpreted against any one party.
5.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance is held 
invalid or unenforceable, the reaming provisions of this AGREEMENT and the application of such provisions to 
other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable 
in any such instance.
86 of 218

--- page 87 ---
In witness whereof, CITY OF SAN MATEO, GOOD DRINK, LLC, DBA RED GIANT COFFEE COMPANY, AND JIMMY 
HUANG have executed this Agreement. 
LANDLORD:
TENANT:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Good Drink, LLC, dba Red Giant Coffee, a CALIFORNIA 
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Jimmy Huang
Co-President/Secretary/Treasurer
GUARANTOR:
Jimmy Huang
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney 
 
87 of 218

--- page 88 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3634
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Park Rehabilitation and Improvement Per Capita Grant – Applications 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an application for Per Capita Grant Funds for the purpose of park rehabilitation 
improvements and authorize Director of Parks and Recreation to apply on behalf of the City. 
BACKGROUND:
This program originates from Proposition 68, which was approved by California voters on June 5, 2018. Funds for the 
program were appropriated via State Budget item 3790-101-6088(b).  Funds are provided for two programs, as described 
below. 
General Per Capita Program: $185,000,000 in funds are available for local park rehabilitation, creation, and improvement 
grants to local governments on a per capita basis. Grant recipients are encouraged to utilize awards to rehabilitate existing 
infrastructure and to address deficiencies in neighborhoods lacking access to the outdoors. 
Urban County Per Capita: $13,875,000 in additional funds are available for per capita grants to cities and districts in 
urbanized counties (a county with a population of 500,000 or more) providing park and recreation services within 
jurisdictions of 200,000 or less in population. 
An entity eligible to receive funds under this subdivision shall also be eligible to receive funds available under the General 
Per Capita Program (PRC §80061(b)). The City of San Mateo is eligible to receive $177,952 in General Per Capita funding 
and $63,869 in the Urban County Per Capita funding. 
It is anticipated these funds would be used to help fund playground renovation projects.
BUDGET IMPACT:
These are one-time grants and are reimbursed upon successful completion of the projects. The City is required to match 
20% of the grant amount, or approximately $48,000.  There are currently sufficient funds in the Citywide Park Play Area 
Upgrades project to cover the match. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any 
specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).).
NOTICE PROVIDED
88 of 218

--- page 89 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Prop 68 Per Capita Grant Allocations 
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager 
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
89 of 218

--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2020)
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO APPROVING APPLICATION(S) FOR 
PER CAPITA GRANT FUNDS
WHEREAS, the State Department of Parks and Recreation has been delegated the responsibility by the 
Legislature of the State of California for the administration of the Per Capita Grant Program, setting up necessary 
procedures governing application(s); and 
WHEREAS, said procedures established by the State Department of Parks and Recreation require the 
grantee’s Governing Body to certify by resolution the approval of project application(s) before submission of 
said applications to the State; and 
WHEREAS, the grantee will enter into a contract(s) with the State of California to complete 
project(s); 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California hereby: 
1. Approves the filing of project application(s) for Per Capita program grant project(s); and
2. Certifies that said grantee has or will have available, prior to commencement of project work utilizing 
Per Capita funding, sufficient funds to complete the project(s); and
3. Certifies that the grantee has or will have sufficient funds to operate and maintain the project(s), and
4. Certifies that all projects proposed will be consistent with the park and recreation element of the City 
of San Mateo’s general or recreation plan (PRC §80063(a)), and
5. Certifies that these funds will be used to supplement, not supplant, local revenues in existence as of 
June 5, 2018 (PRC §80062(d)), and
6. Certifies that it will comply with the provisions of §1771.5 of the State Labor Code, and
7. (PRC §80001(b)(8)(A-G)) To the extent practicable, as identified in the “Presidential Memorandum--
Promoting Diversity and Inclusion in Our National Parks, National Forests, and Other Public Lands 
and Waters,” dated January 12,2017, the City Of San Mateo will consider a range of actions that 
include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) Conducting active outreach to diverse populations, particularly minority, low- income, and 
disabled populations and tribal communities, to increase awareness within those communities and 
the public generally about specific programs and opportunities.
(B) Mentoring new environmental, outdoor recreation, and conservation leaders to increase 
diverse representation across these areas.
(C) Creating new partnerships with state, local, tribal, private, and nonprofit organizations to 
expand access for diverse populations.
(D) Identifying and implementing improvements to existing programs to increase visitation and 
access by diverse populations, particularly minority, low-income, and disabled populations and tribal 
communities.
(E) Expanding the use of multilingual and culturally appropriate materials in public 
communications and educational strategies, including through social media strategies, as 
appropriate, that target diverse populations.
90 of 218

--- page 91 ---
(F) Developing or expanding coordinated efforts to promote youth engagement and 
empowerment, including fostering new partnerships with diversity-serving and youth-serving 
organizations, urban areas, and programs.
(G) Identifying possible staff liaisons to diverse populations.
8.
Agrees that to the extent practicable, the project(s) will provide workforce education and training, 
contractor and job opportunities for disadvantaged communities (PRC §80001(b)(5)).
9.
Certifies that the grantee shall not reduce the amount of funding otherwise available to be spent on 
parks or other projects eligible for funds under this division in its jurisdiction. A one-time allocation 
of other funding that has been expended for parks or other projects, but which is not available on an 
ongoing basis, shall not be considered when calculating a recipient’s annual expenditures. (PRC 
§80062(d)).
10. Certifies that the grantee has reviewed, understands, and agrees to the General Provisions 
contained in the contract shown in the Procedural Guide; and
11. Delegates the authority to the Director of Parks and Recreation, or designee to conduct all 
negotiations, sign and submit all documents, including, but not limited to applications, agreements, 
amendments, and payment requests, which may be necessary for the completion of the grant 
scope(s); and
12. Agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
91 of 218

--- page 92 ---
California Drought, Water, Parks, Climate, Coastal Protection, and Outdoor Access for All Act 
of 2018 - Per Capita Grant Program 
 
Page 15 of 28  
 
July 1, 2020 
County 
Jurisdiction 
Allocation 
San Mateo 
City of Daly City 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of East Palo Alto 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Foster City 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Half Moon Bay 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Menlo Park 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Millbrae 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Pacifica 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of Redwood City 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of San Bruno 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of San Carlos 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of San Mateo 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
City of South San Francisco 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Highlands RD 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Ladera RD 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Town of Atherton 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Town of Colma 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Town of Hillsborough 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Town of Portola Valley 
$ 177,952 
San Mateo 
Town of Woodside 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Buellton 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Carpinteria 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Goleta 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Guadalupe 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Lompoc 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Santa Barbara 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Santa Maria 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
City of Solvang 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
Cuyama Valley RD 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
Isla Vista RPD 
$ 177,952 
Santa Barbara 
Mission Hills CSD 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Campbell 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Cupertino 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Gilroy 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Los Altos 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Milpitas 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Monte Sereno 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Morgan Hill 
$ 177,952 
Santa Clara 
City of Mountain View 
$ 177,952 
92 of 218

--- page 93 ---
California Drought, Water, Parks, Climate, Coastal Protection, and Outdoor 
Access for All Act of 2018 - Per Capita Grant Program 
 
Page 27 of 28  
 
July 1, 2020 
County 
Jurisdiction 
Allocation 
San Joaquin 
Mountain House CSD 
$ 12,574 
San Mateo 
City of Belmont 
$ 16,808 
San Mateo 
City of Brisbane 
$ 
2,885 
San Mateo 
City of Burlingame 
$ 18,581 
San Mateo 
City of Daly City 
$ 66,693 
San Mateo 
City of East Palo Alto 
$ 18,641 
San Mateo 
City of Foster City 
$ 20,593 
San Mateo 
City of Half Moon Bay 
$ 
7,720 
San Mateo 
City of Menlo Park 
$ 20,998 
San Mateo 
City of Millbrae 
$ 14,151 
San Mateo 
City of Pacifica 
$ 23,480 
San Mateo 
City of Redwood City 
$ 52,980 
San Mateo 
City of San Bruno 
$ 27,683 
San Mateo 
City of San Carlos 
$ 18,335 
San Mateo 
City of San Mateo 
$ 63,869 
San Mateo 
City of South San Francisco 
$ 40,997 
San Mateo 
Highlands RD 
$ 
1,340 
San Mateo 
Ladera RD 
$ 
795 
San Mateo 
Town of Atherton 
$ 
4,424 
San Mateo 
Town of Colma 
$ 
922 
San Mateo 
Town of Hillsborough 
$ 
6,678 
San Mateo 
Town of Portola Valley 
$ 
2,811 
San Mateo 
Town of Woodside 
$ 
3,401 
Santa Clara 
City of Campbell 
$ 25,670 
Santa Clara 
City of Cupertino 
$ 36,597 
Santa Clara 
City of Gilroy 
$ 34,182 
Santa Clara 
City of Los Altos 
$ 18,790 
Santa Clara 
City of Milpitas 
$ 46,591 
Santa Clara 
City of Monte Sereno 
$ 
2,219 
Santa Clara 
City of Morgan Hill 
$ 27,957 
Santa Clara 
City of Mountain View 
$ 50,959 
Santa Clara 
City of Palo Alto 
$ 41,027 
Santa Clara 
City of Santa Clara 
$ 78,670 
Santa Clara 
City of Saratoga 
$ 18,889 
Santa Clara 
City of Sunnyvale 
$ 94,835 
Santa Clara 
Rancho Rinconada RPD 
$ 
2,689 
Santa Clara 
Town of Los Altos Hills 
$ 
5,331 
Santa Clara 
Town of Los Gatos 
$ 18,778 
93 of 218

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
A
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3639
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Winter 2020-2021 Tree Planting Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to Greener Environments, LLC for Citywide Tree Planting in the amount of $130,800 and authorize 
the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and to approve change 
orders up to 10% of the agreement amount. 
BACKGROUND:
Each year, the Parks and Recreation Department contracts for the planting of 100-150 trees in public spaces throughout 
the city. In Fall 2019, the department published a Request for Bids (RFB) for tree planting services. Notice was provided in 
the Daily Journal and on the City's Bid Posting webpage. The agreement was awarded to Greener Environments, Inc. as the 
lowest responsive bidder, and they planted 135 trees at a unit cost of $654 each (total $88,290). For this proposed 
agreement, staff is able to utilize the previous low bid amount from Greener Environments as allowed in San Mateo 
Municipal Code 3.60.070(a), as the Fall 2019 bids are less than 12 months old and the general requirements for notice 
were met in soliciting the bids. This year, the department will be planting 200 trees at a unit cost of $654 per tree. The 
total agreement amount is $130,800.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in CIP Project 610008 (Tree Planting – Parks Division), as outlined in the adopted budget for 
2020-21.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Per CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, tree planting is categorically exempt from CEQA because it is a minor alteration to City 
property.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Winter 2020-2021 Tree Planting Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Fried, Manager Arborist
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7422
94 of 218

--- page 95 ---
Page 1 of 17 
AGREEMENT WITH Greener Environments, Inc.  
FOR Contract Services 
FOR 
Citywide Tree Planting Services 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day __________, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
Greener Environments, Inc., a corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 1330 Van Beurden 
Drive, STE 103, Los Osos, CA 93402. 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain Tree Planting services hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these Tree Planting services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
9/18/2020
95 of 218

--- page 96 ---
Page 2 of 17 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on October 10, 2020 and 
be completed on or about March 31, 2021. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR fees pursuant to 
rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
96 of 218

--- page 97 ---
Page 3 of 17 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in 
Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
97 of 218

--- page 98 ---
Page 4 of 17 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
98 of 218

--- page 99 ---
Page 5 of 17 
To CITY: 
Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist 
City of San Mateo 
2001 Pacifica Blvd 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Luke Huskey  
Greener Environments, Inc.  
1330 Van Beurden Drive, STE 103 Los 
Osos, CA 93402  
(805) 400-4140 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
99 of 218

--- page 100 ---
Page 6 of 17 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Greener Environments, Inc. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Sheila Canzian 
Director of Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
 
 
Luke Huskey  
President, Greener Environments, Inc.  
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
100 of 218

--- page 101 ---
Page 7 of 17 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
TREE PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Scope of Work 
 
Receive delivery of ~200 trees, tagged and purchased by City. 
 
Maintain tree health and vigor until planting. 
 
Plant trees in various locations throughout City of San Mateo. 
 
Provide stump-grinding services as needed to plant trees according to specs. All stump grinding and site 
prep costs to be built in to unit pricing. 
 
Follow all applicable ANSI A300 Standards and BMPs and all specifications detailed below. 
 
Contractor to provide all labor and equipment necessary for scope of work. 
 
Contractor to provide all tree stakes, tree tie, soil (as needed), debris disposal, staple gun. 
 
Scheduling of Operations 
Work will commence no sooner than October 10, 2020 and be completed no later than March 31, 
2021. Contractor may not work on weekends or any holidays observed by the City of San Mateo. 
 
Each Friday, Contractor to provide a schedule for locations to be planted the following week. 
 
Utility Conflicts 
Contractor is responsible for calling USA to determine potential utility conflicts for all planting sites. 
Where existing utilities prevent the planting of the tree in line with the green paint marking on the 
curb, contractor must alert Managing Arborist (or designee) to adjust planting location. Some 
underground utilities will not be reflected by a USA investigation. One example anticipated is private 
irrigation piping that extends into the tree planter strip. Contractor assumes all responsibility for 
damage to underground utilities (including irrigation), marked or not, and will promptly arrange for 
repairs to be made in the event of damage. 
 
Repairing Damaged Work 
The Contractor will report without delay any damage to City or private equipment or prope1iy and 
shall be held responsible for the replacement of any such damage caused by the Contractor's 
performance of this contract. The Contractor shall be responsible for the replacement of all plant 
mate1ials, including trees, shrubs, ground cover and similar materials. Undergrowth and adjacent 
shrubbery or trees sustaining broken branches or other injury resulting from this operation shall 
receive corrective treatment. Large ruts or impact craters created during work shall be filled in or 
raised up in order to eliminate tripping hazards. The full cost of such replacement or repairs, including 
the cost of labor, shall be borne by the Contractor. The Contractor shall be fully responsible for any and 
all damage to City property, equipment, or other property on the public premises that result from the 
Contractor's operations under this contract. This shall include, but not be limited to the replacement, 
at Contractor's expense, of shrubs, trees, vines, turf, groundcover or other landscape items that are 
lost due to negligence or improper care in work practices. 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
101 of 218

--- page 102 ---
Page 8 of 17 
Tree Procurement & Delivery 
City of San Mateo has already purchased trees for this project at area nurseries. City of San Mateo will 
connect contractor with nurseries so that mutually agreed upon delivery may be scheduled. 
 
Trees will be delivered to, and stored at, City of San Mateo Landscape Resources Yard (2001 Pacific 
Blvd). This is a secure site with access to water. Contractor will provide equipment and labor to offload 
tree deliveries.  City will NOT provide staff nor equipment to assist. 
 
Upon delivery, contractor will refuse any material that does not meet American Association of Nursery 
Standards ANSI 760.1-2014. Contractor has authority to refuse any trees upon delivery and shall notify 
City of San Mateo of any rejected material. 
 
Contractor to inspect all trees for an intact leader. If the leader is broken at the time of the planting, 
contractor will be responsible for replacement. 
 
Storage 
Once received, contractor assumes responsibility for watering and tree health and safety until trees are 
planted. City to supply access to water. Contractor to provide a hose. 
 
Tree Transport to Job Site 
Trees are to be loaded, transported, and planted in such a way as to not injure any parts of the tree 
during these activities. Trees should be tarped prior to transport. 
 
Traffic Control 
Where necessary, contractor is responsible for setting up necessary signage and protocols to ensure 
the safety of workers, pedestrians, and motorists, and to comply with state and local regulations. 
 
'No Parking' Signs 
Contractor is responsible for posting "No Parking" signs, if needed to perform work. All signs must be 
posted a minimum of 72 hours in advance of work. Signs may be valid for a period not to exceed two 
business days. City of San Mateo will provide signs to contractor upon request. 
 
Site Preparation 
Many of the planting sites in this contract have existing stumps, shrubbery, or small dead trees (See 
Planting List). Contractor is responsible for removing these items from the planting site. 
 
Where stump grinding is necessary, contractor shall remove grindings from site to bring planting area 
to grade. Trees are not to be planted in a mixture any greater than 25% wood chips. See Figure 4. 
 
Pavement, concrete and rocks over 2-inches in diameter shall be removed from the planting pit to a 
minimum 24-inch depth. 
 
Where backfilling is necessary to bring planter pit soil to grade or to replace stump grindings or other 
debris, contractor will supply quality topsoil. See Figure 1. 
 
Below is a summary of the planting requirements. Contractor responsible for reviewing and ascribing 
to ISA BMP Tree Planting, 2nd Edition. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
102 of 218

--- page 103 ---
Page 9 of 17 
 
Planter Pit 
Follow ANSI A300 64.4 and ISA BMP Tree Planting 2nd Edition. Planter hole width to be minimum 1.5 
times rootball diameter. 
 
Planting Depth 
Bottom of trunk flare must be at or above finished grade. As defined in ISA BMP Tree Planting 2nct 
Edition pg. 16., If trunk flare is not visible at top ofroot ball/container, contractor shall expose trunk 
flare prior to planting. 
 
Root Care 
After container is removed, root ball shall be trimmed in the following way: 
1. Thick circling roots - straighten and/or cut cleanly 
2. Thin roots-make three to four vertical cuts 1h inch deep around the root ball. Spread bottom 
out if necessary 
 
Tree Placement 
Locate tree in hole and rotate to direct main branches away from street and pedestrian passages if 
possible. 
 
Watering at Planting 
Water must be added to root zone and surrounding soil to bring root zone to field capacity. 
 
Berm 
Contractor to form a soil benn no less than 3 inches but no greater than 6 inches around perimeter of 
root ball. 
 
Staking 
Refer to ANSI A300 Part 3 and BMP Tree Support Systems, 3rd Edition. 
 
If tree is delivered with a stake in the box/container, that stake is to be removed at planting. 
 
Each tree is to get three treated stakes that are a minimum of 8 feet in height and 2 inches in diameter. 
The three stakes shall be laterally stabilized by three cross braces. The cross braces, to be provided by 
the contractor, will be 19" wide x 3.75" high, cut from 5/8" plywood or fencing. The braces shall be 
nail/screwed to the stakes at about 5 feet high. Nails shall not protrude from the surface of the wood. 
Note: past contractors have found fencing material of adequate width for this task. See Figure 3. 
 
Contractor will use staple gun to fasten one 3" x 15" vinyl sign to each of the three cross braces (3 
stickers per tree). Educational signs to be provided by CoSM. See Figure 2. 
 
Tree Tie 
Trees are to be secured with ties of a stretchable material. Tie material and configuration should 
prevent main stem and branches from rubbing against staking and crossbraces. Contractor to present 
tying methods to Managing Arborist for approval prior to contract start. 
Staffing and Supervision 
One crew leader is to be assigned to work on this project for its entire duration. That crew leader shall 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
103 of 218

--- page 104 ---
Page 10 of 17 
be fluent in English and be able to accept instruction from the City's Managing Arborist (or designee). 
The name of this supervisor should be submitted with the proposal and they shall have at all times a 
charged mobile phone on which City staff can reach them. 
 
Post-planting Inspection and Performance Criteria 
The City has contracted Davey Resource Group to handle post-planting inspections. A certified arborist 
from DRG will be inspecting all trees following planting to ensure they are planted according to the 
contract specifications. Contractor responsible to correct all deviations noted during the post-work 
inspection. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: A pit like this must be brought to the grade of the sidewalk and curb. Contractor responsible 
for providing additional soil when necessary. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
104 of 218

--- page 105 ---
Page 11 of 17 
 
 
Figure 2: Sample sticker to be stapled to tree stake cross braces. 3 per tree. Stickers to be provided by   
City of San Mateo.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
105 of 218

--- page 106 ---
Page 12 of 17 
 
 
Figure 3: Example of appropriate staking
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
106 of 218

--- page 107 ---
Page 13 of 17 
./ 
 
Figure 4: Example of unacceptable planting. Tree planted too high. Wood chips not removed to grade.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
107 of 218

--- page 108 ---
Page 14 of 17 
 
Figure 5: Sample Google Map. Contractor will be provided with a link to a Google Map with all the 
locations and their existing condition. This map can be used to help crews navigate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
108 of 218

--- page 109 ---
Page 15 of 17 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
The following fees will be paid upon receipt of invoice AND satisfactory completion of full scope of 
project. 'Satisfactory' will be determined by City Managing Arborist. Invoice must itemize each 
location planting including planting address and species. 
 
Planting Spec 
15 gallon 
24" box 
Street Trees (3 stakes and signage) 
$435 
$654 
Park Trees (2 stakes and flexy tie) 
$352 
$536 
Park Trees w/ Deer Protection 
$572 
$756 
 
 
City provides trees.  
Contractor provides stakes, cross braces, ties, and all labor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
109 of 218

--- page 110 ---
Page 16 of 17 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
110 of 218

--- page 111 ---
Page 17 of 17 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
111 of 218

--- page 112 ---
ANY PROPRIETOR/PARTNER/EXECUTIVE
OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?
INSR
ADDL SUBR
LTR
INSD WVD
PRODUCER
CONTACT
NAME:
FAX
PHONE
(A/C, No):
(A/C, No, Ext):
E-MAIL
ADDRESS:
INSURER A :
INSURED
INSURER B :
INSURER C :
INSURER D :
INSURER E :
INSURER F :
POLICY NUMBER
POLICY EFF
POLICY EXP
TYPE OF INSURANCE
LIMITS
(MM/DD/YYYY)
(MM/DD/YYYY)
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
UMBRELLA LIAB
EXCESS LIAB
WORKERS COMPENSATION
AND EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES  (ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, may be attached if more space is required)
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
EACH OCCURRENCE
$
DAMAGE TO RENTED
CLAIMS-MADE
OCCUR
$
PREMISES (Ea occurrence)
MED EXP (Any one person)
$
PERSONAL & ADV INJURY
$
GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER:
GENERAL AGGREGATE
$
PRO-
POLICY
LOC
PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG
JECT 
OTHER:
$
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
$
(Ea accident)
ANY AUTO
BODILY INJURY (Per person)
$
OWNED
SCHEDULED
BODILY INJURY (Per accident)
$
AUTOS ONLY
AUTOS
HIRED
NON-OWNED
PROPERTY DAMAGE
$
AUTOS ONLY
AUTOS ONLY
(Per accident)
$
OCCUR
EACH OCCURRENCE
CLAIMS-MADE
AGGREGATE
$
DED
RETENTION $
PER
OTH-
STATUTE
ER
E.L. EACH ACCIDENT
E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE $
If yes, describe under
E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below
INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE
NAIC #
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
Y / N
N / A
(Mandatory in NH)
SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE    EXPIRATION    DATE    THEREOF,    NOTICE   WILL   BE   DELIVERED   IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.
THIS  IS  TO  CERTIFY  THAT  THE  POLICIES  OF  INSURANCE  LISTED  BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED.    NOTWITHSTANDING  ANY  REQUIREMENT,  TERM  OR  CONDITION  OF  ANY  CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE  MAY  BE  ISSUED  OR  MAY  PERTAIN,  THE  INSURANCE  AFFORDED  BY  THE  POLICIES  DESCRIBED  HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.
THIS  CERTIFICATE  IS  ISSUED  AS  A  MATTER  OF  INFORMATION  ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE  DOES  NOT  AFFIRMATIVELY  OR  NEGATIVELY  AMEND,  EXTEND  OR  ALTER  THE  COVERAGE  AFFORDED  BY THE POLICIES
BELOW.    THIS  CERTIFICATE  OF  INSURANCE  DOES  NOT  CONSTITUTE  A  CONTRACT  BETWEEN  THE ISSUING INSURER(S), AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.
IMPORTANT:    If  the  certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If  SUBROGATION  IS  WAIVED,  subject  to  the  terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement.  A statement on
this certificate does not confer rights to the certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).
COVERAGES
CERTIFICATE NUMBER:
REVISION NUMBER:
CERTIFICATE HOLDER
CANCELLATION
© 1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
ACORD 25 (2016/03)
CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE
DATE (MM/DD/YYYY)
$
$
$
$
$
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
9/18/2020
License # 0305584
(805) 543-6887 337
(805) 543-3064
31453
Greener Environments, Inc. dba Wild Bloom
1330 Van Beurden Dr., Suite 103
Los Osos, CA 93402
19445
27847
A
1,000,000
X
X
60513744
2/23/2020
2/17/2021
100,000
5,000
1,000,000
2,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
A
X
X
60513744
2/23/2020
2/17/2021
2,000,000
B
EBU011508734
9/11/2020
9/11/2021
2,000,000
C
X
WPL504658401
2/17/2020
2/17/2021
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
Re: Citywide Tree Planting Services 2020-2021,City of San Mateo.
See forms attached as triggered by written contract: 
GL: AI/PNC/WOS - CG2010R 12 11 (Ongoing and Completed Operations);
AL: AI/WOS - CA7109 0117;
WC: WOS - WC990634 (Ed. 8-00).
City of San Mateo
2001 Pacifica Blvd
San Mateo, CA 94403
GREEENV-01
PATRA04
Morris & Garritano Insurance Agency, Inc.
PO Drawer 1189
San Luis Obispo, CA 93406
Diana Gonzalez
dgonzalez@morrisgarritano.com
Financial Pacific Insurance Company
National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.
Insurance Company of the West
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
112 of 218

--- page 113 ---
60513744 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  PREMIUM  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   REFER TO GENERAL LIABILITY 
   SCHEDULE ON FORM 
   CG 70 01 02 05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
2/23/20
2/23/21 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
113 of 218

--- page 114 ---
COMMERCIAL AUTO
CA 71 09 01 17
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
CA 71 09 01 17
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
Page 1 of 7
BUSINESS AUTO ULTRA ENDORSEMENT
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
BUSINESS AUTO COVERAGE FORM
COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS
COVERAGE INDEX
DESCRIPTION
PAGE
Temporary Substitute Auto Physical Damage
2
Broad Form Insured
2
Employee as Insureds
2
Additional Insured Status by Contract, Agreement or Permit
2
Bail Bond Coverage
3
Loss of Earnings Coverage
3
Amended Fellow Employee Coverage
3
Towing and Labor
3
Physical Damage Additional Transportation Expense Coverage
3
Extra Expense - Theft
3
Rental Reimbursement and Additional Transportation Expense
4
Personal Effects Coverage
4
Personal Property of Others
4
Locksmith Coverage
4
Vehicle Wrap Coverage
5
Airbag Accidental Discharge
5
Audio, Visual and Data Electronic Equipment Coverage
5
Auto Loan/Lease Total Loss Protection
5
Glass Repair – Deductible Amendment
5
Amended Duties in the Event of Accident, Claim, Suit or Loss
6
Waiver of Subrogation Required by Contract
6
Unintentional Failure to Disclose
6
Hired, Leased, Rented or Borrowed Auto Physical Damage
6
Mental Anguish
7
Extended Cancellation Condition
7
The COVERAGE INDEX set forth above is informational only and grants no coverage.
Terms set forth in
(Bold 
Italics) are likewise for information
only and by themselves shall be deemed to grant no
coverage.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
114 of 218

--- page 115 ---
Page 2 of 7
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
CA 71 09 01 17
(Temporary Substitute Auto Physical Damage)
A.
TEMPORARY SUBSTITUTE AUTO PHYSICAL DAMAGE
SECTION I – COVERED AUTOS, paragraph C. Certain Trailers, Mobile Equipment and Temporary Substitute
Autos is amended by adding the following at the end of the existing language:
If Physical Damage Coverage is provided under this Coverage form for an "auto" you own, the Physical Damage
coverages provided for that owned "auto" are extended to any "auto" you do not own while used with the permission of its
owner as a temporary substitute for the covered "auto" you own that is out of service because of its breakdown, repair,
servicing, "loss", or destruction
B.
BROADENED LIABILITY COVERAGES
SECTION II – LIABILITY COVERAGE in Paragraph A. Coverage at 1. Who Is An Insured is amended to include the
following:
(Broad Form Insured)
d.
Any legally incorporated subsidiary in which you own more than 50% of the voting stock on the effective date
of the Coverage Form. However, the Named Insured does not include any subsidiary that is an "insured"
under any other automobile policy or would be an "insured" under such a policy but for its termination or the
exhaustion of its Limit of Insurance.
e.
Any organization that is acquired or formed by you, during the term of this policy and over which you
maintain majority ownership. However, the Named Insured does not include any newly formed or acquired
organization:
(1) That is a joint venture or partnership,
(2) That is an "insured" under any other policy,
(3) That has exhausted its Limits of Insurance under any other policy, or
(4) 180 days or more after its acquisition or formation by you, unless you have given us notice of the
acquisition or formation
Coverage does not apply to "bodily injury" or "property damage" that results from an accident that occurred
before you formed or acquired the organization.
(Employee as Insureds)
f.
Any employee of yours while acting in the course of your business or your personal affairs while using a
covered "auto" you do not own, hire or borrow.
(Additional Insured Status by Contract, Agreement or Permit)
g.
Any person or organization whom you are required to add as an additional insured on this policy under a
written contract or agreement; but the written contract or agreement must be:
(1) Currently in effect or becoming effective during the term of this policy; and
(2) Executed prior to the "bodily injury" or "property damage."
The additional insured status will apply only with respect to your liability for "bodily injury" or "property
damage" which may be imputed to that person(s) or organization(s) directly arising out of the ownership,
maintenance or use of the covered "autos" at the location(s) designated, if any.
Coverage provided by this endorsement will not exceed the limits of liability required by the written contract
or written agreement even if the limits of liability stated in the policy exceed those limits. This endorsement
shall not increase the limits stated in Section II. C. Limits of Insurance.
For any covered "auto" you own this Coverage Form provides primary coverage.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
115 of 218

--- page 116 ---
CA 71 09 01 17
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
Page 3 of 7
C.
BROADENED SUPPLEMENTARY PAYMENTS
SECTION II. LIABILITY A. Coverage 2. Coverage Extensions a. Supplementary Payments (2) and (4) are replaced
by the following:
(Bail Bond Coverage)
(2) Up to $5,000 for cost of bail bonds (including bonds for related traffic violations)
required because of an
"accident" we cover. We do not have to furnish these bonds.
(Loss of Earnings Coverage)
(4) All reasonable expenses incurred by the "insured" at our request, including actual loss of earning up to $500 a
day because of time off from work.
(Amended Fellow Employee Exclusion)
D.
AMENDED FELLOW EMPLOYEE EXCLUSION
Only with respect to your "employees" who occupy positions which are supervisory in nature, SECTION II. LIABILITY B.
Exclusion 5. Fellow Employee is replaced by:
5.
Fellow Employee
"Bodily Injury":
a.
To you, or your partners or members (if you are a partnership or joint venture), or to your members (if you
are a limited liability company);
b.
To your "executive officers" and directors (if you are an organization other than a partnership, joint venture,
or limited liability company) but only with respect to performance of their duties as your officers or directors;
c.
For which there is an obligation to share damages with or repay someone else who must pay damages
because of the injury described in paragraph a and b above; or
d.
Arising out of his or her providing or failing to provide professional health care services.
For purposes of this endorsement, a position is deemed to be supervisory in nature if that person performs
principle work which is substantially different from that of his or her subordinates and has authority to hire,
transfer, direct, discipline or discharge.
E.
BROADENED PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGES
SECTION III – PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE A. Coverage is amended as follows:
(Towing and Labor)
2.
Towing is deleted and replaced with the following:
2.
Towing and Labor
We will pay towing and labor costs incurred, up to the limits shown below, each time a covered "auto" is disabled:
a.
For private passenger type vehicles we will pay up to $100 per disablement.
b.
For all other covered "auto's" we will pay up to $500 per disablement
However, the labor must be performed at the place of disablement.
(Physical Damage Additional Transportation Expense Coverage)
4.
Coverage Extensions
a. Transportation Expenses is amended to provide the following limits:
We will pay up to $60 per day to a maximum of $1,800. All other terms and provisions of this section remain
applicable.
The following language is added to 4. Coverage Extensions:
(Extra Expense  Theft)
c.
Theft Recovery Expense
If you have purchased Comprehensive Coverage on an "auto" that is stolen, we will pay the expense of
returning that stolen auto to you. The limit for this coverage extension is $5,000.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
116 of 218

--- page 117 ---
Page 4 of 7
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
CA 71 09 01 17
(Rental Reimbursement and Additional Transportation Expense)
d.
Rental Reimbursement
We will provide Rental Reimbursement and Additional Expense coverage only for those Physical Damage
coverages for which a premium is shown in the Declarations or schedule pages. Coverage applies only to a
covered "auto".
(1) We will pay for auto rental expense and the expense incurred by you because of "loss" to remove and
transfer your materials and equipment from a covered "auto" to a covered "auto." Payment applies in
addition to the otherwise applicable coverage you have on a covered "auto." No deductible applies to this
coverage.
(2) We will pay only for expenses incurred during the policy period and beginning 24 hours after the "loss"
and ending, regardless of the policy's expiration, with the lesser of the following number of days:
(a) The number of days reasonably required to repair or replace the covered "auto." If "loss" is caused
by theft, this number of days is added to the number of days it takes to locate the covered "auto" and
return it to you, or
(b) 30 days.
(3) Our payment is limited to the lesser of the following amounts:
(a) Necessary and actual expenses incurred; or
(b) $75 per day.
(c) This coverage does not apply while there are spare or reserve "autos" available to you for your
operations.
(d) If "loss" results from the total theft of a covered "auto" of the private passenger or light truck type, we
will pay under this coverage only that amount of your rental reimbursement expense which is not
already provided for under the SECTION III – PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE, A. Coverage, 4.
Coverage Extensions, a. Transportation Expenses.
(Personal Effects Coverage)
e.
Personal Effects
If you have purchased Comprehensive
Coverage on this policy for an "auto" you own and that "auto" is
stolen, we will pay, without application of a deductible, up to $500 for Personal Effects stolen with the "auto".
The insurance provided under this provision is excess over any other collectible insurance. For this coverage
extension, Personal Effects means tangible property that is worn or carried by an "insured".
(Personal Property of Others)
f.
Personal Property of Others
We will pay up to $500 for loss to personal property of others in or on your covered "auto." This coverage
applies only in the event of "loss" to your covered "auto" caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft, mischief
or vandalism,
the covered
"auto's" collision
with another object, or the covered
"auto's" overturn.
No
deductibles apply to this coverage.
(Locksmith Coverage)
g.
Locksmith Coverage
We will pay up to $250 per occurrence for necessary locksmith services for keys locked inside a covered
private passenger "auto". The deductible is waived for these services.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
117 of 218

--- page 118 ---
CA 71 09 01 17
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
Page 5 of 7
(Vehicle Wrap Coverage)
h.
Vehicle Wrap Coverage
If you have Comprehensive or Collision coverage on an "auto" that is a total loss, in addition to the actual
cash value of the "auto", we will pay up to $1,000 for vinyl vehicle wraps which are displayed on the covered
"auto" at the time of total loss. Regardless of the number of autos deemed a total loss, the most we will pay
under this Vehicle Wrap Coverage for any one "loss" is $5,000.
For purposes of this coverage provision,
signs or other graphics painted or magnetically affixed to the vehicle are not considered vehicle wraps.
(Airbag Accidental Discharge)
F.
SECTION
III – PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE,
B. Exclusions
is amended at 3. to include the following
language:
If you have purchased Comprehensive
or Collision Coverage under this policy, this exclusion does not apply to
mechanical breakdown relating to the accidental discharge of an air bag. This coverage applies only to a covered
auto you own and is excess of any other collectible insurance or warranty. No deductible applies to this coverage.
G.
BROADENED LIMITS OF INSURANCE
(Audio, Visual and Data Electronic Equipment Coverage)
SECTION III – PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE – C. Limit of Insurance at 1.b. is amended to provide the following
limits:
b.
Limits of $1,000 per "loss" is increased to $5,000 per "loss". All other terms and provisions of this section
remain applicable.
(Auto Loan/Lease Total Loss Protection)
SECTION
III – PHYSICAL
DAMAGE COVERAGE
– C. Limit of Insurance
is amended by adding the following
language:
4.
In the event of a total "loss" to a covered "auto" shown in the Schedule pages, subject at the time of the "loss" to
a loan or lease, we will pay any unpaid amount due including up to a maximum of $500 for early termination fees
or penalties on the lease or loan for a covered"auto" less:
a.
The amount paid under the Physical Damage Coverage Section of the policy; and
b.
Any:
(1) Overdue lease / loan payments at the time of the "loss'';
(2) Financial penalties imposed under a lease for excessive use, abnormal wear and tear or high mileage;
(3) Security deposits not returned by the lessor;
(4) Costs for extended warranties, Credit Life Insurance, Health, Accident or Disability Insurance purchased
with the loan or lease; and
(5) Carry-over balances from previous loans or leases.
(Glass Repair  Deductible Amendment)
H.
GLASS REPAIR – DEDUCTIBLE
SECTION III – PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE – D. Deductible is amended by adding the following:
Any deductible shown in the Declarations as applicable to the covered "auto" will not apply to glass breakage if the
damaged glass is repaired, rather than replaced.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
118 of 218

--- page 119 ---
Page 6 of 7
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
CA 71 09 01 17
(Amended Duties in the Event of Accident, Claim, Suit or Loss)
I.
AMENDED DUTIES IN THE EVENT OF ACCIDENT, CLAIM, SUIT OR LOSS
Under SECTION IV – BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS,
A. Loss Conditions , the following is added to paragraph 2.
Duties In The Event of Accident, Suit or Loss:
d.
Knowledge of any "accident", "claim", "suit" or "loss" will be deemed knowledge by you when notice of such
"accident", "claim", "suit" or "loss" has been received by:
(1) You, if you are an individual;
(2) Any partner or insurance manager if you are a partnership;
(3) An executive officer or insurance manager, if you are a corporation;
(4) Your members, managers or insurance manager, if you are a limited liability company; or
(5) Your officials, trustees, board members or insurance manager, if you are a not-for-profit organization.
(Waiver of Subrogation by Contract)
J.
WAIVER OF SUBROGATION REQUIRED BY CONTRACT
Under SECTION
IV, BUSINESS
AUTO CONDITIONS,
A. Loss Conditions
5. Transfer of Rights of Recovery
Against Others to Us the following language is added:
However, we waive any rights of recovery we may have against the person or organization with whom you have
agreed in writing in a contract, agreement or permit, to provide insurance such as is afforded under the policy to
which this endorsement is attached. This provision does not apply unless the written contract or written agreement
has been executed, or permit has been issued, prior to the "bodily injury" or "property damage."
(Unintentional Failure to Disclose)
K.
UNINTENTIONAL FAILURE TO DISCLOSE
Under
SECTION
IV – BUSINESS
AUTO
CONDITIONS,
B. General
Conditions , the following
is added to 2.
Concealment, Misrepresentation Or Fraud:
Your unintentional error in disclosing, or failing to disclose, any material fact existing at the effective date of this
Coverage Form, or during the policy period in connection
with any additional hazards, will not prejudice your rights
under this Coverage
Form.
(Hired, Leased, Rented or Borrowed Auto Physical Damage)
L.
HIRED, LEASED, RENTED OR BORROWED AUTO PHYSICAL DAMAGE
Under SECTION IV – BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS B. General Conditions 5. Other Insurance Paragraph 5.b. is
replaced by the following:
b.
(1) For "Comprehensive" and "Collision" Auto Physical Damage coverage provided by this endorsement, the
following are deemed to be covered "autos" you own:
(a) Any Covered "auto" you lease, hire, rent or borrow; and
(b) Any Covered
"auto" hired
or rented
by your "employee"
under a contract
in that individual
"employee's" name, with your permission, while performing duties related to the conduct of your
business.
However, any "auto" that is leased, hired, rented or borrowed with a driver is not a covered "auto"
(2) Limit of Insurance For This Section
The most we will pay for any one "loss" is the lesser of the following:
(a) $75,000 per accident, or
(b) actual cash value at the time of loss, or
(c) cost of repair.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
119 of 218

--- page 120 ---
CA 71 09 01 17
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission.
Page 7 of 7
Minus a $500 deductible.
An adjustment
for depreciation
and physical condition
will be made in
determining actual cash value in the event of a total loss. No deductible applies to "loss" caused by fire
or lightning.
(3) This Hired Auto Physical Damage coverage is excess over any other collectible insurance.
(4) Definitions For This Section
(a) Comprehensive Coverage: from any cause except the covered "auto's" collision with another object
or the covered "auto's" overturn. We will pay glass breakage, "loss" caused by hitting a bird or animal
and, "loss" caused by falling objects or missiles.
(b) Collision Coverage: caused by the covered "auto's" collision with another object or by the covered
"auto's" overturn.
(Mental Anguish)
M. MENTAL ANGUISH
Under SECTION V – DEFINITIONS, C. is replaced by the following:
C. "Bodily injury" means bodily injury, sickness or disease sustained by a person including mental anguish or death
resulting from bodily injury, sickness, or disease.
(Extended Cancellation Condition)
N. EXTENDED CANCELLATION CONDITION
Under CANCELLATION, of the COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS form, item 2.b. is replaced by the following:
b.
60 days before the effective date of cancellation if we cancel for any other reason.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
120 of 218

--- page 121 ---
INSURED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This endorsement changes the policy to which it is attached and is effective on the date issued unless otherwise stated. 
(The information below is required only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation of the policy.)  
Endorsement Effective 
 
Policy No. 
 
Endorsement No. 
 
Insured 
 
Premium $ 
 
Insurance Company 
 
 
Countersigned By 
WPL 5046584 01      
02/17/2020
INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE WEST                     
GREENER ENVIRONMENTS INC           
INCL.
   
WC 99 06 34 
(Ed. 8-00) 
WORKERS COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYERS LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY 
WC 99 06 34 
 
 
(Ed. 8-00) 
 
 
WAIVER OF OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER FROM OTHERS ENDORSEMENT - BLANKET 
 
 
We have the right to recover our payments from anyone liable for an injury covered by this policy.  We will not enforce 
our right against the person or organization named in the Schedule.  (This agreement applies only to the extent that 
you perform work under a written contract that requires you to obtain this agreement from us). 
 
The additional premium for this endorsement shall be 
 % of the total California Workers’ Compensation premium 
otherwise due. 
 
Schedule 
 
 
 
Person or Organization 
 
 
Job Description 
 
 
  2
ANY PERSON/ORG      
ALL CA OPERATIONS   
WHEN REQUIRED BY    
WRITTEN CONTRACT    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 742A8068-FDAA-4D91-81A0-17AB35A9080C
121 of 218

--- page 122 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 742A8068FDAA4D9181A017AB35A9080C
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: Agreement for Services - Tree Planting 2020-2021
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 27
Signatures: 3
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Linda Chang
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
lchang@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98     
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             9/17/2020 10:17:22 PM
Holder: Linda Chang
             lchang@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Luke Huskey
luke@wildbloomlandscapes.com
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 47.6.182.239
Sent: 9/17/2020 10:36:01 PM
Viewed: 9/18/2020 8:35:08 AM 
Signed: 9/18/2020 1:27:01 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 9/18/2020 8:35:08 AM
      ID: 82cabad8-e683-41a3-8724-00d1a1a53f3f
Gabrielle Whelan
gwhelan@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 73.93.152.130
Sent: 9/18/2020 1:27:04 PM
Viewed: 9/18/2020 1:34:57 PM 
Signed: 9/18/2020 1:35:42 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 9/18/2020 1:34:57 PM
      ID: 7a2d1389-7ef1-402d-bfa8-1232c5209e72
Sheila Canzian
canzian@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 76.14.0.98
Sent: 9/18/2020 1:35:44 PM
Viewed: 9/18/2020 2:34:49 PM 
Signed: 9/18/2020 2:35:17 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 9/18/2020 2:34:49 PM
      ID: f0007b77-510f-4812-8e4d-f78420e72ec0
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
122 of 218

--- page 123 ---
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Matthew Fried
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 9/18/2020 2:35:20 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
9/18/2020 2:35:20 PM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
9/18/2020 2:35:20 PM
Signing Complete
Security Checked
9/18/2020 2:35:20 PM
Completed
Security Checked
9/18/2020 2:35:20 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure
123 of 218

--- page 124 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Luke Huskey, Gabrielle Whelan, Sheila Canzian
124 of 218

--- page 125 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically
125 of 218

--- page 126 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.
 
126 of 218

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3642
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Classification Updates – Community Development Department
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the reclassification of the Business Systems Analyst II to a Senior Business Systems Analyst 
and revisions to the job specification for the classification of Senior Business Systems Analyst.
BACKGROUND:
Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), classification updates become effective upon approval by the City 
Council.
Reclassify the Business Systems Analyst II in CDD to a Senior Business Systems Analyst and Update the Job Specification 
Business Systems Analyst Phil Kawakami is responsible for leading technology projects utilized by the Community 
Development Department and other departments relating to development review and associated operations for both 
internal and public-facing functionality. A classification study conducted by Bryce Consulting found that Mr. Kawakami is 
performing duties consistent with the Senior Business Systems Analyst classification. Consequently, the Department is 
requesting to reclassify Mr. Kawakami to a Senior Business Systems Analyst in order to better reflect the level of his duties 
and responsibilities, and to revise the job specification for Senior Business Systems Analyst so that it can be used Citywide. 
Mr. Kawakami will be placed at Step 3 of the salary range at $11,066.05 per month. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The reallocation of the Business Systems Analyst to a Senior Business Systems Analyst results in approximately $9,000 
additional cost for the remainder of this fiscal year, split 30% in the General Fund and 70% in the Construction Services 
Fund. If approved, the associated salary and benefits for the Senior Business Systems Analyst will be incorporated into next 
year’s 2021-22 operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit 1 – Job Specification
Att 2 – Job Specification with tracked changes
127 of 218

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
128 of 218

--- page 129 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2020)
CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of classifications and related job 
specifications and salary schedules, reclassification of employees, modification to job specifications and abolishment 
of an existing classification must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes are as detailed below:

Reclassify the current Business Systems Analyst II in Community Development Department to the classification 
of Senior Business Systems Analyst, and;

Revise the job specification for the classification of Senior Business Systems Analyst.
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have reviewed the proposed 
changes and have not brought forth any objections or concerns; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that the following 
classification updates are approved:
1.
The reclassification of the Business Systems Analyst II in CDD to Senior Business Systems Analyst, and;
2.
The revisions to the job specification for the classification of Senior Business Systems Analyst attached as 
Exhibit 1. 
129 of 218

--- page 130 ---
Exhibit 1
SENIOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST 
DEFINITION
To serve as project manager for implementing, guiding the integration of, and coordinating enhancements of 
applications and systems within an operating department; to analyze and document business needs for major 
business applications; to serve as project manager for department information technology projects; to aid in 
managing the selection and implementation of future law enforcement technology; to conduct research and 
make recommendations on potential systems and applications related to department operations; to oversee the 
design and/or implementation of new technologies; to provide guidance and assistance to department staff on 
systems and applications; and perform related work as required.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This is an advanced journey level, single position classification that is responsible for systems analysis, strategic 
planning, selection and project management for business software programs and related systems for the and 
operating department. The position is expected to work in cross-functional collaboration with department 
management and Information Technology staff to find proactive, strategic solutions for issues that arise to meet 
the business goals of a complex public safety environment. The incumbent of this class is highly skilled in 
systems analysis and serves in a senior capacity on major system design, data analysis, and implementation 
projects. This class works in specialized systems design with public safety systems and programs. Work 
assignments are received in general terms where there is considerable latitude for independent judgment and 
initiative as to the method of approach and solution to the problem. The Senior Business Systems Analyst may 
supervise, train, and provide guidance to professional, technical and administrative staff. This class is 
distinguished from the Business Systems Analyst I/II by the complexity of work performed and the ability to 
supervise others with complex assignments.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives general direction from higher level department personnel. 
May supervise professional, technical and administrative personnel.
EXAMPLES OF ESSENTIAL DUTIES – Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Work with department management, Information Technology, and other areas and disciplines throughout the 
organization to ensure customer support needs are addressed as efficiently and effectively as possible.
130 of 218

--- page 131 ---
Perform project management functions including: coordinate business needs discovery, requirements gathering 
and requirements analysis; plan, organize and review the functional design of applications and systems; develop 
reports; oversee the implementation of applications; conduct systems and applications testing; coordinate roll out 
to production; and generate required end user documentation.
Plan and facilitate meetings and presentations. Author, compile and generate complex reports including 
staff reports as required, and if necessary, present to City Council.
Monitor and communicate budgetary needs related to public safety technology.
Coordinate projects with department activities and report to department management. Help build 
relationships with various internal and external entities.
Assist with strategic planning related to technology and software to support department operations.
Supervise the work of professional, technical and/or administrative staff assigned to systems 
implementation projects.
Provide guidance and assistance to staff and department users in the planning and implementation of 
systems and applications.
Ensure delivery of public safety technology solutions and services supporting the assigned department’s strategic 
direction and/or technology roadmap(s).
When assigned to the Police Department, work with Police Communications managers to ensure 
requirements for technology in the Emergency Communications Center are defined and documented. 
Work with Information Technology to ensure system requirements, including network stability, are met.
When assigned to the Police Department, work with Emergency Preparedness Manager to plan for and document 
proper maintenance for Emergency Operations Center technology. 
Facilitate the deployment of technology projects specific to the operating department. 
Establish best practices to be followed by departmental personnel.
Plan and coordinate processes required for public safety applications and systems. 
Work with stakeholders to develop and implement plans for major technology 
upgrades.
Survey and analyze major existing or proposed systems in complex application areas; confer with department 
staff to determine system functions, procedures, desired results and problem definition.
Conduct feasibility studies, prepare reports of time estimates, personnel requirements and progress on assigned 
projects and reduce design projects into component analysis tasks.
Assist in the development and monitoring of the unit budget.
Assist in developing the unit's goals and objectives, work plan, and strategic planning.
Ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory and judicial mandates, regulations and professional standards.
131 of 218

--- page 132 ---
Provide technical guidance; plan, direct and review the work of staff members of assigned projects; may review 
and evaluate programs, procedures, and input forms for uniformity and consistency of format.
Monitor changes and developments in business processes and systems by attending seminars, conferences and 
lectures, and by reviewing professional literature; evaluate their application to department activities and 
recommend implementation.
Perform related duties as assigned.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Information technology capabilities and characteristics including software applications, data base 
technology, GIS, web technologies and data security techniques.
Systems and network capabilities and characteristics.
The application of security practices and procedures relevant to business applications.
Complex and inter-connected systems, their design, deployment, support, and initial issue 
diagnosis. Software specific to assigned operating department. 
Business application systems, including conceptual understanding of various components, while 
engaging both sides of the spectrum – internal business/architects and external Information 
Technology engineers/support staff.
The future direction of business applications and systems, how that direction will impact 
departments, and how future and current systems can be utilized for the benefit of the 
departments.
Relevant business processes and technical issues, and their implication to the 
organization. Principles and practices of project management.
Principles and practices of supervision, training, leadership and 
motivation. Software application design as applied.
Methods and techniques of systems and procedures analyses, application software 
development, computer programming, systems scheduling/utilization, data processing 
procedures and controls, in a public safety environment.
Ability to:
Effectively communicate with various levels of personnel and convey technical and non-technical 
information to management and executive staff in different departments, inter-agency, internal and 
external stakeholders and partners.
When assigned to the Police Department, liaise with police emergency communication centers to 
ensure maximum reliability and effective use of technology.
Develop and evaluate business processes and strategies that support department’s business goals and 
objectives in a cost-effective method.
132 of 218

--- page 133 ---
Simultaneously manage multiple technology projects.
Be self-motivated and work independently, with minimal supervision.
Employ effective analytical, consulting, negotiating, and meeting facilitation 
skills. Lead projects and drive them to completion on time and within budget.
Provide excellent customer service; communicate effectively and respectfully to a diverse 
community.
Supervise staff engaged in testing, implementation and/or design of business systems and 
applications.
Experience and Education:
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and abilities 
would be qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
A minimum of 3 years of experience managing major application implementation projects and/or 
functional oversight of moderate to large scale technology systems, with at least 2 years 
supervisory or management experience. When assigned to the Police Department, technology 
experience in public safety or government sector is highly desirable.
Education:
Equivalent to a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with course 
work in Information Technology or a related field.
License or Certificate:
Possession of a valid State of California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as required.
When assigned to the Police Department, a successful candidate must be willing to submit to a personal 
background investigation as required by the Police Department.
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following abilities and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites and locations.
ADOPTED CC:
2-19-19
REVISED CC:
10-5-20
FORMER TITLES:
BARGAINING UNIT:
MANAGEMENT UNIT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2038
ABOLISHED:
133 of 218

--- page 134 ---
SENIOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST – POLICE 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To serve as project manager for implementing, guiding the integration of, and coordinating enhancements of 
public safety applications and systems within an operating department; to analyze and document business needs 
for major law enforcement business applications; to serve as project manager for Police Departmentdepartment 
information technology projects; to aid in managing the selection and implementation of future law enforcement 
technology; to conduct research and make recommendations on potential public safety systems and applications 
related to department operations; to supervise oversee the design and/or implementation of new technologies; to 
provide guidance and assistance to Police Ddepartment staff on systems and applications; and perform related 
work as required. 
 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
This is an advanced journey level, single position classification that is responsible for systems analysis, strategic 
planning, selection and project management for business software programs and related systems for the Police 
Departmenand operating departmentt. The position is expected to work in cross-functional collaboration with 
Police department management and Information Technology staff to find proactive, strategic solutions for issues 
that arise to meet the business goals of a complex public safety environment. The incumbent of this class is 
highly skilled in systems analysis and serves in a senior capacity on major system design, data analysis, and 
implementation projects. This class works in specialized systems design with public safety systems and programs. 
Work assignments are received in general terms where there is considerable latitude for independent judgment 
and initiative as to the method of approach and solution to the problem. The Senior Business Systems Analyst 
may supervise, train, and provide guidance to professional, technical and administrative staff. This class is 
distinguished from the Business Systems Analyst I/II by the complexity of work performed and the ability to 
supervise others with complex assignments. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Receives general direction from higher level department personnel. 
May supervise professional, technical and administrative personnel. 
EXAMPLES OF ESSENTIAL DUTIES – Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Work with Public Safetydepartment management, Information Technology, and other areas and disciplines 
throughout the organization to ensure Public Safety customer support needs are addressed as efficiently and 
effectively as possible. 
134 of 218

--- page 135 ---
Perform project management functions including: coordinate business needs discovery, requirements gathering 
and requirements analysis; plan, organize and review the functional design of applications and systems; develop 
reports; oversee the implementation of applications; conduct systems and applications testing; coordinate roll out 
to production; and generate required end user documentation. 
 
Plan and facilitate meetings and presentations. Author, compile and generate complex reports including staff 
reports as required, and if necessary present to City Council. 
 
Monitor and communicate budgetary needs related to public safety technology. 
 
Coordinate projects with department activities and report to Public Safetydepartment management. 
Help build relationships with various internal and external entities. 
 
Assist with strategic planning related to technology and software to support Public Safetydepartment operations. 
 
Supervise the work of professional, technical and/or administrative staff assigned to systems implementation 
projects. 
 
Provide guidance and assistance to staff and department users in the planning and implementation of systems 
and applications. 
 
Ensure delivery of public safety technology solutions and services supporting Public Safety'sthe assigned 
department’s strategic direction and/or technology roadmap(s). 
 
When assigned to the Police Department, Wwork with Police Communications managers to ensure 
requirements for technology in the Emergency Communications Center are defined and documented.  
 
Work with Information Technology to ensure these system requirements, including network stability, are 
met. 
 
When assigned to the Police Department, Wwork with Emergency Preparedness Manager to plan for and 
document proper maintenance for Emergency Operations Center technology. Work with Information Technology 
to ensure these requirements are met. 
 
Facilitate the deployment of technology projects specific to the Police Departmentoperating department.  
Establish best practices to be followed by Police Departmentdepartmental 
personnel. 
Plan and coordinate processes required for public safety applications and systems. 
Work with stakeholders to develop and implement plans for major technology upgrades. 
Survey and analyze major existing or proposed systems in complex application areas; confer with public 
safetydepartment staff to determine system functions, procedures, desired results and problem definition. 
 
Conduct feasibility studies, prepare reports of time estimates, personnel requirements and progress on assigned 
projects and reduce design projects into component analysis tasks. 
 
Assist in the development and monitoring of the unit budget. 
 
Assist in developing the unit's goals and objectives, work plan, and strategic planning. 
 
Ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory and judicial mandates, regulations and professional standards. 
Provide technical guidance; plan, direct and review the work of staff members of assigned projects; may review 
135 of 218

--- page 136 ---
and evaluate programs, procedures, and input forms for uniformity and consistency of format. 
 
Monitor changes and developments in the field of public safetybusiness processes and systems by attending 
seminars, conferences and lectures, and by reviewing professional literature; evaluate their application to 
department activities and recommend implementation. 
 
Perform related duties as assigned. 
 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 
Knowledge of: 
Information technology capabilities and characteristics including software applications, data base 
technology, GIS, web technologies and data security techniques related to public safety. 
 
Systems and network capabilities and characteristics. 
 
The application of security practices and procedures relevant to Public Safetybusiness applications 
systems. 
 
Complex and inter-connected systems, their design, deployment, support, and initial issue diagnosis. 
Software specific to assigned operating department. Public Safety software such as Computer Aided 
Dispatch (CAD) and other justice and safety systems. Emergency Operations Center from a technology 
perspective. 
Public SafetyBusiness application systems, including conceptual understanding of various components, 
while engaging both sides of the spectrum – internal business/architects and external Information 
Technology engineers/support staff. 
 
The future direction of public safetybusiness applications and systems, how that direction will impact 
the department(s), and how future and current systems can be utilized for the benefit of the 
department(s). 
 
Relevant business processes and technical issues, and their implication to the organization. 
Principles and practices of project management. 
Principles and practices of supervision, training, leadership and motivation. 
Software application design as applied to public safety uses. 
Methods and techniques of systems and procedures analyses, application software development, 
computer programming, systems scheduling/utilization, data processing procedures and controls, in a 
public safety environment. 
 
Ability to: 
Effectively communicate with various levels of personnel and convey technical and non-technical 
information to management and executive staff in different departments, inter-agency, internal and 
external stakeholders and partners. 
 
When assigned to the Police Department, Lliaise with police emergency communication centers to ensure 
maximum reliability and effective use of technology. 
 
Develop and evaluate business processes and strategies that support Public Safety'sdepartment’s business 
136 of 218

--- page 137 ---
goals and objectives in a cost-effective method. 
 
Simultaneously manage multiple technology projects. 
 
Be self-motivated and work independently, with minimal supervision. 
 
Employ effective analytical, consulting, negotiating, and meeting facilitation skills. 
Lead Public Safety projects and drive them to completion on time and within budget. 
Provide excellent customer service; communicate effectively and respectfully to a diverse community. 
 
Supervise staff engaged in testing, implementation and/or design of public safetybusiness  systems and 
applications. 
 
Experience and Education: 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and abilities would 
be qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Experience: 
A minimum of 3 years of experience managing major application implementation projects and/or 
functional oversight of moderate to large scale technology systems, with at least 2 years supervisory or 
management experience. When assigned to the Police Department, Ttechnology experience in public 
safety or government sector is highly desirable. 
 
Education: 
Equivalent to a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with course work in 
Information Technology or a related field. 
 
License or Certificate: 
Possession of a valid State of California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as required. 
 
When assigned to the Police Department, Aa successful candidate must be willing to submit to a personal 
background investigation as required by the Police Department. 
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following abilities and work environment: 
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites and locations. 
ADOPTED CC: 
2-19-19 
REVISED CC: 
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT: 
MANAGEMENT UNIT 
FLSA: 
EXEMPT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: MANAGEMENT 
DOT: 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
NO 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
YES 
FORM 700: 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
2038 
ABOLISHED: 
137 of 218

--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3659
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Housing Element Preparation – Collaboration Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for collaboration on preparation of the Housing Element of the 
General Plan in the amount of $12,500 and authorize Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Under California law, every jurisdiction in the State is required to update the Housing Element of its General Plan every 
eight years and have it certified by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). The 
deadline for the current cycle of updates in the Bay Area is January 2023, with the adopted plan covering the years 2023-
2031. 21 Elements is an ongoing collaboration between the 21 jurisdictions of San Mateo County to collectively address 
our region’s housing needs through shared learning, collaboration, and coordinated action. The effort has been underway 
for over a decade and has been recognized statewide as a best practice for housing planning and policy. Since its inception, 
21 Elements has provided technical assistance, group facilitation, communications, and shared resources in addition to 
engaging with HCD, the region, and other partners. In the previous cycle of housing element updates, covering the 2014 – 
2022 period, 21 Elements provided a set of optional support services for member jurisdictions, helping ensure that all 
jurisdictions’ elements were certified by HCD. A similar approach is being offered for this cycle.
Goals 
The proposed services, like 21 Elements overall, strive to achieve cost efficiencies through shared work effort as well as 
greater effectiveness through shared learning and coordinated action, while continuing to ensure tailored housing policies 
and plans for each jurisdiction. The tasks have been designed to help participating jurisdictions effectively and efficiently 
update their Housing Element to meet State law requirements within the State-mandated schedule. The services are 
structured around those requirements to achieve five overarching goals:

Build-Upon Past Accomplishments. As with previous Housing Element cycles, provide baseline data on housing 
needs and barriers and best practices (model policies, programs, and implementing tools) tailored to San Mateo 
County. In addition, create easy-to-use materials for facilitating effective community dialogue on housing 
challenges and opportunities, and build upon recent collaboration efforts on ADUs, the affordable housing 
nexus study, and related work.

Achieve High Quality Housing Elements While Saving Money, Time, and Resources. The services are designed to 
save money by minimizing duplication of effort, including collaboration on early analysis of available sites and 
potential strategies for expanding site inventories as well as shared work around countywide analyses, data 
templates, and model practices. These services make it easier to complete key tasks while improving the quality 
138 of 218

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of outcomes.

Continue the Constructive Working Relationship with HCD. Feedback from previous update cycles underscored 
that collaboration with HCD was extremely helpful in achieving housing element certification. HCD also reports 
that early collaboration facilitated its review and made for higher quality housing elements in San Mateo 
County.

Enable Jurisdictions to Meet the January 2023 Deadline. Recognizing that the increased Regional Housing Needs 
Allocation (RHNA) targets combined with increased scrutiny related to the site inventory will make this update 
cycle particularly challenging, the proposed services focus on getting an early start to the sites analysis so that 
the update and implementation of needed rezoning and other regulatory changes can be completed in a timely 
manner.

Tailor a Range of Choices to Best Fit Jurisdiction Needs. As in the previous round of updates, each jurisdiction 
can choose the packages of service that best fit its needs while leveraging the benefits of ongoing collaboration. 
21 Elements Service Packages
There are four service packages being offered and staff is recommending opting in for the Base and Foundation Packages 
for the City of San Mateo. The City has hired Diana Elrod Consulting to provide consulting services for the overall 
preparation of the Housing Element and therefore does not require the other services offered by 21 Elements.
BASE Package - General Support for RHNA 6 and Housing Element Updates. These services support cross-jurisdictional 
learning, coordination, collaboration, and problem-solving for the duration of the housing element process through 
regular meetings, countywide analyses, best practice research, and shared data and communications tools. These 
services cover the period from August 2020 through January 2023. The cost is $2,500 per jurisdiction, with an additional 
$8,500 per jurisdiction covered through the existing 21 Elements contract. 
FOUNDATIONS Package – Housing Needs and Constraints; Focused Support. These services will support participating 
jurisdictions with foundational work toward updating the Housing Element: evaluate the existing element in relation to 
recent State law requirements; develop the key sections of the Housing Element; and refine the work program and 
schedule related to community engagement, rezoning and other actions, as needed, to achieve a certified element. This 
work will start in Fall 2020 and run through June 2021. The cost for our participation in this package is $10,000, with an 
additional $4,000 covered through the existing 21 Elements contract. 
Contracting 
Consistent with the overall contract structure for 21 Elements, the City will sign a Collaboration Agreement with the San 
Mateo County Department of Housing (“DOH”) (Attachment 1).  Concurrently with execution of the Collaboration 
Agreement, DOH will execute an agreement with Baird + Driskell (Attachment 2) for the provision of these services. 
Payment will be made to the County, which will then serve as master payee and contract manager. 
Staff is recommending that the City of San Mateo continue to partner with 21 Elements and other cities in San Mateo 
County to produce our Housing Element. Similar to previous cycles, this will save us time and money, and focus on 
adopting best practices that are appropriate for the City of San Mateo. Specifically, the County is coordinating the effort 
and asking all cities to sign a Collaboration Agreement. All 21 Jurisdictions have indicated they intend to continue 
participating. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed agreement has no impact to the City's General Fund. There are sufficient funds in the General Plan 
Maintenance Fund (Fund 25) to cover the cost of the agreement. Staff anticipates use of Local Early Action Planning Grant 
Program (LEAP) from the State of California to reimburse Fund 25 for the Housing Element Update. The grant application 
was submitted in July 2020 and funds should be available in Fall 2020. 
139 of 218

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Collaboration Agreement Among County of San Mateo and Various Cities
Att 2 - Agreement Between the County of San Mateo and Baird + Driskell Community Planning
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
140 of 218

--- page 141 ---
COLLABORATION AGREEMENT
AMONG
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
AND
VARIOUS CITIES
FOR
THE 6TH CYCLE OF THE REGIONAL HOUSING NEEDS ALLOCATION 
THIS AGREEMENT, entered this [___]  day of [___] , 2020 by and among the County of San 
Mateo (herein called the “County”), and the following:
Town of Atherton, (herein called “Atherton”);
City of Belmont, (herein called “Belmont”);
City of Brisbane, (herein called “Brisbane”);
City of Burlingame, (herein called “Burlingame”);
Town of Colma, (herein called “Colma”);
City Daly City, (herein called “Daly City”);
City of East Palo Alto, (herein called “East Palo Alto”);
City of Foster City, (herein called “Foster City”);
City of Half Moon Bay, (herein called “Half Moon Bay”);
Town of Hillsborough, (herein called “Hillsborough”);
City of Menlo Park, (herein called “Menlo Park”);
City of Millbrae, (herein called “Millbrae”);
City of Pacifica, (herein called “Pacifica”);
Town of Portola Valley, (herein called “Portola Valley”);
City of Redwood City, (herein called “Redwood City”);
City of San Bruno, (herein called “San Bruno”);
City of San Carlos, (herein called “San Carlos”);
City of San Mateo City, (herein called “San Mateo”); 
City of South San Francisco, (herein called “South San Francisco”); and
Town of Woodside, (herein called “Woodside”)
(collectively referred as “Participants”).
WHEREAS, California State law mandates that all California cities, towns, and counties plan for 
the housing needs of their residents;
141 of 218

--- page 142 ---
WHEREAS, the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) 
determines the total number of new homes that need to be built, and level of affordability of the 
new homes, in order to meet the housing needs in each region of California, which is called the 
Regional Housing Needs Determination (RHND);  
WHEREAS, the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) receives the RHND from HCD 
for the Bay Area region, including San Mateo County, and further distributes the Regional 
Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) to each city and county in the Bay Area;
WHEREAS, ABAG will soon assign each of the Participants their respective portions of the Bay 
Area region RHND; 
WHEREAS, each jurisdiction plans for its housing needs through its Housing Element, a part of 
their General Plan; 
WHEREAS, Participants must submit to HCD their Housing Elements before January 2023; 
WHEREAS, Baird + Driskell Community Planning (“Baird + Driskell”) has offered a package 
of planning services to support cities and the County in their preparation and submittal of their 
Housing Elements;
WHEREAS, Participants wish to contract with Baird + Driskell for such services;
WHEREAS, concurrently with this Agreement, County will enter into an agreement with Baird 
+ Driskell “Agreement Between The County of San Mateo and Baird + Driskell Community 
Planning” (“Baird + Driskell Agreement”) for these services to Participants and Participants has 
elected to receive varied levels of service under the Baird + Driskell Agreement; and
WHEREAS, Participants are entering into this Agreement in order to set forth the Participants’ 
respective obligations for payment to Baird + Driskell and for contract administration and 
management under the Baird and Driskell Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Participants agree as follows: 
1. Services and Activities.  
The services under the Baird + Driskell Agreement will be performed by Baird + Driskell 
under contract with, and under the supervision of, County. The scope of RHNA-related 
services under the Baird + Driskell Agreement (“RHNA Services”) for each Participant 
shall be as set forth in Exhibit A of the Baird + Driskell Agreement.
 
2. Payments.  
A.
Each Participant agrees to provide payment to County for the direct costs of the 
RHNA Services as set forth in Exhibit A (Distribution of Payment) of this Agreement 
within one month of receipt of fully-executed copy of this Collaboration Agreement.  Such 
direct costs shall include the costs incurred by County as payments to Baird + Driskell for 
RHNA Services. Total payment to County by Participants shall not exceed $816,500, 
comprised of the following not to exceed amounts from each Participant: $48,500 from 
142 of 218

--- page 143 ---
Atherton; $11,500 from Belmont; $48,500 from Brisbane; $15,500 from Burlingame; 
$18,500 from Colma;  $61,500 from Daly City; $54,500 from East Palo Alto; $54,500 from 
Foster City; $54,500 from Half Moon Bay; $48,500 from Hillsborough; $54,500 from 
Menlo Park; $54,500 from Millbrae; $54,500 from Pacifica; $48,500 from Portola Valley; 
$21,500 from Redwood City; $54,500 from San Bruno; $2,500 from San Carlos; $12,500 
from San Mateo; $24,500 from County; $61,500 from South San Francisco, and; $11,500 
from Woodside. 
B.
Participants shall send payments to the following address:
San Mateo County Department of Housing
264 Harbor Blvd. Bldg. A
Belmont, CA 94002
Attn: Babs Deffenderfer
C.
Baird + Driskell will supply invoices in a format necessary to meet requirements 
set forth in S.B. 2, Chapter 364, Part 2 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code (Ca. 
2017).
D.
County will submit quarterly expense summaries to Participants detailing RHNA 
Services expenditures. 
  
3. Relationship of the Participants.  
The parties will cooperate and undertake activities in their mutual interest, but it is 
understood and agreed that this Cooperation Agreement is by and among Independent 
Contractor(s) and is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, create the relationship 
of agent, servant, employee, partnership, joint venture or association, or any other 
relationship whatsoever other than that of Independent Contractors. 
 4. Contract Term. 
This Collaboration Agreement shall be in effect as of August 1, 2020 and shall terminate 
on January 31, 2023, unless terminated earlier by the Participants. The parties may extend, 
renew or amend the terms hereof, by mutual agreement in writing and signed by the 
parties.  
 
 
 
 
THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID UNTIL SIGNED BY ALL PARTIES
REST OF PAGE DELIBERATELY LEFT BLANK
 
143 of 218

--- page 144 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have 
affixed their hands. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
Raymond Hodges, Director, Department of Housing, County of San Mateo 
 
 
Date:  
144 of 218

--- page 145 ---
TOWN OF ATHERTON
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
145 of 218

--- page 146 ---
CITY OF BELMONT
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
146 of 218

--- page 147 ---
CITY OF BRISBANE
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
147 of 218

--- page 148 ---
CITY OF BURLINGAME
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
148 of 218

--- page 149 ---
TOWN OF COLMA
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
149 of 218

--- page 150 ---
CITY OF DALY CITY
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
150 of 218

--- page 151 ---
CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
151 of 218

--- page 152 ---
CITY OF FOSTER CITY
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
152 of 218

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF HALF MOON BAY
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
153 of 218

--- page 154 ---
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
154 of 218

--- page 155 ---
CITY OF MENLO PARK
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
155 of 218

--- page 156 ---
CITY OF MILLBRAE
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
156 of 218

--- page 157 ---
CITY OF PACIFICA
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
157 of 218

--- page 158 ---
TOWN PORTOLA VALLEY
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
158 of 218

--- page 159 ---
CITY OF REDWOOD CITY
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
159 of 218

--- page 160 ---
CITY OF SAN BRUNO
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
160 of 218

--- page 161 ---
CITY OF SAN CARLOS
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
161 of 218

--- page 162 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
162 of 218

--- page 163 ---
CITY OF SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
163 of 218

--- page 164 ---
TOWN OF WOODSIDE
By:  ___________________________________
 
 Signature (blue ink only) 
 
 
Print Name: 
 ___________________________
 
 
 
 
Print Title: 
 _____________________________
 
 
 
 
Date:  _______________________
164 of 218

--- page 165 ---
Exhibit A
Distribution of Payment
The budget for each service package, tiered by city size, is summarized below. 
Small City
  Mid-Size City
Large City
County
Base Package
     $   2,500
$    2,500
$    2,500
$    2,500
Getting Started Package
$   9,000
$  13,000
$  19,000
$  19,000
Foundations Package
$   7,000
$    9,000
$  10,000
$    3,000
Full Package
$ 30,000
$  30,000
$  30,000
“All In”
  $ 48,500
  $  54,500
$  61,500
The table below indicates which cities are in each tier:
Small Cities
Mid-Size Cities
Large Cities
County
Atherton
Belmont
Daly City
San Mateo County
Brisbane
Burlingame
Redwood City
Colma
East Palo Alto
San Mateo City
Hillsborough
Foster City
South San Francisco
Portola Valley
Half Moon Bay
Woodside
Menlo Park
Millbrae
Pacifica
San Bruno
San Carlos
San Mateo County
The table below indicates the packages selected by participating cities:
Jurisdiction
Size
Base
Get Started
Foundations
Full
Cost
Atherton
Small
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$48,500
Belmont
Mid
Yes
No
Yes
No
$11,500
Brisbane
Small
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$48,500
Burlingame
Mid
Yes
Yes
No
No
$15,500
Colma
Small
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
$18,500
Daly City
Large
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$61,500
East Palo Alto
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
Foster City
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
Half Moon Bay
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
165 of 218

--- page 166 ---
Hillsborough
Small
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$48,500
Menlo Park
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
Millbrae
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
Pacifica
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
Portola Valley
Small
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$48,500
Redwood City
Large
Yes
Yes
No
No
$21,500
San Bruno
Mid
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$54,500
San Carlos
Mid
Yes
No
No
No
$2,500
San Mateo City
Large
Yes
No
Yes
No
$12,500
San Mateo County
County
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
$24,500
South San Francisco
Large
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
$61,500
Woodside
Small
Yes
Yes
No
No
$11,500
166 of 218

--- page 167 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 1
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL 
COMMUNITY PLANNING
This Agreement is entered into this ____ day of _____ 2020, by and between the County of San Mateo, a 
political subdivision of the state of California, hereinafter called “County,” and Baird + Driskell Community 
Planning, hereinafter called “Contractor.”
*
*
*
Whereas, pursuant to Section 31000 of the California Government Code, County may contract with 
independent contractors for the furnishing of such services to or for County or any Department thereof; 
and
Whereas, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor be retained for the purpose of providing planning 
services to support cities and towns within the County and the County in their preparation and submittal of 
their Housing Elements.
 Now, therefore, it is agreed by the parties to this Agreement as follows:
1.
Exhibits and Attachments
The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference:
Exhibit A—Services
Exhibit B—Payments and Rates
2.
Services to be performed by Contractor
In consideration of the payments set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit B, Contractor shall perform 
services for County in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications set forth in this 
Agreement and in Exhibit A.
3.
Payments
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit A, County shall make payment to Contractor 
based on the rates and in the manner specified in Exhibit B.  County reserves the right to withhold 
payment if County determines that the quantity or quality of the work performed is unacceptable. In no 
event shall County’s total fiscal obligation under this Agreement exceed Seven Hundred Seventy-Nine 
Thousand Five Hundred ($779,500). In the event that the County makes any advance payments, 
Contractor agrees to refund any amounts in excess of the amount owed by the County at the time of 
contract termination or expiration. 
167 of 218

--- page 168 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 2
4.
Term
Subject to compliance with all terms and conditions, the term of this Agreement shall be from August 1, 
2020, through January 31, 2023.
5.
Termination; Availability of Funds
This Agreement may be terminated by Contractor or by the Director of San Mateo County Department of 
Housing or his/her designee at any time without a requirement of good cause upon thirty (30) days’ 
advance written notice to the other party.  Subject to availability of funding, Contractor shall be entitled to 
receive payment for work/services provided prior to termination of the Agreement.  Such payment shall be 
that prorated portion of the full payment determined by comparing the work/services actually completed to 
the work/services required by the Agreement.
County may terminate this Agreement or a portion of the services referenced in the Attachments and 
Exhibits based upon the unavailability of Federal, State, or County funds by providing written notice to 
Contractor as soon as is reasonably possible after County learns of said unavailability of outside funding.
6.
Contract Materials
At the end of this Agreement, or in the event of termination, all finished or unfinished documents, data, 
studies, maps, photographs, reports, and other written materials (collectively referred to as “contract 
materials”) prepared by Contractor under this Agreement shall become the property of County and shall 
be promptly delivered to County.  Upon termination, Contractor may make and retain a copy of such 
contract materials if permitted by law.  
7.
Relationship of Parties
Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under this Agreement are 
performed as an independent contractor and not as an employee of County and that neither Contractor 
nor its employees acquire any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of County employees.
8.
Hold Harmless 
a.
General Hold Harmless
Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants 
from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description resulting from this Agreement, the 
performance of any work or services required of Contractor under this Agreement, or payments made 
pursuant to this Agreement brought for, or on account of, any of the following:  
(A) injuries to or death of any person, including Contractor or its employees/officers/agents; 
(B) damage to any property of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging; 
(C) any sanctions, penalties, or claims of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if 
applicable, with the requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all Federal regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended; or 
(D) any other loss or cost, including but not limited to that caused by the concurrent active or 
passive negligence of County and/or its officers, agents, employees, or servants.  However, 
168 of 218

--- page 169 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 3
Contractor’s duty to indemnify and save harmless under this Section shall not apply to injuries or 
damage for which County has been found in a court of competent jurisdiction to be solely liable 
by reason of its own negligence or willful misconduct.
The duty of Contractor to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall include the duty 
to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.
9.
Assignability and Subcontracting
Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion of it to a third party or subcontract with a third 
party to provide services required by Contractor under this Agreement without the prior written consent of 
County.  Any such assignment or subcontract without County’s prior written consent shall give County the 
right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement without penalty or advance notice.
10.
Insurance
a.
General Requirements
Contractor shall not commence work or be required to commence work under this Agreement unless and 
until all insurance required under this Section has been obtained and such insurance has been approved 
by County’s Risk Management, and Contractor shall use diligence to obtain such insurance and to obtain 
such approval.  Contractor shall furnish County with certificates of insurance evidencing the required 
coverage, and there shall be a specific contractual liability endorsement extending Contractor’s coverage 
to include the contractual liability assumed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement.  These certificates 
shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be given, in writing, to County of 
any pending change in the limits of liability or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.
b.
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance
Contractor shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement workers’ compensation and 
employer’s liability insurance providing full statutory coverage.  In signing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies, as required by Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, that (a) it is aware of the provisions of 
Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to be insured against liability for 
workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor 
Code, and (b) it will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work under this 
Agreement.
c.
Liability Insurance
Contractor shall take out and maintain during the term of this Agreement such bodily injury liability and 
property damage liability insurance as shall protect Contractor and all of its employees/officers/agents 
while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for damages for bodily injury, 
including accidental death, as well as any and all claims for property damage which may arise from 
Contractor’s operations under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Contractor, any 
subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or an agent of either of them.  
Such insurance shall be combined single limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and 
shall not be less than the amounts specified below:
169 of 218

--- page 170 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 4
☒
Comprehensive General Liability… 
$1,000,000 
(Applies to all agreements)
☐
Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance… 
$1,000,000 
(To be checked if motor vehicle used in performing services)
☐
Professional Liability……………….
$1,000,000 
(To be checked if Contractor is a licensed professional)
County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be named as additional insured on any 
such policies of insurance, which shall also contain a provision that (a) the insurance afforded thereby to 
County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be primary insurance to the full limits of 
liability of the policy and (b) if the County or its officers, agents, employees, and servants have other 
insurance against the loss covered by such a policy, such other insurance shall be excess insurance only.
In the event of the breach of any provision of this Section, or in the event any notice is received which 
indicates any required insurance coverage will be diminished or canceled, County, at its option, may, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, immediately declare a material 
breach of this Agreement and suspend all further work and payment pursuant to this Agreement.
11.
Compliance With Laws
All services to be performed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement shall be performed in accordance 
with all applicable Federal, State, County, and municipal laws, ordinances, and regulations, including but 
not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Federal 
Regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended (if applicable), the Business Associate requirements 
set forth in Attachment H (if attached), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in 
programs and activities receiving any Federal or County financial assistance.  Such services shall also be 
performed in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to 
appropriate licensure, certification regulations, provisions pertaining to confidentiality of records, and 
applicable quality assurance regulations.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement 
and any applicable State, Federal, County, or municipal law or regulation, the requirements of the 
applicable law or regulation will take precedence over the requirements set forth in this Agreement.  
Contractor will timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary documentation of 
compliance.
12.
Non-Discrimination and Other Requirements
a.
General Non-discrimination
No person shall be denied any services provided pursuant to this Agreement (except as limited by the 
scope of services) on the grounds of race, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability (physical or 
mental), sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or domestic partner status, religion, political 
beliefs or affiliation, familial or parental status (including pregnancy), medical condition (cancer-related), 
military service, or genetic information.
170 of 218

--- page 171 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 5
b.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Contractor shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards of recruitment, 
classification, selection, promotion, compensation, performance evaluation, and management relations 
for all employees under this Agreement.  Contractor’s equal employment policies shall be made available 
to County upon request.
c.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Contractor shall comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides 
that no otherwise qualified individual with a disability shall, solely by reason of a disability, be excluded 
from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in the performance of 
any services this Agreement.  This Section applies only to contractors who are providing services to 
members of the public under this Agreement.
d.
Compliance with County’s Equal Benefits Ordinance
With respect to the provision of benefits to its employees, Contractor shall comply with Chapter 2.84 of 
the County Ordinance Code, which prohibits contractors from discriminating in the provision of employee 
benefits between an employee with a domestic partner and an employee with a spouse.  In order to meet 
the requirements of Chapter 2.84, Contractor must certify which of the following statements is/are 
accurate:
☐
Contractor complies with Chapter 2.84 by offering the same benefits to its employees with spouses 
and its employees with domestic partners.
☐
Contractor complies with Chapter 2.84 by offering, in the case where the same benefits are not 
offered to its employees with spouses and its employees with domestic partners, a cash payment to 
an employee with a domestic partner that is equal to Contractor’s cost of providing the benefit to an 
employee with a spouse.
☒
Contractor is exempt from having to comply with Chapter 2.84 because it has no employees or does 
not provide benefits to employees’ spouses.
☐
Contractor does not comply with Chapter 2.84, and a waiver must be sought. 
e.
Discrimination Against Individuals with Disabilities
The nondiscrimination requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60-741.5(a) are incorporated into this Agreement as if 
fully set forth here, and Contractor and any subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 C.F.R. 
60–741.5(a).  This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability 
and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance 
in employment qualified individuals with disabilities.
f.
History of Discrimination
Contractor must check one of the two following options, and by executing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies that the option selected is accurate:
171 of 218

--- page 172 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 6
☒
No finding of discrimination has been issued in the past 365 days against Contractor by the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or any other 
investigative entity.
☐
Finding(s) of discrimination have been issued against Contractor within the past 365 days by the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or other 
investigative entity.  If this box is checked, Contractor shall provide County with a written explanation 
of the outcome(s) or remedy for the discrimination.
g.
Reporting; Violation of Non-discrimination Provisions
Contractor shall report to the County Manager the filing in any court or with any administrative agency of 
any complaint or allegation of discrimination on any of the bases prohibited by this Section of the 
Agreement or Section 11, above.  Such duty shall include reporting of the filing of any and all charges 
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or 
any other entity charged with the investigation or adjudication of allegations covered by this subsection 
within 30 days of such filing, provided that within such 30 days such entity has not notified Contractor that 
such charges are dismissed or otherwise unfounded.  Such notification shall include a general description 
of the circumstances involved and a general description of the kind of discrimination alleged (for example, 
gender-, sexual orientation-, religion-, or race-based discrimination).
Violation of the non-discrimination provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a breach of this 
Agreement and subject the Contractor to penalties, to be determined by the County Manager, including 
but not limited to the following:
i.
termination of this Agreement;
ii.
disqualification of the Contractor from being considered for or being awarded a County contract 
for a period of up to 3 years;
iii.
liquidated damages of $2,500 per violation; and/or
iv.
imposition of other appropriate contractual and civil remedies and sanctions, as determined by 
the County Manager.
To effectuate the provisions of this Section, the County Manager shall have the authority to offset all or 
any portion of the amount described in this Section against amounts due to Contractor under this 
Agreement or any other agreement between Contractor and County.
13.
Compliance with County Employee Jury Service Ordinance
Contractor shall comply with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code, which states that Contractor 
shall have and adhere to a written policy providing that its employees, to the extent they are full-time 
employees and live in San Mateo County, shall receive from the Contractor, on an annual basis, no fewer 
than five days of regular pay for jury service in San Mateo County, with jury pay being provided only for 
each day of actual jury service.  The policy may provide that such employees deposit any fees received 
for such jury service with Contractor or that the Contractor may deduct from an employee’s regular pay 
the fees received for jury service in San Mateo County.  By signing this Agreement, Contractor certifies 
that it has and adheres to a policy consistent with Chapter 2.85.  For purposes of this Section, if 
Contractor has no employees in San Mateo County, it is sufficient for Contractor to provide the following 
written statement to County:  “For purposes of San Mateo County’s jury service ordinance, Contractor 
certifies that it has no full-time employees who live in San Mateo County.  To the extent that it hires any 
172 of 218

--- page 173 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 7
such employees during the term of its Agreement with San Mateo County, Contractor shall adopt a policy 
that complies with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code.”  The requirements of Chapter 2.85 do 
not apply if this Agreement’s total value listed Section 3, above, is less than one-hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000), but Contractor acknowledges that Chapter 2.85’s requirements will apply if this 
Agreement is amended such that its total value meets or exceeds that threshold amount.
14.
Retention of Records; Right to Monitor and Audit
(a) Contractor shall maintain all required records relating to services provided under this Agreement for 
three (3) years after County makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and 
Contractor shall be subject to the examination and/or audit by County, a Federal grantor agency, and the 
State of California.
(b) Contractor shall comply with all program and fiscal reporting requirements set forth by applicable 
Federal, State, and local agencies and as required by County.
(c) Contractor agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to County, to any Federal or State department 
having monitoring or review authority, to County’s authorized representative, and/or to any of their 
respective audit agencies access to and the right to examine all records and documents necessary to 
determine compliance with relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to 
determine compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness 
of services performed.
15.
Merger Clause; Amendments
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement and incorporated by 
reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties to this Agreement and correctly states the rights, 
duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date.  In the event that any term, condition, 
provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or is 
inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit and/or 
Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the Agreement shall prevail.  Any prior 
agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this 
document are not binding.  All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed by 
the parties.
16.
Controlling Law; Venue
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms, the rights and duties of the parties under this Agreement, 
the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of this Agreement, and any other dispute of any 
nature arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without 
regard to its choice of law or conflict of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be 
venued either in the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of California.
17.
Notices
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted under this Agreement shall 
be deemed to be properly given when both:  (1) transmitted via facsimile to the telephone number listed 
below or transmitted via email to the email address listed below; and (2) sent to the physical address 
listed below by either being deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for 
173 of 218

--- page 174 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND BAIRD + DRISKELL COMMUNITY PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                Page 8
overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an established overnight courier that provides a tracking number 
showing confirmation of receipt.
In the case of County, to:
Name/Title:
Raymond Hodges, Director of Department of Housing
Address:
264 Harbor Blvd. Bldg. A, Belmont, CA 4002
Telephone:
(650) 802-3389
Email:
rhodges@smchousing.org
In the case of Contractor, to:
Name/Title:
Joshua Abrams, Principal 
Address:
2635 Benvenue Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704
Telephone:
(510) 761-6001
Email:
abrams@bdplanning.ocm
18.
Electronic Signature
If both County and Contractor wish to permit this Agreement and future documents relating to this 
Agreement to be digitally signed in accordance with California law and County’s Electronic Signature 
Administrative Memo, both boxes below must be checked.  Any party that agrees to allow digital 
signature of this Agreement may revoke such agreement at any time in relation to all future documents by 
providing notice pursuant to this Agreement.
For County:  ☒  If this box is checked by County, County consents to the use of electronic 
signatures in relation to this Agreement.
For Contractor:  ☒  If this box is checked by Contractor, Contractor consents to the use of 
electronic signatures in relation to this Agreement.
*
*
*
174 of 218

--- page 175 ---
Exhibit A
9
THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID UNTIL SIGNED BY ALL PARTIES. NO WORK WILL COMMENCE 
UNTIL THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT OR 
AUTHORIZED DESIGNEE.
For Contractor:
____________________________
Contractor Signature
_______________
Date
___________________________
Joshua Abrams
For County:
 
______________________________
Raymond Hodges
Director 
Department of Housing
County of San Mateo
______________
Date
_____________________________
Purchasing Agent Name (please print)
(Department Head or Authorized Designee) 
County of San Mateo
_____________________________
Purchasing Agent or Authorized Designee 
Job Title (please print)
County of San Mateo 
175 of 218

--- page 176 ---
Exhibit A
10
Exhibit A
Scope of Services
1. BASE Package - General Support for RHNA 6 and Housing Element Updates
Overview
Support cross-jurisdictional learning, coordination, collaboration and problem-
solving for the duration of the housing element process through regular meetings, 
countywide analyses, best practice research, and shared data and communications 
tools.
Timing 
June 2020 through January 2023 (32 months) 
Core Tasks
a
Facilitate sharing and collaboration, including special work sessions and regular 
meetings
b
Focused research and dialogue on issues of special concern, including strategies 
to affirmatively further fair housing
c
Provide educational materials and outreach support
d
Engage with HCD on overall process, tours, and technical assistance
e
Develop countywide analyses with jurisdiction-level data for housing needs, etc.
f
Create templates and best practice tools, including support for property owner 
surveys
g
Conduct ADU affordability survey
h
Educate Sacramento lawmakers about jurisdiction experience
Products
21 Elements website updates, including tools, outreach materials, etc.
Regular meetings and discussion summaries
Countywide and jurisdiction-specific need tables
Countywide analyses, data templates, best practice reports and similar based on 
group needs
ADU affordability survey
Shared educational tools for the general public and decision-makers
City Roles

Fully participate in regular meetings and special work sessions.

Review and provide feedback on draft work products, including data tools, 
research papers, educational materials, etc.

Serve as a conduit to others in your city organization and community on issues 
of shared concern.

Actively share local challenges, best practices, relevant resources and housing 
knowledge.
City Time 
Average of 6 – 10 hours a month over the course of the RHNA 6 process.
176 of 218

--- page 177 ---
Exhibit A
11
BASE PACKAGE - Task Descriptions 
1a Facilitate Sharing and Collaboration. Schedule, facilitate and document regular cross-
jurisdictional meetings to engage city staff and directors in discussions of issues, opportunities, 
approaches, strategies and ideas pertinent to the housing element updates. Meetings may 
include guest participants to discuss technical topics, “how to” sessions, and focused work 
sessions to collaboratively problem-solve. We anticipate one meeting per month, with others 
added as needed, supplemented by ongoing project coordination and communications.
1b Conduct Focused Research. To support shared learning about best practices, and dialogue on 
issues of special concern, the 21 Elements team will conduct research on topics of special 
interest based on input and requests from member jurisdictions. Work products may take the 
form of white papers, fact sheets, PowerPoint presentations and/or webinars depending on the 
type, extent and format of information. This work will include exploration of best practices and 
strategies to affirmatively further fair housing.
1c Create Shared Outreach Materials. The 21 Elements team will develop materials to support 
education and outreach efforts by member jurisdictions and county partners. The purpose of 
these materials will be to support community understanding and dialog about housing needs, 
the role and purpose of the housing element, and strategies being used locally and elsewhere to 
create and sustain diverse housing choices, affordability and healthy communities. Production 
of materials will be coordinated with key steps in the update process, with most being produced 
in the first year when community discussions are getting underway. To the extent possible, 
materials will be designed so that they can be easily customized by each jurisdiction to tailor 
them to localized information and circumstances.
1d Engage with HCD. The 21 Elements team will help ensure early and ongoing engagement with 
HCD staff in order to help them understand the unique challenges and opportunities of San 
Mateo County jurisdictions, and to help all member jurisdictions better understand HCD’s 
expectations, perspectives and priorities. By building and maintaining a collaborative and 
respectful working relationship, 21 Elements will help ensure that the update process goes as 
smoothly as possible—highlighting and addressing issues before updated elements get 
submitted to HCD—and bringing situational awareness and technical assistance to bear in a 
timely manner, facilitating more efficient reviews by HCD with fewer surprises, and helping 
ensure higher quality housing elements.
1e Conduct Countywide Analyses of Housing Needs and Market Conditions. Develop 
countywide analyses of housing needs, including population, employment and household 
characteristics; general housing stock characteristics; the incidence of overpayment and 
overcrowding; and special housing needs (e.g., people experiencing homelessness, people with 
disabilities, seniors, etc.). Data will be reported at the County level and in comparative tables 
and graphics detailing each jurisdiction’s data as well. Analysis will also be provided related to 
the countywide and regional housing market conditions and trends.
177 of 218

--- page 178 ---
Exhibit A
12
1f Create Templates and Other Tools. Data templates, methodologies and related tools will be 
developed to support each jurisdiction’s work. These include but are not limited to: template 
and instructions for evaluating existing elements; tools for assessing and comparing 
governmental and non-governmental constraints; and tools for evaluating and improving fair 
housing practices. This work will also support development of a property owner survey for 
substantiating properties included in site inventories.
1g Conduct ADU Affordability Survey. The 21 Elements team will develop and implement a 
survey of ADU property owners (using lists provided by participating jurisdictions) to better 
understand how they are being used, who is being served by them, and the levels of 
affordability being met. This will help inform how jurisdictions incorporate ADUs within their 
overall housing strategy, including how to apply them to RHNA targets, and support 
development of more effective ADU policies and programs in the housing element update.
1h Educate Lawmakers. Much of the housing element process is driven by State legislation. To 
help support a more responsive and effective legislative framework for future updates, it is 
important to communicate back to lawmakers about the experience of local jurisdictions 
working to translate State law into local action. Working as a group, 21 Elements is able to 
speak effectively to multiple experiences from the perspective of jurisdictions with proven 
commitment to pro-housing policies to help lawmakers understand what’s working, what isn’t 
and how things could be improved.
Jurisdiction staff will be expected to participate fully in all Task 1 activities, including in particular the 
regular sharing and collaboration meetings, review and feedback of draft work products, and 
discussions with HCD and lawmakers, as needed. Experience has shown that the more staff engage in 
and contribute to the collaboration and its activities, the more they get out of it.
178 of 218

--- page 179 ---
Exhibit A
13
2. GETTING STARTED Package – Site Inventories and Strategies
Overview
Assess potential sites and strategies for creating additional housing capacity, taking 
into account anticipated need allocations and recent changes in state laws that affect 
site eligibility. The outcome will be early identification of the most viable strategies 
to ensure adequate sites so that rezoning and other actions can be completed in 
conjunction with the update process.
Timing 
June 2020 through June 2021 (13 months) 
Core Tasks
a
Prepare jurisdiction-specific inventory baselines (based on current inventory of 
zoned and planned sites) and compare to anticipated RHNA need numbers. How 
much additional capacity will need to be found?
b
Conduct development feasibility analyses based on defined site inventory gaps 
to identify market-supportive capacity increases that could be achieved through 
alternative planning and policy strategies (including rezoning and other 
regulatory changes).
c
Estimate high-level tax revenue implications of the alternatives.
d
Study market absorption rates for missing middle housing.
e
Review analysis methodology and results with HCD.
f
Identify the most promising site capacity strategies for each jurisdiction to meet 
RHNA needs and help ensure that rezoning and other actions can be completed 
in conjunction with the update process.
Products
Site inventory baselines and anticipated gaps by jurisdiction
Data on potential market-supportive site capacity increases (mapped and 
quantified) through alternative policy strategies (e.g., rezoning based on defined 
criteria; changes to development standards; etc.) with summary of tax impacts.
Report on market data for “missing middle” housing and implications for RHNA 
6.
Recommendations on policy and program strategies for each jurisdiction 
(developed in conjunction with jurisdiction staff) to meet RHNA
City Roles

Provide data on current sites using template and engage in discussions. 

Participate in working group to inform and guide the analysis and “missing 
middle” study, providing feedback on methodology, strategy alternatives and 
draft findings.

Work with 21E team to define recommendations on strategy priorities.
City Time 
16 to 32 hours a month over the course of 13 months
179 of 218

--- page 180 ---
Exhibit A
14
GETTING STARTED PACKAGE - Task Descriptions 
2a Document and Confirm Existing Inventory; Quantify the Gap. The 21 Elements team will 
work with jurisdiction staff to document, update, review and confirm jurisdiction-specific 
baselines of eligible sites based on current inventory of zoned and planned sites, updated to 
reflect State requirements related to site eligibility and entering into the State’s new inventory 
tool. The team will then compare the baseline inventory to the anticipated RHNA need numbers 
by income category, and quantify the additional capacity that will need to be created in each 
income category to meet the anticipated need targets. Jurisdiction staff will need to be highly 
engaged in this task to provide and carefully review baseline data and site-specific information.
2b Conduct Feasibility Analysis of Potential Site Strategies. 21 Elements will engage an 
economic analysis firm to conduct development feasibility analyses of market-supportive 
strategies that could respond to the defined site inventory gaps. Examples of alternative 
planning and policy strategies including rezoning of sites and sub-areas based on defined 
criteria (e.g., in proximity to transit or retail centers, etc.); changes to development standards 
that could increase site capacity (e.g., units per acre, height, etc.); and changes to existing zoning 
districts (e.g., changes to expand potential for multiplexes in lower density zones or to allow 
housing in commercial zones, etc.). A working group of jurisdiction staff will be formed to help 
guide the analysis work. Jurisdiction staff will need to participate fully in the working group, 
methodology review, choice of policy options for analysis, and review and refinement of results.
The analysis process will include:

Compiling parcel-level base data from the site inventories and exiting County GIS into a 
MapCraft database.

Engaging the work group to define policy options for initial countywide analysis, with 
subsequent refinement to determine both the increase in site capacity and realistic market 
response that could be expected from implementation of each option, with results mapped 
and quantified both countywide and by jurisdiction. This will be a first-tier analysis to 
inform policy deliberations and identification of the most promising strategies for each 
jurisdiction which will then require more detailed review and refinement in subsequent 
steps of the update process in each jurisdiction. 

Draft results will be reviewed with the working group and with staff from each jurisdiction, 
with subsequent refinement based on feedback. While several iterations of analysis will be 
possible, the number of iterations will be limited by the time budget for this sub-task.

The analysis will illustrate the increased gross site capacity that would result from each 
policy strategy and realistic market response in delivering housing outcomes in each RHNA 
income category.
180 of 218

--- page 181 ---
Exhibit A
15
2c Summarize Fiscal Impacts. To further inform the consideration of policy alternatives that 
could expand site capacity in response to RHNA requirements, the results from Task 2b will be 
supplemented by a high-level evaluation and quantification of potential tax revenue impacts. 
Jurisdiction staff involved in the working group will participate in reviewing and providing 
feedback on the fiscal analysis methodology and results.
2d Analyze “Missing Middle“ Housing Performance. Related to the analysis of potential policy 
alternatives that could expand site capacity, the 21 Elements team will study the market 
performance and absorption rates for “missing middle” housing types (e.g., duplexes, triplexes, 
townhomes, small multiplexes) in San Mateo County. The purpose of this analysis will be to 
understand cost and price ranges of these housing products (both historic and recently built), 
where they are located, marketability and who they are serving. This data will be helpful to 
jurisdictions as they explore policy and program strategies to expand these housing types 
during the update process. Jurisdiction staff involved in the working group will participate in 
reviewing and providing feedback on the “missing middle” study’s methodology and results.
2e Facilitate HCD Review and Feedback. To ensure that the analysis process and results meet 
State expectations for the site inventories and substantiation of market readiness, the 21 
Elements team will confer regularly with key HCD staff during the Getting Started process, 
including to review the approach and methodology; provide input on the policy options being 
explored; and provide review and feedback on the draft and final results. 
2f Provide Jurisdiction-specific Recommendations. The 21 Elements team and economic 
consultant will summarize the “Getting Started” analysis results and make recommendations to 
each jurisdiction—in close consultation with staff—regarding the most promising and relevant 
site strategies to pursue in the update, including recommendations for further analysis or 
refinement and next steps to complete the site inventory section of the housing element as well 
as recommended rezoning and other regulatory change actions to implement the priority 
strategies. Jurisdiction staff will need to participate fully in the development and vetting of 
recommendations, including engagement of other city staff and leaders, as needed, to confirm 
general support for the direction(s) being recommended.
181 of 218

--- page 182 ---
Exhibit A
16
3. FOUNDATIONS Package – Housing Needs and Constraints; Focused Support
Overview
Begin updating the housing element: evaluate the existing element in relation to 
recent state law requirements; develop the key foundational sections of the housing 
element; and refine the update’s work program and schedule, including engagement 
strategy, rezoning and other actions, as needed, to achieve a certified element.
Timing 
June 2020 through June 2021 (13 months) 
Core Tasks
a
Work with jurisdiction staff to evaluate existing element and define update 
needs.
b
Prepare jurisdiction-specific Housing Needs Analysis and Background text, 
drawing on countywide and local data.
c
Prepare jurisdiction-specific Governmental and Non-Governmental Constraints 
Analysis sections in collaboration with jurisdiction staff.
d
Develop jurisdiction-specific scope and schedule for completing the housing 
element update, including needed regulatory changes.
e
Facilitate informal consultation with HCD on jurisdiction-specific issues.
f
Provide tailored outreach materials regarding housing needs and opportunities.
Products
Evaluation of existing housing element
Drafts of key sections: background, housing needs, governmental constraints 
and non-governmental constraints
Refined work plan and schedule for remainder of the housing element update
Tailored educational and outreach materials
City Roles

Provide data relevant to the existing housing element, local housing conditions, 
and both governmental and non-governmental constraints using provided 
templates. Write some jurisdiction-specific context. 

Edit material provided by 21 Elements. 

Collaborate on developing and refining the work program and schedule to 
complete the update.

Participate in jurisdiction-specific consultations with HCD.

Review and provide feedback on draft work products.

Engage other jurisdictional staff and departments as needed to provide relevant 
data and reviews.

Schedule and lead local engagement activities with 21E support.
City Time 
30 - 50 hours a month over the course of 13 months
182 of 218

--- page 183 ---
Exhibit A
17
FOUNDATIONS PACKAGE - Task Descriptions 
3a Evaluate Existing Elements; Define Update Needs. The 21 Elements team will provide a 
HCD-reviewed template, methodology and outline for jurisdictions to use in assessing their 
current housing element per State law requirements. The review will document the 
effectiveness of the element, including actual results or outcomes (quantified where possible, 
and qualitative where necessary), progress in implementation and any significant differences 
between what was projected or planned and what was actually received, and key lessons 
learned that can be applied during the update process to strengthen the element’s effectiveness. 
The review will also highlight where updates are needed to bring each jurisdiction’s element 
into compliance with recent State law changes. Jurisdictions will be asked to provide an 
annotated copy of their current housing element along with responses to a tag-along comment 
sheet, and to provide copies of Annual Progress Reports and other documents relevant to the 
evaluation. Jurisdiction staff will also provide brief evaluation write-ups using the provided the 
template and methodology covering policies, programs, quantified objectives (where applicable), 
barriers to implementation and recommendations for the housing element update (carry forward 
as is, carry forward with specific modifications, or delete). The 21 Elements team will provide the 
needed templates, technical assistance, and review/summary of results, and will compile an 
overview of jurisdiction “best practices” based on the compilation of evaluation results from 
across the participating jurisdictions.
3b Analyze and Summarize Housing Needs, including Special Housing Needs and Projected 
Needs. Building on the results of the Countywide Housing Needs Analysis, the 21 Elements 
team will summarize jurisdiction-specific data needed for the housing element update, 
including population, employment and housing characteristics; overpayment and 
overcrowding; extremely-low income housing needs; housing stock characteristics; assisted 
housing “at risk” of conversion; opportunities for energy conservation; persons with 
disabilities; elderly; large families and female-headed households; farmworkers; and families 
and persons in need of emergency shelter. An overview of the RHNA 6 housing need projections 
will also be provided, including explanatory narrative, along with template and methodology 
for counting units built, under construction and/or approved during the planning period. 
Summary tables and narratives will be provided for all of the listed topics, which can then be 
tailored to each jurisdiction’s needs, working in partnership with jurisdiction staff. Key findings 
will also be summarized and with potential policy and program strategies identified. Jurisdiction 
staff will be responsible for providing materials on housing construction and any locally generated 
data of significance as well as information on locally assisted housing, energy conservation and 
rehab programs, green building, and related programs covering housing needs. They will also need 
to provide their own housing conditions analysis, including quantification of substandard units, 
using sample survey instruments, templates and methodology provided by the 21 Elements team.
183 of 218

--- page 184 ---
Exhibit A
18
3c Analyze and Summarize Governmental and Non-Governmental Constraints. The 21 
Elements team will provide HCD-reviewed templates, methodologies and outlines to assess 
jurisdiction-specific governmental constraints on housing production and related impacts on 
housing costs. This analysis is intended to provide a periodic reexamination of local ordinances, 
policies, standards and practices that may, under current conditions, constitute a barrier to the 
maintenance, improvement or development of housing for all income levels. In particular, 
governmental constraints that may exclude housing affordable to low- and moderate-income 
households may constitute a violation of State and federal fair housing laws, and will need to be 
addressed through the update, to be replaced with policies, standards and practices that 
affirmatively further fair housing. Worksheets and questionnaires will be provided to facilitate 
jurisdiction review and input, covering issues relevant to the site inventory, including but not 
limited to development standards and land use controls, special housing types (second units, 
manufactured homes, etc.), local processing and permitting procedures, affordable housing 
incentives, design review and historic preservation, codes and enforcement, and more. An 
analysis of non-governmental constraints on housing production will also be completed, 
including the cost of land, construction costs, availability of financing, and issues such as short-
term rentals. Jurisdiction staff will be responsible for compiling information on the covered 
governmental constraints topics using the templates, worksheets and methodology provided; and 
for reviewing and providing feedback on comparative tables to ensure accuracy in summarizing 
jurisdiction-specific standards. Staff will also work closely with the 21 Elements team to develop 
jurisdiction-specific conclusions regarding the constraints analysis and priority policies or 
programs for inclusion in the updated housing element to address key issues and ensure a pro-
housing regulatory environment.
3d Refine Housing Element Work Plan and Schedule (as needed). The 21 Elements team will 
partner with jurisdiction staff to review key issues from the sites analysis, housing needs 
analysis and constraints analysis to define the work effort needed to address the identified 
issues and achieve a certified element, including confirmation of any rezoning, changes to 
development standards or other implementing actions that may need to be undertaken in 
conjunction with the update. A process graphic and schedule will be produced to illustrate the 
needed steps and coordination across tasks, including community engagement, to meet the 
overall element schedule and State deadline. Jurisdiction staff will need to participate in the 
review and confirmation of update needs and work program refinement.
3e Facilitate HCD Consultations. Building off the previous work with HCD, the 21 Elements team 
will engage HCD staff during this phase of work, as initial analyses are being completed and 
sections of the updated elements are being developed. The approach is intended to help ensure 
“no surprises,” making sure that HCD staff are familiar with and supportive of the analyses and 
draft work products, addressing issues as they arise to ensure that they will meet expectations 
when submitted for eventual certification. Jurisdiction staff will be expected to participate in 
direct conversations with HCD staff, facilitated by the 21 Elements team, on an as-needed basis.
184 of 218

--- page 185 ---
Exhibit A
19
3f Provide Tailored Outreach Materials. Building off the work shared outreach material 
referenced above (1c), the 21 Elements team will develop tailored jurisdiction-specific outreach 
and education materials to present summaries of each city’s housing needs and opportunities, 
commitment to a pro-housing agenda, and specific action alternatives and priorities for the 
update. Materials will include both web- and print-format fact sheets and FAQs as well as a 
tailored PowerPoint presentation for use by staff and partners. Jurisdiction staff will be expected 
to review and provide feedback on draft materials, and oversee distribution (including any print 
production). 
185 of 218

--- page 186 ---
Exhibit A
20
4. FULL Package – Housing Element Development, Review and Approval
Overview
Develop the complete housing element draft; provide support for needed regulatory 
changes to support the updated element as well as continued public engagement; 
and help facilitate timely review by HCD in order to achieve final adoption by 
January 2023.
Timing 
July 2021 through January 2023 (19 months) 
Core Tasks
a
Develop the site inventory summary, and assist with Housing Element goals, 
policies, programs and quantified objectives to respond to local housing needs 
and meet state requirements.
b
Present at a community workshop, Planning Commission session and City 
Council meeting on local housing needs, key opportunities, and proposed policy 
strategies (assumes 60 hours of outreach support).
c
Assist with rezoning, General Plan and other land use changes (assumes 60 
hours of support; can be reallocated to other tasks if not needed).
d
Work with staff to prepare Draft and Final Housing Elements and attend public 
hearings.
e
Continue to facilitate consultation and review with HCD.
f
Provide support on special issues analyses and CEQA documentation.
Products
Draft Housing Element goals, policies, programs and quantified objectives
Presentation on local housing needs, opportunities and proposed policy 
strategies
Draft and Final Housing Elements
City Roles

Collaborate in development of the housing element goals, policies, programs and 
quantified objectives. This includes writing and/or editing sections. 

Continue to schedule and lead local engagement activities with 21E support.

Lead rezoning efforts and other regulatory changes (ordinance revisions, etc.) 
with 21E support.

Participate in jurisdiction-specific consultations with HCD.

Collaborate on special issues analyses and CEQA documentation, as needed.

Review and provide feedback on draft and final work products.

Engage other staff and departments to provide relevant data and reviews.

Organize and attend public hearings.
City Time 
60+ hours a month over the course of 19 months
186 of 218

--- page 187 ---
Exhibit A
21
FULL PACKAGE - Task Descriptions 
4a Assist with Site Inventory Write-up; Develop Goals, Policies, Programs and Quantified 
Objectives. The 21 Elements team will partner with jurisdiction staff to summarize and present 
their site inventory, using the HCD-provided tool. The team will also assist in staff in identifying 
and developing the goals, policies, programs and quantified objectives of the housing element, 
drawing upon and responding to the results of the previous analyses to ensure a 
comprehensive pro-housing approach that facilitates the creation of new units consistent with 
established RHNA targets and affirmatively furthers fair housing. Jurisdiction staff will be 
responsible for working in partnership to enter the site inventory data and summarize the data in 
table and narrative format using provided templates; and assist in prioritizing and developing the 
draft element’s goals, policies, programs and quantified objectives.
4b Present at Community Workshop, Planning Commission and City Council. The 21 
Elements team will work with jurisdiction staff to develop a presentation that summarizes the 
draft housing element’s context, analysis and priority actions. 21 Elements will also participate 
in making the presentation at one community workshop, one planning commission meeting and 
one City Council session and support staff in responding to questions. The presentation will also 
be accompanied by presentation notes to support use by staff and partners in other settings. 
Jurisdiction staff will be responsible for reviewing draft and final presentation materials; 
participating in the three core presentations; and helping with distribution of the presentation to 
others or making the presentation to other audiences, as needed. 
4c Assist with Rezoning, General Plan and Other Land Use Changes. The 21 Elements team will 
support jurisdiction staff in evaluating and prioritizing implementation work tasks for enacting 
needed changes to zoning, development standards and/or other changes needed to ensure 
certification of the housing element and accomplishment of its goals and objectives. This task 
will also include identification of other general plan policies that may need to be modified to 
ensure consistency with the updated housing element. The budget for this task does not 
provide the necessary support to undertake rezoning work or to rewrite standards (and related 
environmental analyses), but is intended to provide needed support for decision making, 
scoping and development of the implementation work program. Jurisdiction staff will be 
responsible for taking the lead on implementation task planning, decision making and action, 
supported by the 21 Elements team.  
4d Assist in Preparation of Draft and Final Elements; Attend Public Hearings. The 21 
Elements team will work with jurisdiction staff to compile the complete Draft Housing Element 
for public review and submittal to HCD. The formatted document will be made available as a 
web-based pdf as well as in hard copy to facilitate community review and input. Staff from 21 
Elements will also be available to attend up to two public hearings on the draft element to 
provide an overview of the document and help answer questions. Jurisdiction staff will help 
develop the draft element and provide review and feedback on portions developed by the 21 
187 of 218

--- page 188 ---
Exhibit A
22
Elements team. Staff will take the lead on public hearings related to review and input on the draft 
document, supported by 21 Elements as described above.
4d Facilitate HCD Consultations. Building off the work of Task 3e, the 21 Elements team will 
engage HCD staff during the final phase of the update, including but not limited to supporting 
staff in making the official submittal for review and certification by HCD and participating in 
review phone calls, as needed. As in 3e, the approach is intended to help ensure “no surprises” 
and to facilitate HCD staff’s familiarity with the key issues being addressed as well as the policy 
strategies being pursued prior to submittal to ensure they will meet the bar for certification. 
Jurisdiction staff will be expected to participate in direct conversations with HCD staff, facilitated 
by the 21 Elements team; make the formal submittal to HCD; participate in review discussions; and 
be responsive to information requests as needed.
4e Provide Support on Special Issues and CEQA Documentation. The 21 Elements team will 
support jurisdiction staff in addressing other issues of special concern that may arise, 
contributing to staff reports and other meeting materials as needed, and determining the 
necessary CEQA documentation for the final draft housing element. The budget for this task 
does not include the time needed to develop the actual CEQA documentation, but will likely rely 
substantially on CEQA analysis and documentation developed in relation to task 4c. Jurisdiction 
staff will take the lead on these task areas, with support from the 21 Elements team.
188 of 218

--- page 189 ---
Exhibit A
23
Exhibit B
 Disbursement and Rates
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor described in Exhibit A and subject to 
the terms of the Agreement, County shall pay Contractor based on the terms as set forth in this 
Exhibit B.
Amount and Method of Payment
In no event shall County reimburse Contractor for any payments exceeding the total amount 
stated in Paragraph 3 “Payment” of this Agreement.  
Funding shall be used by County to reimburse Contractor for performing program service 
activities and program delivery costs enumerated in Exhibit A.  None of the funding shall be 
used to support Contractor's general administration costs. 
County will reimburse Contractor for actual costs incurred for services rendered/incurred, 
provided Contractor provides DOH with documentation and assurances described below that 
the costs were appropriate to the request for reimbursement and consistent with the budget 
described in Exhibit A. Contractor will supply invoices in a format necessary to meet 
requirements set forth in S.B. 2, Chapter 364, Part 2 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety 
Code (Ca. 2017).
All back-up invoice documentation should be submitted electronically via email.  DOH reserves 
the right to request hard copies of invoice documentation or a summary of documentation plus 
scanned/emailed support materials as a condition of County review and approval.  In all cases, 
Contractor shall make documentation records available for DOH review upon request.
Contractor's requests for reimbursement/payment must be from an authorized representative 
of Contractor.  By submitting request for reimbursement/payment, Contractor certifies that the 
specific services for which reimbursement or payment is being requested have been 
satisfactorily completed, that the payments are proper and that all funds to be expended are 
exclusively for the activity or services described in Exhibit A.  County reserves the right to 
verify such completion either prior to or after reimbursement/payment has been made to 
Contractor.
Questionable Reimbursement Request:  In the event of a questionable payment request, 
County will state in writing the specific nature of its objections to Contractor's work.  County will 
also specify what actions or changes are necessary to make the work acceptable.  Contractor 
shall respond to County within 15 calendar days of receipt of such objections.  The parties 
shall meet to discuss such objections at the request of either party.  County will not be 
obligated to make a payment of any billing until any and all objections to the adequacy of the 
services rendered or the amount of the billing have been resolved.
189 of 218

--- page 190 ---
Exhibit A
24
Attachment IP
Intellectual Property Rights
The County of San Mateo (“County”), shall and does own all titles, rights and interests in all Work 
Products created by Contractor and its subcontractors (collectively “Vendors”) for the County under this 
Agreement.  Contractor may not sell, transfer, or permit the use of any Work Products without the 
express written consent of the County.
1.
“Work Products” are defined as all materials, tangible or not, created in whatever medium pursuant 
to this Agreement, including without limitation publications, promotional or educational materials, 
reports, manuals, specifications, drawings and sketches, computer programs, software and 
databases, schematics, marks, logos, graphic designs, notes, matters and combinations thereof, and 
all forms of intellectual property.
2.
Contractor shall not dispute or contest, directly or indirectly, the County’s exclusive right and title to 
the Work Products nor the validity of the intellectual property embodied therein.  Contractor hereby 
assigns, and if later required by the County, shall assign to the County all titles, rights and interests in 
all Work Products.  Contractor shall cooperate and cause subcontractors to cooperate in perfecting 
County’s titles, rights or interests in any Work Product, including prompt execution of documents as 
presented by the County.
3.
To the extent any of the Work Products may be protected by U.S. Copyright laws, Parties agree that 
the County commissions Vendors to create the copyrightable Work Products, which are intended to 
be work-made-for-hire for the sole benefit of the County and the copyright of which is vested in the 
County.
4.
In the event that the title, rights, and/or interests in any Work Products are deemed not to be “work-
made-for-hire” or not owned by the County, Contractor hereby assigns and shall require all persons 
performing work pursuant to this Agreement, including its subcontractors, to assign to the County all 
titles, rights, interests, and/or copyrights in such Work Product.  Should such assignment and/or 
transfer become necessary or if at any time the County requests cooperation of Contractor to perfect 
the County’s titles, rights or interests in any Work Product, Contractor agrees to promptly execute 
and to obtain execution of any documents (including assignments) required to perfect the titles, 
rights, and interests of the County in the Work Products with no additional charges to the County 
beyond that identified in this Agreement or subsequent change orders.  The County, however, shall 
pay all filing fees required for the assignment, transfer, recording, and/or application.
5.
Contractor agrees that before commencement of any subcontract work it will incorporate this 
ATTACHMENT IP to contractually bind or otherwise oblige its subcontractors and personnel 
performing work under this Agreement such that the County’s titles, rights, and interests in Work 
Products are preserved and protected as intended herein.
190 of 218

--- page 191 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3678
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
“Cut the Commute” Pledge
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the City Manager to sign the "Cut the Commute" pledge being sponsored by Commute.org.
BACKGROUND:
At its September 21st regular meeting, the City Council received an informational presentation from John Ford, Executive 
Director of Commute.org, regarding its "Cut the Commute" pledge. This initiative provides Bay Area companies and 
organizations the ability to pledge to continue to provide remote work options for employees even when current health 
orders are eased or lifted. Benefits of continuing to provide remote work options include cleaner air and reduced climate 
impacts; reduced traffic congestion; time and money savings for employees; and improved employee recruitment, 
retention, and productivity. 
By signing the pledge, the City commits to continuing to provide remote work options of one to two days per week for 
employees whose work requirements allow that flexibility. For those employees that don't have that flexibility, the City 
will encourage alternatives to driving alone. Based on these parameters, City staff is comfortable signing the pledge to 
continuing remote work options once current health orders are eased or lifted.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This authorization is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
191 of 218

--- page 192 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3679
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update #17
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued 
by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
On March 16, 2020, the County of San Mateo Health Officer issued an order to "shelter in place", effective March 17, 2020 
at 12:01 am. This order was extended and amended several times between March 17th and June 17th, when the County 
Health Officer lifted the local shelter-in-place order to align San Mateo County with the State of California’s shelter-in-
place order. At that time, businesses allowed to operate and activities allowed to occur became subject to the State’s 
orders, with some additional local guidance provided by the County’s Health Officer. 
The City Council also declared a local health emergency on March 16th. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
On August 28th, the State announced revised criteria for loosening and tightening restrictions on businesses and activities 
under its new framework for reducing COVID-19 called “Blueprint for a Safer Economy.” This new framework went into 
effect on August 31st, and initially San Mateo County was in the purple tier. This means there is continued widespread 
COVID-19 transmission risk locally.  On September 22nd, San Mateo County was moved to the red tier, which means there 
is continued substantial COVID-19 transmission risk locally.  While this did allow some additional businesses to re-open 
and/or expand capacity, the continued risk of substantial COVID-19 transmission necessitates the continued exercise of 
extraordinary emergency powers to respond to the impacts of this public health crisis.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
192 of 218

--- page 193 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
193 of 218

--- page 194 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3683
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
League of California Cities – City Position on Resolution No. 1 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction to voting delegate City Council Member Rick Bonilla to vote either to support or oppose the League of 
California Cities’ proposed resolution at the annual General Assembly with regard to urging Congress to amend section 230 
of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 to require social media companies to remove materials which promote 
criminal activities.  
BACKGROUND:
At its September 8, 2020 meeting, the City Council appointed City Council member Rick Bonilla as the City’s voting 
delegate for the annual League of California Cities general assembly on Friday, October 9 at 11 am. There is one resolution 
for the general assembly to consider and it is appended as Attachment 1. Attachment 2 contains the entire resolution 
packet which includes information on the process, policy committee review, and cities that have taken a position on this 
resolution. 
The League recommends that voting delegates receive direction from the City Council to ensure their vote is 
representative of the City. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This legislative decision is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed League Resolution No. 1 
Att 2 – League 2020 Resolution Packet
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
194 of 218

--- page 195 ---
1. A RESOLUTION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE LEAGUE OF 
CALIFORNIA CITIES CALLING FOR AN AMENDMENT OF SECTION 230 
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS DECENCY ACT OF 1996 TO REQUIRE 
SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANIES TO REMOVE MATERIALS WHICH 
PROMOTE CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES 
 
Source: City of Cerritos 
Concurrence of five or more cities/city officials 
Cities: City of Hawaiian Gardens, City of Lakewood, City of Ontario, City of Rancho 
Cucamonga, City of Roseville 
Referred to: Governance, Transparency and Labor Relations and Public Safety Policy 
Committees 
 
WHEREAS, local law enforcement agencies seek to protect their communities’ 
residents, businesses, and property owners from crime; and 
 
WHEREAS, increasingly, criminals use social media platforms to post notices of places, 
dates and times for their followers to meet to commit crimes; and 
 
WHEREAS, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 currently 
provides online platforms (including social media platforms) immunity from civil liability based 
on third-party content and for the removal of content; and  
 
WHEREAS, in the 25 years since Section 230’s enactment, online platforms no longer 
function simply as forums for the posting of third-party content but rather use sophisticated 
algorithms to promote content and to connect users; and 
 
WHEREAS, the United States Department of Justice, in its June 2020 report, “Section 
230 — Nurturing Innovation or Fostering Unaccountability?,” concluded the expansive 
interpretation courts have given Section 230 has left online platforms immune from a wide array 
of illicit activity on their services, with little transparency or accountability, noting it “makes 
little sense” to immunize from civil liability an online platform that purposefully facilitates or 
solicits third-party content or activity that violates federal criminal law; and 
 
 WHEREAS, current court precedent interpreting Section 230 also precludes state and 
local jurisdictions from enforcing criminal laws against such online platforms that, while not 
actually performing unlawful activities, facilitate them; and  
 
WHEREAS, amendment of Section 230 is necessary to clarify that online platforms are 
not immune from civil liability for promoting criminal activities; and 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED at the League General Assembly, assembled 
at the League Annual Conference on October 9, 2020 in Long Beach, California, that the League 
calls upon the U.S. Congress to amend Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 
to condition immunity from civil liability on the following: 
 
5
195 of 218

--- page 196 ---
1. Online platforms must establish and implement a reasonable program to identify and take 
down content which solicits criminal activity; and 
 
2. Online platforms must provide to law enforcement information which will assist in the 
identification and apprehension of persons who use the services of the platform to solicit 
and to engage in criminal activity; and 
 
3. An online platform that willfully or negligently fails in either of these duties is not 
immune from enforcement of state and local laws which impose criminal or civil liability 
for such failure. 
 
 
 
 
6
196 of 218

--- page 197 ---
Annual Conference 
Resolutions Packet 
2020 Annual Conference Resolutions 
October 7 – 9, 2020 
197 of 218

--- page 198 ---
INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
RESOLUTIONS CONTAINED IN THIS PACKET: The League bylaws provide that 
resolutions shall be referred by the president to an appropriate policy committee for review and 
recommendation. Resolutions with committee recommendations shall then be considered by the 
General Resolutions Committee at the Annual Conference. 
 
This year, one resolution has been introduced for consideration at the Annual Conference and 
referred to League policy committees.   
 
POLICY COMMITTEES: Two policy committees will meet virtually at the Annual Conference to 
consider and take action on the resolution referred to them. The committees are: Governance, 
Transparency & Labor Relations and Public Safety. These committees will meet virtually on 
Tuesday, September 29, with the Governance, Transparency and Labor Relations Policy Committee 
meeting from 9:30 – 11:30 a.m. and the Public Safety Policy Committee meeting from 1:00 – 3:00 
p.m.  The sponsor of the resolution has been notified of the time and location of the meeting.   
 
GENERAL RESOLUTIONS COMMITTEE: This committee will meet virtually at 1:00 p.m. on 
Thursday, October 8, to consider the reports of the policy committees regarding the resolutions. This 
committee includes one representative from each of the League’s regional divisions, functional 
departments and standing policy committees, as well as other individuals appointed by the League 
president.   
 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY: This meeting will be held virtually at 11:00 a.m. on Friday,  
October 9. 
 
PETITIONED RESOLUTIONS: For those issues that develop after the normal 60-day 
deadline, a resolution may be introduced at the Annual Conference with a petition signed by 
designated voting delegates of 10 percent of all member cities (48 valid signatures required) and 
presented to the Voting Delegates Desk at least 24 hours prior to the time set for convening the 
Annual Business Meeting of the General Assembly.  This year, that deadline is 12:30 p.m., 
Thursday, October 8.   
 
Any questions concerning the resolutions procedures may be directed to Meg Desmond at the 
League office: mdesmond@cacities.org or (916) 658-8224
1
198 of 218

--- page 199 ---
GUIDELINES FOR ANNUAL CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS 
 
Policy development is a vital and ongoing process within the League. The principal means for 
deciding policy on the important issues facing cities is through the League’s seven standing policy 
committees and the board of directors. The process allows for timely consideration of issues in a 
changing environment and assures city officials the opportunity to both initiate and influence policy 
decisions. 
 
Annual conference resolutions constitute an additional way to develop League policy. Resolutions 
should adhere to the following criteria. 
 
Guidelines for Annual Conference Resolutions 
 
1. 
Only issues that have a direct bearing on municipal affairs should be considered or adopted 
at the Annual Conference. 
 
2. 
The issue is not of a purely local or regional concern. 
 
3. 
The recommended policy should not simply restate existing League policy. 
 
4. 
The resolution should be directed at achieving one of the following objectives: 
 
(a) 
Focus public or media attention on an issue of major importance to cities. 
 
(b) 
Establish a new direction for League policy by establishing general principals around 
which more detailed policies may be developed by policy committees and the board of 
directors. 
 
(c) 
Consider important issues not adequately addressed by the policy committees and 
board of directors. 
 
(d) 
Amend the League bylaws (requires 2/3 vote at General Assembly). 
 
2
199 of 218

--- page 200 ---
KEY TO ACTIONS TAKEN ON RESOLUTIONS 
Resolutions have been grouped by policy committees to which they have been assigned.  
 
 
Number 
 
Key Word Index 
 
 
 
Reviewing Body Action 
 
 
 
 
1 
2 
3 
1 - Policy Committee Recommendation 
     to General Resolutions Committee 
2 - General Resolutions Committee 
3 - General Assembly 
 
 
 
 
GOVERNANCE, TRANSPARENCY & LABOR RELATIONS POLICY COMMITTEE 
 
 
     1 
2 
3 
1 
Amendment to Section 230 of The Communications 
Decency Act of 1996 
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC SAFETY POLICY COMMMITTEE 
 
 
     1 
2 
3 
 1 
Amendment to Section 230 of The Communications 
Decency Act of 1996 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
200 of 218

--- page 201 ---
KEY TO ACTIONS TAKEN ON RESOLUTIONS (Continued) 
 
Resolutions have been grouped by policy committees to which they have been assigned. 
 
 
KEY TO REVIEWING BODIES 
KEY TO ACTIONS TAKEN 
 
1.  Policy Committee  
 
A  
Approve 
 
2.  General Resolutions Committee 
 
D   
Disapprove 
 
3.  General Assembly 
 
N   
No Action 
 
 
 
R   
Refer to appropriate policy committee for 
study 
ACTION FOOTNOTES 
 
 
a   
Amend+ 
 
*  Subject matter covered in another resolution 
 
Aa   
Approve as amended+ 
**  Existing League policy 
Aaa   
Approve with additional amendment(s)+ 
 
***  Local authority presently exists 
 
Ra   
Refer as amended to appropriate policy 
committee for study+ 
 
 
Raa   
Additional amendments and refer+ 
 
 
 
Da   
Amend (for clarity or brevity) and 
Disapprove+ 
 
 
 
 
Na   
Amend (for clarity or brevity) and take No 
Action+ 
 
W         Withdrawn by Sponsor 
 
 
 
Procedural Note:   
The League of California Cities resolution process at the Annual Conference is guided by the League 
Bylaws.  A helpful explanation of this process can be found on the League’s website by clicking on this 
link:  Resolution Process. 
4
201 of 218

--- page 202 ---
1. A RESOLUTION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE LEAGUE OF 
CALIFORNIA CITIES CALLING FOR AN AMENDMENT OF SECTION 230 
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS DECENCY ACT OF 1996 TO REQUIRE 
SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANIES TO REMOVE MATERIALS WHICH 
PROMOTE CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES 
 
Source: City of Cerritos 
Concurrence of five or more cities/city officials 
Cities: City of Hawaiian Gardens, City of Lakewood, City of Ontario, City of Rancho 
Cucamonga, City of Roseville 
Referred to: Governance, Transparency and Labor Relations and Public Safety Policy 
Committees 
 
WHEREAS, local law enforcement agencies seek to protect their communities’ 
residents, businesses, and property owners from crime; and 
 
WHEREAS, increasingly, criminals use social media platforms to post notices of places, 
dates and times for their followers to meet to commit crimes; and 
 
WHEREAS, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 currently 
provides online platforms (including social media platforms) immunity from civil liability based 
on third-party content and for the removal of content; and  
 
WHEREAS, in the 25 years since Section 230’s enactment, online platforms no longer 
function simply as forums for the posting of third-party content but rather use sophisticated 
algorithms to promote content and to connect users; and 
 
WHEREAS, the United States Department of Justice, in its June 2020 report, “Section 
230 — Nurturing Innovation or Fostering Unaccountability?,” concluded the expansive 
interpretation courts have given Section 230 has left online platforms immune from a wide array 
of illicit activity on their services, with little transparency or accountability, noting it “makes 
little sense” to immunize from civil liability an online platform that purposefully facilitates or 
solicits third-party content or activity that violates federal criminal law; and 
 
 WHEREAS, current court precedent interpreting Section 230 also precludes state and 
local jurisdictions from enforcing criminal laws against such online platforms that, while not 
actually performing unlawful activities, facilitate them; and  
 
WHEREAS, amendment of Section 230 is necessary to clarify that online platforms are 
not immune from civil liability for promoting criminal activities; and 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED at the League General Assembly, assembled 
at the League Annual Conference on October 9, 2020 in Long Beach, California, that the League 
calls upon the U.S. Congress to amend Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 
to condition immunity from civil liability on the following: 
 
5
202 of 218

--- page 203 ---
1. Online platforms must establish and implement a reasonable program to identify and take 
down content which solicits criminal activity; and 
 
2. Online platforms must provide to law enforcement information which will assist in the 
identification and apprehension of persons who use the services of the platform to solicit 
and to engage in criminal activity; and 
 
3. An online platform that willfully or negligently fails in either of these duties is not 
immune from enforcement of state and local laws which impose criminal or civil liability 
for such failure. 
 
 
 
 
6
203 of 218

--- page 204 ---
Background Information to Resolution 
Source:  City of Cerritos
Background: 
Social media platforms are now used as a primary means of communication, including by 
criminals who use them to advertise locations, dates, and times where the criminal acts will take 
place. Such communications, because they occur online, render the online platform immune 
from any civil liability for the costs incurred by law enforcement agencies that respond under 
Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996. Immunity from civil liability extends 
even to injunctive relief, thus preventing local governments from merely seeking an injunction 
against the online platform to have such a post removed. 
The City of Cerritos supports the rights of free speech and assembly guaranteed under the First 
Amendment, but believes cities should have the ability to hold social media companies liable for 
their role in promoting criminal acts. Recently, the City suffered thousands of dollars in damages 
to respond to online threats that the Cerritos Mall would be looted. Anonymous posts on 
Instagram.com invited followers to “work together to loot Cerritos [M]all” only several days 
after the Lakewood Mall had been looted, causing thousands of dollars in damages. The posts 
were made under the names “cerritosmalllooting” and “cantstopusall,” among others. The City of 
Cerritos had no choice but to initiate response to protect the Mall and the public from this 
credible threat.  
At the same time local governments face historic shortfalls owing to the economic effects of 
COVID-19, the nation’s social media platforms are seeing a record rise in profits. The broad 
immunity provided by Section 230 is completely untenable. Online platforms should be held 
responsible—and liable—for the direct harm they facilitate. Local governments are in no 
position to bear the costs of the crimes facilitated by these companies alone.  
Congress is currently reviewing antitrust legislation and by extension, Section 230’s immunity 
provisions. The League urges Congress to amend Section 230 to limit the immunity provided to 
online platforms when they promote criminal activity to provide local governments some 
measurable form of relief. 
7
204 of 218

--- page 205 ---
League of California Cities Staff Analysis on Resolution No. 1 
 
Staff:  
Charles Harvey, Legislative Representative 
Bijan Mehryar, Legislative Representative  
Caroline Cirrincione, Policy Analyst 
Johnnie Piña, Policy Analyst 
 
Committees:  Governance, Transparency and Labor Relations 
Public Safety  
 
Summary:  
This resolution states that the League of California Cities should urge Congress to amend Section 
230 of the federal Communications Decency Act of 1996 (CDA) to limit the immunity provided 
to online platforms where their forums enable criminal activity to be promoted. 
 
Ultimately, the policy objectives proposed under this resolution, if enacted, would incentivize 
social media companies to establish and implement a reasonable program to identify and remove 
content that solicits criminal activity. 
 
Background: 
The City of Cerritos is sponsoring this resolution in reaction to events whereby persons, using 
social media platforms to coordinate locations, dates, and times for their planned criminal 
activity, have committed acts of looting and vandalism resulting in both actual economic harm 
for targeted businesses, and pecuniary loss to cities who used resources to prevent such acts from 
occurring when such plans are discovered.  
 
For example, just days after the Lakewood Mall had been looted, the City of Cerritos uncovered 
online communications via social media that persons were planning to target the nearby Cerritos 
Mall.  Consequently, the city felt compelled to undertake measures to protect the Cerritos Mall, 
costing the city thousands of dollars to guard against what officials believed to be a credible 
threat. 
 
Staff Comments:  
Overview: 
While there is certainly an argument to substantiate concerns around censorship, the use of social 
media as a tool for organizing violence is equally disturbing. 
 
Throughout much of the 2020 Summer, there have been many reports of looting happening 
across the country during what were otherwise mostly peaceful demonstrations.  Combined with 
the speculation of who is really behind the looting and why, the mayhem has usurped the 
message of peaceful protestors, causing a great deal of property damage in the process.  
Likewise, these criminal actions have upended the livelihood of some small business owners, 
many of whom were already reeling in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.   
 
8
205 of 218

--- page 206 ---
While social media allows people to connect in real time with others all over the world, 
organized illegal activity using social media is made easier by the anonymous nature of virtual 
interactions. 
 
Nation’s Reaction to the Murder of George Floyd: 
Shortly after the senseless killing of George Floyd by law enforcement on May 26, 2020, civil 
unrest began as local protests in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area of Minnesota 
before quickly spreading nationwide to more than 2,000 cities and towns across the United 
States, and in approximately 60 countries in support of the Black Lives Matter movement.  
Protests unfolded across the country throughout the entire month of June and into July, and 
persisted in a handful of cities such as Portland and Seattle into the month of August.   
 
Although the majority of protests were peaceful, some demonstrations in cities escalated into 
riots, looting, and street skirmishes with police.  While much of the nation’s focus has been on 
addressing police misconduct, police brutality, and systemic racism, some have used 
demonstrators’ peaceful protests on these topics as opportunities to loot and/or vandalize 
businesses, almost exclusively under the guise of the “Black Lives Matter” movement.  It has 
been uncovered that these “flash robs”1 were coordinated through the use of social media.  The 
spontaneity and speed of the attacks enabled by social media make it challenging for the police 
to stop these criminal events as they are occurring, let alone prevent them from commencing 
altogether. 
 
As these events started occurring across the country, investigators quickly began combing 
through Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram seeking to identify potentially violent extremists, 
looters, and vandals and finding ways to charge them after — and in some cases before — they 
sow chaos.  While this technique has alarmed civil liberties advocates, who argue the strategy 
could negatively impact online speech, law enforcement officials claim it aligns with 
investigation strategies employed in the past.   
 
Section 230 and other Constitutional Concerns 
At its core, Section 230(c)(1) of the CDA provides immunity from liability for providers and 
users of an “interactive computer service” who publish information provided by third-party 
users.  Essentially, this protects websites from lawsuits if a user posts something illegal, although 
there are exceptions for copyright violations, sex work-related material, and violations of federal 
criminal law. 
 
Protections from Section 230 have come under more recent scrutiny on issues related to hate 
speech and ideological biases in relation to the influence technology companies can hold on 
political discussions. 
 
Setting aside Section 230, there are some potential constitutional issues one could raise, should 
there be an attempt to implement such a resolution into statute. 
                                                             
1 The “flash robs” phenomenon—where social media is used to organize groups of teens and young 
adults to quickly ransack and loot various retail stores—began to occur sporadically throughout the United 
States over the past ten years. 
 
9
206 of 218

--- page 207 ---
In the United States, the First Amendment prohibits the government from restricting most forms 
of speech, which would include many proposals to force tech companies to moderate content. 
While “illegal” types of speech enjoy limited or no First Amendment protection, the line for 
delineating between “legal” and “illegal” speech is very difficult to determine.  Consequently, 
one would expect online platforms to push back on whether there is a constitutionally feasible 
way for them to “identify” protected speech versus unprotected speech, or whether there is a 
feasible way to define “content which solicits criminal activity.” A law requiring companies to 
moderate content based on the political viewpoint it expresses, for example, would likely be 
struck down as unconstitutional. 
 
Nonetheless, private companies can create rules to restrict speech if they so choose. Online 
platforms sometimes argue they have constitutionally-protected First Amendment rights in their 
“editorial activity,” and therefore, it violates their constitutional rights to require them to monitor 
(i.e., “identify and take down”) content that may be protected under the First Amendment.  They 
may also argue, along the same lines, that the government may not condition the granting of a 
privilege (i.e., immunity) on doing things that amount to a violation of their first amendment 
rights. This is why Facebook and Twitter ban hate speech and other verifiably false information, 
for example, even though such speech is permitted under the First Amendment. 
 
With respect to privacy and the Fourth Amendment, online platforms may argue that requiring 
them to “provide to law enforcement information that will assist in the identification and 
apprehension of persons who use the services of the platform to solicit and to engage in criminal 
activity,” turns them into government actors that search users’ accounts without a warrant based 
on probable cause, in violation of the Fourth Amendment. 
 
Industry Perspective 
Unsurprisingly, industry stakeholders have strong opinions for what such changes could mean 
for their respective business models.   
 
For instance, a Facebook spokesperson recently noted in a Fortune article that, “By exposing 
companies to potential liability for everything that billions of people around the world say, this 
would penalize companies that choose to allow controversial speech and encourage platforms to 
censor anything that might offend anyone.” 
 
The article acknowledges that in recent years, both political parties have put social media 
companies under increased scrutiny, but they are not unified in their stated concerns. While 
Republicans accuse the companies of unfairly censoring their post, Democrats complain that 
these companies fail to do enough to block misinformation, violent content, and hate speech. 
 
The article concludes that there is no way companies like Facebook and Twitter could operate 
without Section 230, and that the removal of this section would thereby “eliminate social media 
as we know it.” 
 
Recent Federal Action on Social Media 
The President recently issued an Executive Order on Preventing Online Censorship.  In it, he 
notes the following: 
10
207 of 218

--- page 208 ---
“The growth of online platforms in recent years raises important questions about applying 
the ideals of the First Amendment to modern communications technology.  Today, many 
Americans follow the news, stay in touch with friends and family, and share their views 
on current events through social media and other online platforms.  As a result, these 
platforms function in many ways as a 21st century equivalent of the public square. 
 
Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube wield immense, if not unprecedented, power 
to shape the interpretation of public events; to censor, delete, or disappear information; 
and to control what people see or do not see.” 
 
Ultimately the President implores the U.S. Attorney General to develop a proposal for federal 
legislation that “would be useful to promote the policy objectives of this order.” The President is 
not subtle in communicating his desire to ultimately see legislation heavily slanted toward the 
preservation of free speech on social media, which some interpret as a maneuver to preempt 
Twitter and Facebook from regulating speech they otherwise deem as hateful or demonstrably 
false. 
 
Considerations for Congress  
Courts have generally construed Section 230 to grant internet service providers broad immunity 
for hosting others’ content. Many have claimed that Section 230’s immunity provisions were 
critical to the development of the modern internet, and some continue to defend Section 230’s 
broad scope. But simultaneously, a variety of commentators and legislators have questioned 
whether those immunity provisions should now be narrowed, given that the internet looks much 
different today than it did in 1996 when Section 230 was first enacted.   
 
One way for Congress to narrow Section 230’s liability shield would be to create additional 
exceptions, as it did with FOSTA and SESTA2.  If a lawsuit does not fall into one of the express 
exceptions contained in Section 230(e)3, courts may have to engage in a highly fact-specific 
inquiry to determine whether Section 230 immunity applies: Section 230(c)(1) immunity will be 
inapplicable if the provider itself has developed or helped to develop the disputed content, while 
Section 230(c)(2) immunity may not apply if a service provider’s decision to restrict access to 
content was not made in good faith. 
 
Date Storage and Usage Considerations for Cities 
Section 2 of the conditions the resolution applies to civil immunity requires that online platforms 
provide relevant information to law enforcement to assist in the identification and apprehension 
of persons who use the services of the platform to solicit and to engage in criminal activity.  This 
section would most likely require the development of new procedures and protocols that govern 
law enforcements usage and retention of such information.  Those new policies and procedures 
would undoubtedly raise privacy concerns depending on how wide the latitude is for law 
                                                             
2 The Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA) and the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA) 
create an exception to Section 230 that means website publishers would be responsible if third parties 
are found to be posting ads for prostitution — including consensual sex work — on their platforms. 
3 Section 230(e) says that Section 230 will not apply to: (1) federal criminal laws; (2) intellectual property 
laws; (3) any state law that is “consistent with” Section 230; (4) the Electronic Communications Privacy 
Act of 1986; and (5) civil actions or state prosecutions where the underlying conduct violates federal law 
prohibiting sex trafficking. 
11
208 of 218

--- page 209 ---
enforcement to request such information.  In those circumstances cities could end up themselves 
incurring new liability for the governance of data that could either violate certain privacy rules or 
increase their data governance costs.  
 
Fiscal Impact:  
Unlike the costly resources needed to support or oppose a ballot measure, a federal resolution 
from the League of California Cities that simply urges Congress to undertake certain action 
should have a negligible fiscal impact, if any monetary impact at all.   
 
Regarding cities, if social media had no immunity for its failure to police content that solicits 
criminal activity, then an individual city could theoretically save thousands if not millions of 
dollars, depending on its size and other subjective circumstances.  Collectively, cities across the 
country could potentially save at least hundreds of millions between redress for actual economic 
harm suffered and/or the cost of preventative measures taken to stop criminal activity from 
occurring in the first place. 
 
Conversely, if social media platforms were to shut down, due to an inability to comply with a 
policy requirement to regulate speech on the internet, it is unclear on how cities might be 
impacted from a fiscal standpoint. 
 
Existing League Policy:   
Public Safety: 
Law Enforcement 
The League supports the promotion of public safety through: 
• Stiffer penalties for violent offenders, and 
• Protecting state Citizens’ Option for Public Safety (COPS) and federal Community 
Oriented Police Services (COPS) funding and advocating for additional funding for local 
agencies to recoup the costs of crime and increase community safety. 
 
Violence 
The League supports the reduction of violence through strategies that address gang violence, 
domestic violence, and youth access to tools of violence, including but not limited to firearms, 
knives, etc. 
 
The League supports the use of local, state, and federal collaborative prevention and intervention 
methods to reduce youth and gang violence. 
 
Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations: 
Private Sector Liability  
The League will work closely with private sector representatives to evaluate the potential for 
League support of civil justice reform measures designed to improve the business climate in 
California.  These measures should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis through the League 
police process. 
 
 
 
12
209 of 218

--- page 210 ---
Questions to Consider: 
Many cities obviously believe that creating civil liability for social media platforms—due to their 
role in providing the communication mediums for those who organize looting attacks— is key to 
deterring this organized criminal activity. 
 
If such a change was actually passed by Congress, it would force social media to essentially 
police every conversation on stakeholders’ respective platforms, putting immense pressure on the 
industry to make subjective determinations about what conversations are appropriate and what 
are unacceptable. 
 
At the end of the day, there are a few questions to consider in assessing this proposed resolution:  
1) What would this resolution’s impact be on free speech and government censorship? 
2) What are the expectations for cities when they receive information from a social media 
platform about a potentially credible threat in their respective communities?  Does a city 
become liable for having information from a social media platform and the threat 
occurs? 
3) What would the costs be to develop and maintain new data governance policies, 
including data infrastructure, to store this information? 
4) What is the role of the League in engaging in issues relating to someone’s privacy? 
 
Support:  
The following letters of concurrence were received: 
City of Hawaiian Gardens 
City of Lakewood 
City of Ontario 
City of Rancho Cucamonga 
City of Roseville 
13
210 of 218

--- page 211 ---
LETTERS OF CONCURRENCE 
Resolution No. 1 
 
Amendment to Section 230 of the Communications  
Decency Act of 1996 
 
14
211 of 218

--- page 212 ---
"Our Youth - Our Future"

August 7, 2020

John Dunbar, President
jdunbar@yville.com
League of California Cities
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear President Dunbar:

On August 3, 2020, the Cerritos City Council approved to sponsor a Resolution of the City
Council of the City of Cerritos Submitting to the League of California Cities General
Assembly a Proposed Resolution Regarding Support of Legislation Related to Social
Media Platform Accountability for Promotion of Criminal Acts.

This proposed resolution with the required background information will be submitted to the
League of California Cities for consideration by the General Assembly at the Annual
Conference on October 9, 2020. (Attachments 1 and 2) The intent of the resolution is to
address the use of social medial platforms for posting information that leads followers to meet
and commit crimes and to also hold these platforms and the persons who post said information

civilly and criminally accountable for all costs incurred by the local jurisdictions where the
crimes occurred.

The public safety efforts in the City of Hawaiian Gardens would certainly benefit from such
legislation. This letter serves to support the City of Cerritos in their efforts to submit of the

above mentioned resolution to the League of California Cities for consideration at the 2020
Annual Conference.

Sincerely,

Ernie H dez
City Manager

cc Blanca Pacheco, President, LA County Division/League of California Cities -
bpacheco@downeyea.org

Meg Desmond, League of California Cities - mdesmond@cacities.orq
Kristine Guerrero, LA County Division/League of California Cities - kguerrero@cacities.org
Kathy Matsumoto, Assistant City Manager, City of Cerritos — kmatsumoto@cerritos.us

21815 PIONEER BOULEVARD, HAWAIIAN GARDENS, CA 90716-1237 TEL: (562) 420-2641 FAX: (562) 496-3708

15

&nbsp;
212 of&nbsp;218


--- page 213 ---
feft Wood

Arivd Pe
Vice Ninvor

Couneil Member

Steve Crate
Conneit Member

Diane DuBois
Cotncil Measber

fodd Rogers
Maar

August 5, 2020

John Dunbar, President
jdunbar@yville.com
League of California Cities
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear President Dunbar:

On August 3, 2020, the Cerritos City Council approved to sponsor a Resolution of the City Council of the
City of Cerritos Submitting to the League of California Cities General Assembly a Proposed Resolution

Regarding Support of Legislation Related to Social Media Platform Accountability for Promotion of
Criminal Acts.

This proposed resolution. with the required background information, will be submitted to the League of
California Cities for consideration by the General Assembly at the Annual Conference on October 9, 2020.
(Attachments | and 2) The intent of the resolution is to address the use of social medial platforms for posting
information that leads followers to meet and commit crimes and to also hold these platforms and the persons

who post said information civilly and criminally accountable for all costs incurred by the local jurisdictions
where the crimes occurred.

This letter serves to support the City of Cerritos in their efforts to submit the above mentioned resolution to
the League of California Cities for consideration at the 2020 Annual Conference,

Sincerely,

I<
YY
Todd Rogers
Mayor

ce; Blanca Pacheco, President, LA County Division/League of California Cities - bpacheco@downeyca.org

Meg Desmond, League of California Cities - mdesmond@cacities.org
Kristine Guerrero, LA County Division/League of California Cities - kguerrero@cacities.org
Kathy Matsumoto, Assistant City Manager, City of Cerritos — kmatsumoto@cerritos.us

Lakewood

3050 Clark Avene, Lakes end, C4 90712 «© (562) 866-9771 © Fax (62) 866-0505 + wy Whthew oodcity org * Email: service Le itkew ondeity org

16

&nbsp;
213 of&nbsp;218


--- page 214 ---
CITY OF ONTARIO

303 EAST “B” STREET, CIVIC CENTER ONTARIO i, CALIFORNIA 91764-4105 (909) 395-2000
FAX (909) 395-2070
PAUL S. LEON SCOTT OCHOA
MAYOR CITY MANAGER
DEBRA DORST-PORADA
MAYOR PRO TEM August 6, 2020 annie
ALAN D. WAPNER
JiM W. BOWMAN JAMES R. MILHISER
RUBEN VALENCIA TREASURER
COUNCIL MEMBERS
John Dunbar, President

jdunbar@yville.com

League of California Cities
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear President Dunbar:

On August 3, 2020, the Cerritos City Council approved to sponsor a Resolution of the City Council of the City
of Cerritos Submitting to the League of California Cities General Assembly a Proposed Resolution
Regarding Support of Legislation Related to Social Media Platform Accountability for Promotion of
Criminal Acts.

This proposed resolution with the required background information will be submitted to the League of California
Cities for consideration by the General Assembly at the Annual Conference on October 9, 2020. (Attachments
1 and 2) The intent of the resolution is to address the use of social medial platforms for posting information that
leads followers to meet and commit crimes and to also hold these platforms and the persons who post said

information civilly and criminally accountable for all costs incurred by the local jurisdictions where the crimes
occurred,

This letter serves to support the City of Cerritos in their efforts to submit the above-mentioned resolution to the
League of California Cities for consideration at the 2020 Annual Conference.

Sincerely,

Alan D. Wapne ;

r
Council Member
League of California Cities Board Member

c: Blanca Pacheco, President, LA County Division/League of California Cities - bpacheco@downeyca.org
Meg Desmond, League of California Cities - mdesmond@cacities.org
Kristine Guerrero, LA County Division/League of California Cities - kguerrero@cacities.org
Kathy Matsumoto, Assistant City Manager, City of Cerritos — kmatsumoto@cerritos.us

&nbsp;
214 of&nbsp;218


--- page 215 ---
Mayor L. Dennis Michael | Mayor Pro Tem Lynne B. Kennedy
Council Members Ryan A. Hutchison, Kristine D. Scott, Sam Spagnolo
City Manager John R. Gillison

CITY OF RANCHO CUCAMONGA

@ 10500 Civic Center Drive | Rancho Cucamonga, CA 91730 | 909.477.2700 | www.CityofRC.us
a

August 6, 2020

John Dunbar, President
jdunbar@yville.com
League of California Cities
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear President Dunbar:

On August 3, 2020, the Cerritos City Council approved to sponsor a Resolution of the City Council of the City of Cerritos
Submitting to the League of California Cities General Assembly a Proposed Resolution Regarding Support of Legislation
Related to Social Media Platform Accountability for Promotion of Criminal Acts.

This proposed resolution with the required background information will be submitted to the League of California Cities
for consideration by the General Assembly at the Annual Conference on October 9, 2020. (Attachments 1 and 2) The
intent of the resolution is to address the use of social medial platforms for posting information that leads followers to
meet and commit crimes and to also hold these platforms and the persons who post said information civilly and criminally
accountable for all costs incurred by the local jurisdictions where the crimes occurred.

On behalf of the City of Rancho Cucamonga, this letter serves to support the City of Cerritos in their efforts to submit the
above mentioned resolution to the League of California Cities for consideration at the 2020 Annual Conference.

Sincerely,
W
oo

L. Dennis Michael
Mayor

ce: Blanca Pacheco, President, LA County Division/League of California Cities - bpacheco@downeyca.org
Meg Desmond, League of California Cities - mdesmond@cacities.org
Kristine Guerrero, LA County Division/League of California Cities - kguerrero@cacities.org
Kathy Matsumoto, Assistant City Manager, City of Cerritos — kmatsumoto@cerritos.us

18

&nbsp;
215 of&nbsp;218


--- page 216 ---
CITY OF SS Cityc i
ity Counci
ROS EVi LL FE sla Street

CALIFORNIA Roseville, California 95678

August 7, 2020

John Dunbar, President
jdunbar@yville.com
League of California Cities
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear President Dunbar:

On August 3, 2020, the Cerritos City Council approved to sponsor a Resolution of the City Council of the
City of Cerritos Submitting to the League of California Cities General Assembly a Proposed Resolution
Regarding Support of Legislation Related to Social Media Platform Accountability for Promotion of
Criminal Acts.

This proposed resolution with the required background information will be submitted to the League of
California Cities for consideration by the General Assembly at the Annual Conference on October 9, 2020.
(Attachments 1 and 2) The intent of the resolution is to address the use of social media platforms for posting
information that leads followers to meet and commit crimes and to also hold these platforms and the persons
who post said information civilly and criminally accountable for all costs incurred by the local jurisdictions
where the crimes occurred.

On behalf of the City of Roseville, this letter serves to support the City of Cerritos in their efforts to submit the
above mentioned resolution to the League of California Cities for consideration at the 2020 Annual
Conference.

Sincerely,

John B. Allard Il,
Mayor

Cc: Blanca Pacheco, President, LA County Division/League of California Cities - bpacheco@downeyca.org
Meg Desmond, League of California Cities - mdesmond@cacities.org
Kristine Guerrero, LA County Division/League of California Cities - kguerrero@cacities.org
Kathy Matsumoto, Assistant City Manager, City of Cerritos — kmatsumoto@cerritos.us
Jason Gonsalves, Joe A. Gonsalves and Son

916.774.5362 » Fax + 916.774.5485 TDD 916.774.5220 « citycouncil@roseville.ca.us * www.roseville.ca.us
19

&nbsp;
216 of&nbsp;218


--- page 217 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3707
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 05, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Consideration of Sponsorship of San Mateo-Foster City School District Education Foundation's Virtual Gala
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider adopting a Resolution to appropriate an amount determined by Council from the General Fund's Unassigned 
Fund Balance for the purpose of making a contribution to the San Mateo-Foster City Education Foundation's Virtual Gala.
BACKGROUND:
The City has received a sponsorship request from the San Mateo-Foster City Education Foundation for its inaugural virtual 
gala, "LIGHTS, CAMERA, AUCTION." The gala will take place on Friday, October 23rd at 7:00 p.m., and all proceeds will be 
contributed towards virtual learning innovation and resources. Sponsorship levels available include: 

$1,000: Community Challenge Partner 

$3,000: Bright Future Challenge Partner 

$5,000: Positive Change Ambassador Challenge Partner 

$10,000: Virtual Innovation Challenge Partner 

$20,000: For a Better Tomorrow Champion Challenge Partner 

$50,000: Lights, Camera, Virtual Auction Champion Challenge Partner 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Should Council choose to provide sponsorship funds to the San Mateo-Foster City School District Education Foundation's 
virtual gala, an appropriation will be made in the determined amount from the General Fund's Unassigned Fund Balance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
217 of 218

--- page 218 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROPRIATE $_______ FROM GENERAL FUND’S UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE TO MAKE CONTRIBUTION TO 
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY EDUCATION FOUNDATION’S VIRTUAL GALA
WHEREAS, the City has received a sponsorship request from the San Mateo-Foster City Education 
Foundation for its inaugural virtual gala, “LIGHTS, CAMERA, AUCTION”; and
WHEREAS, all proceeds will be contributed towards virtual learning innovation and resources; and
WHEREAS, sponsorship levels range from $1,000 to $50,000; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
$________ in unassigned fund balance from the General Fund is appropriated for the purpose of 
contributing to the San Mateo-Foster City Education Foundation’s Virtual Gala.
218 of 218