source: packet.pdf
sha256: 1e493d6e6ac9c88dc70d77c357ab6d9080202d0cdb0f17f4a06132ff1ec04395
pages: 9
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
January 13, 2021
7:00 PM
Remote Meeting
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN­PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here:  January 13, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638­0968 
 Conference ID:  873 3529 2448 Passcode: 305266
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes ‐ Approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of December 9,
2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff
for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects FY 20‐21 Q2 Update
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian
Advisory Committee, receive the 2020‐21 2nd Quarter update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
1 of 9

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the
posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record. 
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate
you want to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522‐7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 9

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 20-4031
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch 
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 13, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of December 9, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the December 9, 2020 meeting
3 of 9

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
December 9, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Adam Loraine 
MINUTES 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Reyes, Robbins, and Loraine 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 Motion by Vice Chair Nuñez to approve the minutes of November 12, 2020, seconded by 
Commissioner Reyes.  Motion carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:  4 -         Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Robbins, Loraine, and Reyes 
Abstain 1 -     Chair Rowinski 
 
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes – Approval 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request 
to Speak” form.  State law prevents the commission from Taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments 
may be referred to staff for further review. 
 
Mareva Godfrey, representing the Marina Lagoon Committee, spoke on issues related to the south 
end of the lagoon. 
 
Carol Steinfeld spoke on leaf blower use, stating the staff report did not mention other cities that 
banned leaf blowers and urged the City and Commission to continue the discussion on gas leaf 
blowers. 
 
Pam (no last name given), expressed disappointment on pushing the leaf blower ban to future 
meetings.  Concern about the particulates, noise, environmental issues, and stated that leaf litter is 
important to the eco system. 
 
Kristie Eglsaer spoke on issues related to gas leaf blowers; congratulated Public Works for using 
quick build solutions during the pandemic; request that Caltrans switch to automatic pedestrian 
signals along El Camino Real, helping the City achieve vision zero; and would like feedback on a 
bicycle/pedestrian sub-committee reporting to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. 
 
4 of 9

--- page 5 ---
NEW BUSINESS  
  
2. State Route (SR) 92/El Camino Real (SR 82) Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – 
Informational Update 
Cathi Zammit, Engineering Manager, asked the Commission to receive an update and provide 
feedback for the conceptual design of the State Route (SR) 92/El Camino Real (SR 82) Interchange 
Landscape Improvements Project.  Consultants Gordon Sweet, Vice President and Carmelo Cecilio, 
Project Manager from BFK, and Chuck Gardella, Principal and Dylan Buterbaugh, Job Captain, from 
Gates + Associates, were also available to answer questions. 
 
Public comment.  None 
 
No motion needed for this informational item. 
 
3. Overview of City Stormwater System Management Activities  
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager, asked the Commission to receive information on 
unfunded stormwater system activities. 
 
Public Comment. 
The following spoke to the item:  Mareva Godfrey, Robert Whitehair, and Heidi Moser. 
 
No motion needed for this informational item. 
 
4. Sustainability Program and Public Works Department Work Plans 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst and Brad Underwood, Public Works Director, asked the 
Commission to receive an informational report highlighting the Sustainability Program and Public 
Works Department Work Plans for FY 20-21 and FY 21-22. 
 
Public Comment. 
The following spoke to the item:  Kristie Eglsaer, Alan Mattlage, Robert Whitehair, and Carol Steinfeld. 
 
No motion needed for this informational item. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
The Commissioners spoke on the service and dedication Director Underwood provided to the City, the 
Commissioners, staff, and the community during the last six years.  The Commissioners wished him 
well in his next chapter. 
 
Vice Chair Nuñez stated the Sustainability Streets Masterplan is open for public input until January 6, 
2021. 
 
Commissioner Loraine announced his re-commitment to the Adopt-A-Drain Program.  More 
information on the program can be found at www.cityofsanmateo.org/3715/Adopt-A-Drain.  
Commissioner Loraine also encouraged residents to individually clean-up around their home and 
neighborhood, following safe protocols.  North Central (HANCSM) is inviting residents to individually 
clean up their neighborhood from 10:00am to 12:00pm on Saturday, December 12.   
 
5 of 9

--- page 6 ---
Commissioners Reyes and Nuñez would like Cal Water to return and speak on Urban Water 
Management Plan. 
 
Vice Chair Nuñez would like to hear more about the potential bike issues from South Delaware 
between 1st and 5th Avenue and have this discussed at a future meeting. 
 
The Commissioners congratulated Azalea Mitch on her Acting Public Works Director position. 
 
Director Underwood summarized potential agenda items for January; Storm Water Activity Funding 
Analysis, Review and Approval of Verizon Small Cell Applications, and the Bicycle/Pedestrian Update.  
The Public Works City-Wide Maintenance Plan is tentatively scheduled for February. 
 
Director Underwood thanked the Commission for their kind words and support during the last six 
years. 
 
  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding 
each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be 
available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to 
participate in this meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the 
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 9

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-4030
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 13, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects FY 20-21 Q2 Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive the 2020-21 2nd Quarter update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and grant efforts.
Infrastructure Projects

North San Mateo Drive Complete Streets: This project consists of the implementation of a road diet converting 
the existing four-lane roadway to two-lanes with a center turn lane and bicycle lanes from Poplar Avenue to 
Peninsula Avenue. Additionally, the project will install bike lanes between Poplar Avenue and Catalpa Street 
and includes one mile of bicycle lanes and a bicycle boulevard, green infrastructure, pedestrian countdown 
signals, and curb extensions. 
o
Q2 Update: To date, most of the curb ramps have been constructed, and the green infrastructure 
elements are partially complete. New traffic signal poles are expected in mid-January, with slurry seal, 
striping, and pavement markings anticipated to begin in early spring. The project is currently on-track 
for completion in mid- to late-April.

28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard: The bicycle boulevard will be implemented in two segments on 28th Avenue. 
The first, planned for installation between Mason Lane and El Camino Real, includes a curb extension at 
Hacienda Street, a speed table (elevated crosswalk), pavement markings, and wayfinding signage. 
o
Q2 Update: The project was awarded for construction; procurement delays have pushed the 
estimated start date for construction to February 2021 with expected completion in early May.  
o
A second portion of bicycle boulevard is planned for implementation east of El Camino Real, between 
West Kyne Street and Saratoga Drive. This portion of 28th Avenue was included in the City’s Safe 
Streets program, and the permanent bicycle boulevard implementation including pavement markings 
and wayfinding signage is expected to be complete in January 2021. 

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program: The City receives federal funding from the U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the CDBG program and allocates the funds based 
on community priorities. 
o
Q2 Update: In addition to the carryover funds from prior years, the FY 2020-21 funds, and estimated 
FY 2021-22 funds, City Council recently approved allocation of previously unbudgeted CDBG funds 
7 of 9

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
toward bicycle and pedestrian improvements, for a total estimated budget of approximately $1 
million.
o
The projects identified for implementation with these funds are the projects identified as the 2nd and 
4th highest priority projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. These projects include a bicycle boulevard 
and bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street and bicycle lanes on Poplar and Indian Avenues to connect to 
the aforementioned North San Mateo Drive project. Staff will begin identifying preliminary design 
options and develop community engagement tools. 

Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety: This project aims to design pedestrian safety improvements at 
the entrances and exits of Central Parking Garage, Main Street Parking Garage, and the 2nd and El Camino Real 
Parking Garage. 
o
Q2 Update: The project completed Phase 1 (outreach and initial recommendations), and is currently in 
Phase 2, which will develop final design drawings and specifications and is scheduled for completion 
by the end of this fiscal year.
Planning Projects

Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan: The City was awarded Transportation Development Act 
(TDA) Article 3 funds for this project, which will evaluate the full pedestrian path of travel to the City’s high-quality 
transit stops. The Plan will identify necessary improvements to create safe and comfortable pedestrian realm 
within one-half mile of those locations. 
o
Q2 Update: Staff released the Request for Proposals (RFP) for this project, and proposals are due by 
January 22. Consultant selection and contract award is expected to follow shortly thereafter.
Grant Efforts

San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5: Staff submitted an 
application under this call for projects to fund design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
Bicycle Access Gap Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate design options for the Class IV separated bike 
lane implementation identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian 
connectivity across the intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. Staff recently received notification that the 
TA Board of Directors approved the project for funding. 

Caltrans Sustainable Communities Grant: Caltrans recently opened the FY 2021-22 grant program for the 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grants. Staff intends to submit an application for the San Mateo Complete 
Streets Plan, which will serve to bring together the City’s various active transportation plans and Green 
Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a multimodal transportation network for the City. Staff intends to utilize a 
data-driven approach through evaluation of collision data and other data sources, together with the current 
adopted plans, to identify priority areas and key projects for Complete Streets design. This effort is in conjunction 
with the General Plan 2040 update, to align the City’s roadway network with the multimodal accessibility that is 
envisioned in the upcoming General Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with hearing the quarterly program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This quarterly bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
8 of 9

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
9 of 9