Yuba County Sheriffs Office
Transparency Portal

Last Updated: Tue Apr 14 2026

Overview

Yuba County CA SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Yuba County CA SO utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Yuba County CA SO utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Policies

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Yuba County CA SO and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
Usage

Number of LPR and other cameras

40

Hotlists Alerted On

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

251,701

Searches in the last 30 days

511

Public Search Audit

Download CSV
Additional Info

Yuba County SO - Facebook Post - LPR Fact versus Fiction

A technology that helped identify and arrest a homicide suspect within hours! Flock LPRs: lets talk about the facts  and clear up the fiction. Ever since Flock Safety license plate reader cameras were installed throughout Yuba County in November 2022, theyve helped deputies solve case after case. Stolen vehicles recovered. Suspects identified. Crimes connected. Real investigations, real victims, real results. But along with good technology comes some creative storytelling. So, let's clear a few things up. The cameras do NOT identify drivers or passengers : They do NOT spy on what youre doing inside your vehicle: They do NOT record your road trip playlist: They are NOT used to issue speeding tickets or other traffic violations: They DO capture license plates and vehicle details to help law enforcement investigate crimes: They DO provide time-stamped data that helps connect cases and locate suspect vehicles: They DO help us keep our community safer. Think of them like a really smart notebook that remember vehicles, not people. We get it. New technology can feel a little Big Brother-ish. But if youre worried about being tracked everywhere you go& your cell phone would like a word. The goal here is simple: protect our community using tools that help deputies solve crimes faster and more efficiently, while respecting privacy and staying within the law. Yuba County Sheriff's Department

Facebook Link: https://www.facebook.com/reel/912823958012149


ALPR Policy

https://files4.revize.com/yubaca/Yuba%20County/Sheriff/ALPR%20policy%2010-20-22.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety