source: packet.pdf
sha256: 8eec9e36f1b5473dcc48417b6118d2c4720b54535f4278630dd695346a7ef07a
pages: 382
ocr_pages: 28
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
December 9, 2025
7:00 PM
Oak Room – Main Library
55 W 3  Ave, San Mateo, CA
94402
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Klafter, Vice Chair
Caiti Busch
Maxwell Schaumkel
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 9, 2025 
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 875 7887 2825     Passcode: 672662
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
This meeting is being held at the San Mateo Main Public Library – Oak Room due to construction at City
Hall, as authorized by City Charter Section 2.10.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
2033 La Salle Drive - Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Code Amendment, Special Use Permit (SUP), Site Plan and
Architectural Review (SPAR), and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for an Early Childhood Education
Center (PA-2025-012)
Recommend that the City Council adopt an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification from R1-B to R1-B/Q8,
and a Zoning Code Amendment to provide development standards for an educational facility; and adopt a
rd

--- page 2 ---
Resolution to approve the Planning Application (SPAR, SUP and SDPA) for the establishment and construction of
an Early Childhood Education Center subject to the findings for approval and conditions of approval.
CEQA: The proposed Zoning Reclassification and Zoning Map Amendment are exempt from California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines pursuant to Common Sense Exemption (14 CCR Section 15061(b)(3)).
 The development of the Project itself is categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15303, New Construction or Conversion of Small Structures (Class 3).
2.
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance – Zoning Code Amendments
Recommend that the City Council introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter
27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments
from the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) to align with current state law,
and to address Housing Element programs.
CEQA: The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA
Guidelines because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the Government
Code related to ADUs and JADUs.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10649
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 09, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2033 La Salle Drive - Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Code Amendment, Special Use Permit (SUP), Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR), and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for an Early Childhood Education Center 
(PA-2025-012)
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend that the City Council:
2)
Adopt an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification from R1-B to R1-B/Q8, and a Zoning Code Amendment to 
provide development standards for an educational facility and find it exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 
15061(b)(3) (Common Sense Exemption); and
2)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Planning Application (SPAR, SUP and SDPA) for the establishment and 
construction of an Early Childhood Education Center subject to the findings for approval and conditions of approval, 
and find it exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 15303 (Small Structures Exemption).
BACKGROUND:
The Carey School is a private educational institution serving students from pre-kindergarten through fifth grade. Since 1955, 
the school has operated a K–5 campus at 1 Carey Lane, which is adjacent to the Project site at 2033 La Salle Drive.  The 
preschool program is currently located off-site at 3900 Alameda de las Pulgas within the Transfiguration Church.  The Carey 
School is seeking approval to construct an Early Childhood Education Center at the Project site to relocate its preschool 
program adjacent to its existing campus.
 
In 2019, the City Council adopted an ordinance establishing the Qualified Overlay District 8 (Q8) and amended the zoning 
map to rezone the existing Carey School campus at 1 Carey Lane from R1-B to R1-B/Q8.  The overlay was created to provide 
development standards that reflect the unique characteristics of the site and use within the residential zoning district. The 
current request seeks to extend the existing Q8 overlay and amend the zoning map to include the Project site within the 
same overlay district.
 
SITE DESCRIPTION:
The 0.6-acre Project site (26,380 square feet) consists of a single parcel currently developed with an 1,851 square foot single-
family residence and a 640 square-foot attached accessory dwelling unit, which was approved in 1986.  A private creek runs 
along the southern boundary of the site.  The property is accessed via a cul-de-sac and is directly adjacent to the main Carey 
School campus at 1 Carey Lane.  Surrounding uses include single-family residential development to the north, Junipero Serra 
High School to the east, the existing Carey School campus to the south, and multi-family apartments to the west across La 
Salle Drive.
 
The site has a General Plan land use designation of Residential Very Low and is zoned R1-B (One Family Dwellings).  A location

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
map showing the Project and its vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The applicant proposes to demolish the existing dwelling units and accessory structures and redevelop the site with a new 
Early Childhood Education Center.  The Project includes construction of a one-story, 5,908 square-foot building and 
associated site improvements.  The building would include six classrooms designed to accommodate up to 75 preschool-
aged children (ages 2–5 years) and 16 teachers.  Ancillary and support spaces would include a reception area, administrative 
office, and teacher workroom.  The Project also includes a trash enclosure, an outdoor play area located on the south side 
of the site, and a teaching garden on the north side.  Additional site improvements include installation of a new seven-foot 
tall perimeter fence, landscaping, and on-site parking with a one-way circular driveway.  An off-site parking facility located 
at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, within 1,000 feet of the site, is also proposed for use by the Project. A cover letter from 
the applicant with additional information about the proposed use is included as Attachment 3, and the Project plans are 
included as Attachment 4.
 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
 
State and Local Laws
The Project involves the demolition of one owner-occupied single-family residence and one accessory dwelling unit (ADU), 
and no replacement housing is required by the Housing Crisis Act.  The Project is not considered a “housing development 
project” per State law because an educational facility will be built, not housing. At the time of application submittal, in 
February 2025, the ADU was rented to tenants with incomes above the applicable affordable income thresholds.  Thus, there 
are no “protected units,” (as defined under Government Code Section 66300.5(h)) that would need to be replaced, even 
though the Project involves the demolition of existing residential units. Also, tenant relocation payments required in the San 
Mateo Municipal Code do not apply in this case because the tenant vacated the ADU in August 2025, prior to the application 
being deemed complete.  
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan land use designation for the Project site is Residential Very Low.  The proposed Project provides a 
neighborhood-serving use, childcare within a residential district, which is supported by Policy LU 3.5 and PSF 6.5.  A list of 
applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the Project’s conformance to them is included in the Resolution in 
Attachment 1. San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.06.040(b) requires that the Planning Commission make a written 
recommendation to the City Council for Projects which include reclassifications and zoning code amendments.
 
Zoning Reclassification and Zoning Code Amendment
The applicant is requesting a Zoning Reclassification from R1-B (One Family Dwellings) to R1-B/Q8 (One Family Dwellings 
/Qualified Overlay District 8) and an amendment to the Q8 overlay to provide development standards for the Early Childhood 
Education Center.  The City has previously applied Qualified Overlay designations to private educational facilities to address 
site-specific operational needs, including St. Matthew’s Catholic Parish and School (Q7) and Junipero Serra High School (Q6).  
These overlays established alternative floor area, parking, and development standards tailored to the educational use of 
these properties. 
 
The Qualified Overlay District 8 (Q8) was originally adopted in 2019 for the existing Carey School campus to allow an increase 
in floor area ratio (FAR) and to accommodate off-site parking within 1,000 feet of the site. The applicant is proposing to 
extend the boundaries of the Q8 Overlay to include the Project site and to amend the overlay to establish development 
standards appropriate for educational facilities located within R1 zoning districts.
The Project requires a total of 23 parking spaces to serve 75 students and 16 staff members. A total of 11 parking spaces are 
provided on-site. The Project includes a request to amend the Q8 Overlay to allow on-site, uncovered parking within the 
front setback. Pursuant to SMMC Section 27.18.110(c), required parking may not be located within the front or side yard 
setback in One Family Dwellings districts. The requested amendment to the Q8 Overlay would legally allow for parking in

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the front setback.  
An off-site parking facility located at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, within 1,000 feet of the Project site, will provide 15 
additional parking spaces.  While the base R1-B zoning requires parking to be located on the same parcel or within 200 feet 
of the site, the existing Q8 Overlay allows off-site parking within a 1,000-foot radius. Extending the Q8 Overlay to include 
the Project site will enable compliance with the off-site parking facility requirement.
Another requested amendment to the Q8 Overlay relates to the awning in the rear yard. The R1-B district allows projection 
of awnings up to eight feet in height within the rear yard setback. The Q8 Overlay is proposed to be amended to allow 
awnings up to nine feet in height to project into the rear yard setback.  Although the Q8 Overlay allows for a higher floor 
area ratio (FAR) than typically allowed in the R1-B zone, the proposed building, at 5,908 square feet, conforms to the base 
R1-B FAR requirement (0.5 for parcels up to 6,000 square feet, plus 0.2 for additional area over 6,000 square feet, not to 
exceed 6,000 square feet).  The proposed zoning code amendments are included in the Resolution (Attachment 1), and the 
proposed amendment language in track changes is included in Attachment 5.
 
Extending and amending the Q8 Overlay for the Early Childhood Education Center maintains consistency with prior Q 
overlays for private institutions.  While educational facilities are allowed in One Family Dwellings districts through a Special 
Use Permit (SUP), the proposed zoning reclassification and code amendments would facilitate implementation of General 
Plan policies, while ensuring that development standards remain compatible with the surrounding residential neighborhood 
and that regulatory oversight is maintained.  With the adoption of the proposed overlay, the Project will conform to all 
applicable zoning code standards.  A Factual Data Sheet listing the applicable zoning standards and the Project’s 
conformance to them is included as Attachment 6.
 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The Project requires Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.08.030 for 
the construction of a new private educational facility.  The proposed development consists of a one-story building totaling 
5,908 square feet, along with associated site improvements.  The facility would include six classrooms designed to serve up 
to 75 preschool-aged children (ages 2–5) with 16 staff members.  Ancillary spaces include a reception area, administrative 
office, and teacher workroom. 
 
Vehicular access is provided via a one-way circular driveway from La Salle Drive, and one loading berth is provided along the 
street frontage of the site. Off-site loading space is permitted through SPAR and requires approval from the Public Works 
Department for both the space location and the associated encroachment permit. The Public Works Department has 
determined that there is adequate space within the public street right-of-way along the parcel frontage to accommodate 
the loading facility. Eleven on-site parking spaces are provided at the front of the property, with the remaining 12 spaces 
proposed off-site at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas.  Landscaping and site improvements include the installation of 29 
new trees along the site perimeter, which screen the front parking area, a new seven-foot-tall perimeter fence, and a new 
trash enclosure.  Additional outdoor features include the play area and teaching garden, and a private creek that runs along 
the southern edge of the site.  The proposed Project maintains appropriate setbacks from the creek to avoid any impacts.  
The Project’s Riparian Assessment is included as Attachment 10. The play area is situated on the south side of the building, 
adjacent to the existing Carey School campus, to minimize potential noise impacts on the single-family residences to the 
north.
 
The proposed one-story stucco building is compatible in scale and architectural character with surrounding residential 
buildings and adjacent Carey School campus.  It complies with R1-B building height and plate height requirements and utilizes 
materials consistent with the character of the neighborhood.  Overall, the Project design supports orderly and harmonious 
development of the site, complies with applicable development standards and General Plan policies, and would not result 
in adverse impacts. Detailed SPAR findings are provided in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
 
Special Use Permit (SUP)
The applicant proposes to establish an Early Childhood Education Center within the One Family Dwellings (R1-B) zoning 
district. Pursuant to SMMC Section 27.18.30, private educational facilities are allowed in the R1 zoning district with approval

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of a Special Use Permit (SUP).  Other private educational institutions located within the R1-B zoning district with a Q overlay 
include St. Matthew’s Catholic Parish and School (Q7) and Junipero Serra High School (Q6).  Therefore, there is precedent 
for establishing educational facilities in single-family residential districts through the SUP process.  Additionally, the 
proposed use is compatible with the adjacent Carey School campus and Serra High School. 
 
The Q8 overlay zone also requires that all uses within the overlay obtain a SUP.  The Special Use Permit includes conditions 
of approval that regulate enrollment, hours of operation, and on-site activities.  Accordingly, the operation of the proposed 
use would be regulated through conditions of approval as required by SUP.  Additionally, a SUP is required for the substantial 
removal of an existing single-family residence and off-site parking facility. Because the existing residence is proposed to be 
replaced with a private educational facility, the findings for substantial removal of a residence can be made.  A detailed 
discussion on the off-site parking facility is provided in the following section. Findings and the Conditions of Approval are 
included in Attachment 1.
 
Parking and Traffic Analysis
 
Trip Generation 
A Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum for the Project was prepared by Kimley-Horn (Attachment 7).  The Carey 
School currently operates a pre-school facility at 3900 Alameda de las Pulgas, which is proposed to be relocated to the 
Project site. Based on enrollment data from the past six years provided by the applicant, at least 50% of the students at the 
existing elementary school have siblings who attend the current pre-school program.  This indicates that at least 50% of trips 
generated by the proposed Project would overlap with existing trips to the main Carey School site adjacent to the Project 
site.  While the data shows an average of 60% trips overlapping for the past 6 years, a conservative estimate based on the 
lowest observed percentage over the six most recent school years (50%) was applied to the analysis. 
 
The trip generation analysis was prepared based on the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) average trip generation 
rates for the proposed use.  A 50% carpool trip reduction was applied, reflecting that approximately 50% of students at the 
Early Childhood Education Center who have siblings attending the existing elementary school and would carpool.  The 
proposed Project is expected to generate a net increase of 133 daily trips, including 28 net new trips during the AM peak 
hour, 27 net new trips during the school PM peak hour (3:00pm), and 27 net new trips during the PM peak hour.
 
Vehicle Miles Traveled
The project is exempt from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15064.3.  Under CEQA, Projects that do not exceed applicable thresholds of significance are presumed to 
have a less-than-significant VMT impact. The City has established these thresholds in its Traffic Impact Analysis Guidelines.  
According to the guidelines, local-serving retail and public service uses of 50,000 square feet or less are generally presumed 
to have a less-than-significant impact. The guidelines allow the determination of a local-serving use based on a Project’s 
location, characteristics, surrounding area, and the types of goods or services provided. Schools and educational facilities 
are recognized by the City and many other jurisdictions as local-serving uses due to their operational characteristics.  It is 
common practice to evaluate whether a proposed use generates travel patterns similar to those of retail uses identified in 
the guidelines.  This approach is consistent with the reasoning applied to retail uses, which typically redistribute existing 
trips rather than generate new ones. Similarly, educational facilities generally do not create new students; rather, students 
shift enrollment from other schools. Accordingly, the proposed educational facility while relocating operations from 3900 
Alameda de las Pulgas to the Project site is expected to redistribute existing trips rather than generate new trips.  Therefore, 
the facility qualifies as a local-serving use under 50,000 square feet and is therefore exempt from VMT analysis.
 
Local Transportation Analysis
While the Project is exempt from VMT analysis under CEQA, it is required to comply with the Local Transportation Analysis 
of the City’s Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines.  In accordance with these guidelines, a traffic operations study was 
conducted for the nearest intersection at W. 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive.  The analysis evaluated intersection 
performance during the AM, school PM, and commute PM peak hours using collected traffic counts.
 
The traffic study evaluated Level of Service (LOS) and vehicle queuing to assess potential changes in traffic operations

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
resulting from the Project.  Incorporating a 50% carpool rate, the analysis concluded that the intersection would continue 
to operate at an acceptable level of LOS C or better during all peak periods.  Condition 56 has been included to ensure that 
an average trip overlap with Carey School of at least 50% is maintained throughout Project operations.
 
A queuing analysis was conducted to evaluate potential vehicle queues within the La Salle cul-de-sac and the Project 
driveway. As a conservative approach, the arrival rate assumed that all peak-hour vehicles would arrive in a linear 
distribution within the 25-minute peak period. Overall, the Project is expected to result in a queue of approximately 2.5 
vehicles within the parking lot and increase existing La Salle cul-de-sac queues by no more than one vehicle (approximately 
25 feet). Thus, the Project complies with the City’s Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines. 
 
Parking and Circulation
The proposed Project requires 23 parking spaces pursuant to SMMC Section 27.64.160.  The Project provides 11 parking 
spaces on-site and utilizes an off-site parking facility located at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas to accommodate an 
additional 15 parking spaces.  With the off-site parking spaces, the total parking supply exceeds the requirement by three 
spaces.  Of the on-site spaces, one parking will be designated for the School Director, while all remaining staff will utilize the 
off-site parking facility at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas.  The remaining ten on-site spaces will be reserved exclusively 
for parent drop-off and pick-up activities. The off-site parking facility is located approximately 500 feet from the Project site, 
which is consistent with the Q8 Overlay provisions that allow off-site parking within 1,000 feet of the primary use.
 
A parking analysis was conducted to confirm that adequate parking capacity would remain available at 1900–2000 Alameda 
de las Pulgas after leasing 15 spaces to the Carey School.  The Carey School maintains a shared parking agreement 
(Attachment 9) with the property owner for 45 parking spaces, of which 30 spaces are allocated to the existing Carey School 
campus under its current use permit (PA-2018-069), and 15 spaces will be assigned to the proposed Project. Based on the 
City’s parking standards, the 1900 Alameda building is classified as Laboratory (R&D) use, and the 2000 Alameda building is 
classified as Office use.  The combined minimum parking requirement for the site is 713 spaces.  A total of 801 parking spaces 
is provided, exceeding the requirement by 88 spaces.  After accounting for the 45 spaces leased to the Carey School, a surplus 
of 43 spaces would remain available on-site.  Per Condition 64, the school must maintain a shared parking agreement for 
the use of off-site parking spaces at 1900–2000 Alameda de las Pulgas for the duration of its occupancy of the subject 
property.  The parking analysis is provided in Attachment 7.
 
The Project is required to release a Parking and Traffic Management Plan to provide a circulation plan for locations and times 
for drop-off and pick-up to school parents on an annual basis (Attachment 8).  This plan updates the previous operation plan 
approved under the Carey School’s existing use permit to account for overlapping trips between the main campus and the 
proposed Early Childhood Education Center. The plan identifies designated drop-off and pick-up locations for each age 
group, outlines procedures, and establishes a monitoring program to ensure safe and efficient circulation.  The school will 
provide five dedicated staff to monitor and direct traffic during drop-off and pick-up periods in accordance with the Parking 
and Traffic Management Plan.  Condition 61 requires that the school distribute an updated Parking and Traffic Plan annually 
to parents, detailing circulation routes and assigned times and location for student drop-off and pick-up.  
 
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code Section 65854, notice of this public hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper more than twenty days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government 
Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public hearing was noticed to the following 
parties more than twenty days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
 

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the Project site.

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the Project notification list.
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Public comments submitted to staff during the formal planning application review are included in Attachment 11. To date, 
five community members have submitted multiple comments raising concerns about the Project, including two letters 
addressing CEQA and traffic concerns, as well as a petition opposing the Project with more than 40 signatures. The comments 
expressed concern about the traffic, parking, noise and environmental impact of the Project. Staff has also received six 
letters in support of the Project, including a petition with over 50 signatures. Any additional public comments submitted 
after agenda publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Zoning Reclassification and Zoning Map Amendment are exempt from California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines pursuant to Common Sense Exemption (14 CCR Section 15061(b)(3)).  The Common Sense exemption applies to 
Projects “Where it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant 
effect on the environment, the activity is not subject to CEQA.”  The proposed reclassification to extend the Q8 overlay, 
while retaining the underlying R1-B zoning, has no potential to cause a physical change to the environment.  The amendment 
is administrative in nature and does not, by itself, authorize any physical development, demolition, or land disturbance. 
Future physical improvements or changes in use on the site would remain subject to separate discretionary approvals, 
including a SPAR and a SUP, as required under Municipal Code Section 27.60.180(h) (Qualified Overlay District 8).
 
The proposed Zoning Reclassification and Map Amendment modifies the zoning designation to apply existing overlay 
standards and do not result in any direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical impacts on the environment. Therefore, 
the Zoning Reclassification and Zoning Map Amendment qualify for exemption under CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
 
The development of the Project itself is categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant 
to CEQA Guidelines Section 15303, New Construction or Conversion of Small Structures (Class 3). The Project is consistent 
with the example provided under Section 15303(c), which includes “a store, motel, office, restaurant, or similar structure in 
urbanized areas.” The exemption also applies to up to four such commercial buildings not exceeding 10,000 square feet in 
floor area on sites zoned for such use, provided the Project does not involve the use of significant amounts of hazardous 
substances, that all necessary public services and facilities are available, and that the surrounding area is not environmentally 
sensitive.
 
Specifically, the proposed Project meets the criteria for this exemption as it:

Is located within an urbanized area;

Has a total floor area of less than 10,000 square feet;

Is located on a site zoned for the proposed use, as the base R1-B zoning district allows educational facilities with 
approval of a Special Use Permit (SUP);

Does not involve the use of significant amounts of hazardous substances; and

Is not located in an environmentally sensitive area, as demonstrated in the Riparian Setback Assessment 
(Attachment 10), which confirms that the on-site creek contains no riparian vegetation and does not support 
wetland habitat.
For these reasons, the proposed Project qualifies for a categorical exemption under CEQA Guidelines Section 15303.
ATTACHMENTS

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 1 – Planning Commission Resolution 
Exhibit A- Draft Ordinance for Zoning Reclassification and Zoning Code Amendment 
Exhibit B– Draft City Council Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Applicant Cover Letter and Project Description
Att 4 – Project Plans 
Att 5 – Zoning Code Amendments (Track Changes)
Att 6 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 7 – Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum Dated November 11, 2025
Att 8 – Parking and Traffic Management Plan 
Att 9 – Parking Agreement
Att 10 – Riparian Setback Assessment
Att 11 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Simin Zakavand, Associate Planner
szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)  
  
A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, RECOMMENDING 
AMENDING TITLE 27 OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICAPAL CODE RELATED TO QUALIFIED OVERLAY 8 (Q8), 
AMENDING THE ZONING MAP OF THE ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO TO REZONE THE SITE 
AT 2033 LA SALLE DRIVE FROM R1-B TO R1-B/Q8, AND APPROVING THE SITE PLAN AND 
ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR), SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP), AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATION (SDPA) FOR DEVELOPMENT OF AN EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION CENTER AT 2033 LA 
SALLE DRIVE 
 
WHEREAS, the Carey School (hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted Planning 
Application No. PA-2025-012  on February 14, 2025 for a Zoning Reclassiﬁcation, Zoning Map Amendment, 
Site Plan and Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning Approval to rezone 
the property located at 2033 La Salle Drive from R1-B to R1-B/Q8, amend the Q8 overlay, and to establish 
and construct an early childhood education center at the same location (collectively referred to as the 
“Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the General Plan’s Public Services Facilities Element has a goal to “foster the healthy 
development and education of children of all abilities, incomes, and backgrounds,” and a speciﬁc policy 
that encourages childcare centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet the City standards (Policy 
PSF 6.5); and 
 
WHEREAS, educational facilities are permitted in the R1-B zoning district with a Special Use Permit, 
and the Q8 overlay was established to provide ﬂexible development standards to support educational 
facilities within the R1-B zoning district; and 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 65854, notice of the public hearing was 
published in the San Mateo Daily Journal, and property owners, residential tenants, and business tenants 
within one thousand (1,000) feet of the project site were notiﬁed at least twenty (20) days prior to the 
Planning Commission meeting; and 
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, at 
which time the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and by a vote of 
_________ recommended that the City Council approve the Zoning Reclassiﬁcation, Zoning Map 
Amendment, Site Plan and Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning 
Application subject to the listed Findings for Approval and Conditions of Approval for Planning Application 
No. PA-2025-012.  
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY ﬁnds and determines that, based on substantial evidence in the record: 
1. The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council adopt the Ordinance (Exhibit A) to 
approve a Zoning Reclassiﬁcation from R1-B to R1-B/Q8, and a Zoning Code Amendment to 
provide development standards for an educational facility. The proposed zoning amendment to 
One Family Dwellings, Qualiﬁed District Overlay 8 is in conformance with the Residential Very Low 
land use designation of the General Plan of the City of San Mateo, because it establishes

--- page 11 ---
development standards for an educational facility that provides childcare services within a 
residential district, which is encouraged by the General Plan. 
2. The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council, pursuant to California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Common Sense exemption Section 15061(b)(3), determine the 
zoning reclassiﬁcation and the zoning map amendment is exempt from further environmental 
review because the zoning overlay does not authorize any physical development or ground 
disturbance on the Site that would result in any physical changes to the environment. 
3. The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council adopt the Resolution (Exhibit B) to 
approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development 
Planning Application for the establishment and construction of an early childhood education 
center in R1-B zoning district. The project includes construction of a one-story, 5,908 square-foot 
building which is compatible in scale and architectural character with surrounding residential 
buildings. Additionally, the operation is regulated through conditions of approval as required by a 
Special Use Permit.   
4. The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council, pursuant to Section 15303 (Class 3) 
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, determine that the proposed 
development is exempt from further environmental review because it involves the construction 
of a structure of less than 10,000 square feet within an urbanized area, does not involve the use 
of signiﬁcant amounts of hazardous substances, and is not located within an environmentally 
sensitive area.

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE NO. ____ (2025) 
AMENDING TITLE 27 OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE, RELATED TO QUALIFIED OVERLAY 8 (Q8) 
DISTRICTS TO ESTABLISH DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR THE PROPOSED EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION 
CENTER IN THE Q8 OVERLAY AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO TO REZONE THE 
SITE AT 2033 LA SALLE DRIVE FROM R1-B (ONE FAMILY DWELLINGS) TO R1-B/Q8 (ONE FAMILY DWELLINGS, 
QUALIFIED OVERLAY DISTRICT 8) 
WHEREAS, on June 17, 2019, the City Council established the Qualified Overlay District 8 (Q8) designation 
to provide for the development of land pursuant to standards and regulations that reflect the unique 
characteristics of educational facilities within residential districts; and 
WHEREAS, the Carey School (hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted Planning Application 
No. PA‐2025‐012 to the Planning Division for a Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Map Amendment, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning Application to rezone the property 
located at 2033 La Salle Drive from R1-B to R1-B/Q8, and to establish and construct an early childhood education 
center at the same location (collectively referred to as the “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and  
WHEREAS, the City has previously applied Qualified Overlay designations to private educational facilities 
to address site-specific operational needs; and  
WHEREAS, the General Plan 2040 Public Services Facilities Element has a goal to “foster the healthy 
development and education of children of all abilities, incomes, and backgrounds,” (Goal PSF-6) and a specific 
policy that encourages childcare centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet the City standards (Policy 
PSF 6.5); and  
WHEREAS, educational facilities are permitted in the R1-B zoning district with a Special Use Permit; 
however, the single-family development standards do not address the site-specific operational needs of such 
facilities; and  
WHEREAS, the Q8 Overlay addresses the unique characteristics of the educational facility, while limiting 
the uses on the site and protecting the surrounding uses by requiring a Special Use Permit for all uses within this 
overlay; and  
WHEREAS, the zoning reclassification from R1-B to R1-B/Q8 and zoning code amendment would 
implement the General Plan by establishing site specific development standards for an educational facility that 
provides childcare services while protecting the surrounding users; and  
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, at which 
time the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and by a vote of ________ 
recommended that the City Council approve the Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Map Amendment, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning Application, subject to the Findings for 
Approval and Conditions of Approval for Planning Application No. PA‐2025‐012; and

--- page 13 ---
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the proposed rezoning and zoning code amendments are 
consistent with the City’s General Plan because the Q8 overlay zone authorizes deviations from the standards of 
the underlying R1-B zoning district, the Project includes a Special Use Permit that limits uses on the site and 
protects the surrounding neighborhood, and the Project otherwise conforms with the Residential Very Low land 
use designation of the site.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. Subsection (h) of Section 27.60.180 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
(h) Q8 (Qualified Overlay District 8) - Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations and 
conditions shall pertain to the use of the property zoned Q8: 
(1) Uses. All uses in this district shall require a special use permit, as set forth in Chapter 27.74 of 
the Zoning Code. 
(2) Development.  Future development in this district shall comply with the site plans and 
conditions of approval in all applicable Planning Applications. Development standards include allowance 
of awning up to nine (9) feet in height within the rear yard setback. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio.  This district shall have a maximum floor area ratio of 0.39. 
(4) Parking.  Off-site parking facilities shall not be located in excess of 1,000 feet from the 
project site. Uncovered parking may be allowed within the front and side setback. 
(5)  Signage. Signage on the site shall be allowed in accordance with Title 25 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code. 
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, the proposed zoning reclassification and the zoning map amendment are exempt from further 
environmental review pursuant to the “Common Sense” exemption (14 CCR Section 15061(b)(3)). The Common 
Sense exemption applies where it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility the activity may have a 
significant effect on the environment. The proposed zoning reclassification and zoning overlay do not authorize 
physical development or ground disturbance on the site. Rather, the amendment provides additional allowances 
for potential future use of the site as an educational facility; it does not approve a specific development proposal 
or permit construction activities. 
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.60.180(h), all uses within the Q8 Overlay require approval of a Special Use 
Permit (SUP), and any development of the site requires Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR). Therefore, the 
proposed zoning reclassification and code amendment only change the site’s zoning designation and do not, in 
themselves, authorize any construction, demolition, or land disturbance that could result in physical 
environmental impacts.  
Section 3. Legislative findings. At a duly noticed public hearing on ________________, the City Council of the City 
of San Mateo reviewed and considered the associated staff report and attachments thereto, the Categorical 
Exemption, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and determines 
as follows:

--- page 14 ---
1. CONFORMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN. The City Council finds and determines that the proposed 
zoning code amendment and zoning reclassification from One Family Dwellings (R1-B) to One Family 
Dwellings with Qualified District Overlay 8 (R1-B/Q8) are in conformance with the Residential Very 
Low land use designation of the General Plan of the City of San Mateo. The amendment establishes 
development standards for an educational facility providing childcare services within a residential 
district, consistent with General Plan Land Use Policy 3.5 and Public Services Facilities Policy 6.5, which 
encourage childcare centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards. While 
educational facilities are currently permitted in the R1-B zoning district with a Special Use Permit, no 
specific development standards exist to address the unique characteristics of such uses within 
residential areas. The Qualified Overlay designations have previously been applied to private 
educational facilities to address site-specific operational needs. Extending the Q8 Overlay and 
amending the Zoning Code would implement the General Plan policies by establishing tailored 
development standards that facilitate the development of educational facilities in appropriate 
residential settings.   
2. INTENT OF ZONING CODE. The overlay district and rezoning conform to the purpose of Municipal Code 
Section 27.60.180 in that the rezoning provides standards for the use of land with unique site 
characteristics as a private educational facility.  
Section 4. Zoning Map. The Zoning Map of the City of San Mateo is hereby amended to indicate as follows:  the 
property generally known as APN: 039-040-080 as depicted in Exhibit A, attached hereto, shall be reclassified from 
the R1-B (One Family Dwellings ) Zoning District to the R1-B/Q8 (One Family Dwellings , Qualified Overlay District 
8) Zoning District and the Zoning Map shall be amended to reflect this reclassification. 
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined invalid 
or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or portions 
hereof shall remain in full force and effect. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this 
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one 
or more section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase be declared unconstitutional.  
Section 6. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter. 
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 15 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
ZONING MAP RECLASSIFICATION 
 
For PA-2025-012 2033 La Salle Drive, Zoning Reclassification 
 
 
Amend the Zoning Map for the 2033 La Salle Drive site, APN: 039-040-080, from R1-B One Family Dwellings to 
R1-B/Q8 One Family Dwellings, Qualified Overlay District 8, to allow for a private educational facility. The Project 
site is circled below (see arrow) with the associated amended Zoning Map color.

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
APPROVING THE SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR), SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP), AND SITE 
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA) FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EARLY CHILDHOOD 
EDUCATION CENTER AT 2033 LA SALLE DRIVE (PA-2018-069) 
 
WHEREAS, the Carey School (hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted Planning Application 
No. PA‐2025‐012 to the Planning Division for a Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Map Amendment, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning Application to rezone the property 
located at 2033 La Salle Drive from R1-B to R1-B/Q8, and to establish and construct an early childhood education 
center at the same location (collectively referred to as the “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Chapter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.050 requires final action from 
the City Council for projects which include reclassifications and which are subject to Planning Commission review 
under 27.06.040; and 
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, at which 
time the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and by a vote of ________  
recommended that the City Council approve the Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Map Amendment, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, Special Use Permit, and Site Development Planning Application, subject to the Findings for 
Approval and Conditions of Approval for Planning Application No. PA‐2025‐012. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES THAT:  
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, the proposed Project is 
exempt from further environmental review pursuant to Section 15303, Class 3 (New Construction or 
Conversion of Small Structures). Class 3 exemptions include the construction of small facilities or structures 
of less than 10,000 square feet, such as stores, offices, restaurants, or similar buildings in urbanized areas. 
The Project involves the construction of a single-story, approximately 5,908-square-foot building within an 
urbanized area on a site zoned R1-B, which allows educational facilities with a Special Use Permit (SUP). 
Additionally, the Project does not involve the use of hazardous substances beyond typical household cleaners. 
Therefore, the Project qualifies for the Class 3 exemption and is exempt from further environmental review 
under CEQA. 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS FOLLOWS: 
 
General Plan Conformance 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Land Use Element. 
 
a. Policy LU 3.5 Support Service Uses. Encourage businesses that provide a variety of services, such as 
restaurants, child care facilities, medical clinics, gyms, pharmacies, hardware stores, and grocery 
stores in locations that serve residential neighborhoods and commercial/office uses. Prioritize the 
development of these services in equity priority communities in the city. 
b. Action LU 3.19 Major Institutions/Special Facilities. Work with relevant agencies and organizations 
to support the long-term viability of major institutions and special facilities that provide important 
recreational, educational, or medical services, such as the San Mateo County Events Center, College 
of San Mateo, San Mateo County Hospital, Mills Health Center, and Peninsula Golf and Country Club.

--- page 17 ---
Require a Specific Plan and/or Master Plan to guide reuse or redevelopment of institutions and special 
facilities when appropriate. 
c. Policy LU 11.1 Economic Development. Prioritize the retention and expansion of existing businesses 
and attract new businesses that strengthen and diversify the City’s economic base. 
 
The proposed project is consistent with the above Land Use Element policies in that it supports an existing 
San Mateo institution, the Carey School, and maintains an essential community service by providing a 
childcare facility in a location that serves residential neighborhoods. While the site is not large enough to 
warrant a Master Plan or Specific Plan, the proposed Zoning Reclassification and Special Use Permit will 
establish tailored development standards, including appropriate conditions and limitations on operations, 
enrollment, and staffing levels to ensure compatibility with adjacent residential uses. Furthermore, 
approval of the project supports the City’s goal of retaining and strengthening existing businesses that 
provide essential neighborhood services. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Circulation Element. 
 
a. Policy C 6.3 Local Transportation Analysis. Require site-specific transportation impact analysis 
following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for development projects 
where there may be an adverse condition or effect on the roadway system. 
b. Policy C 6.4 Operations Analysis for Development Projects. Require new development to determine 
the need for new or modified circulation improvements, operations, or alignments where 
developments identify operational deficiencies that were not previously identified in a transportation 
impact fee study. Require development applicants to prepare an analysis to determine the need for 
modifications, such as signalization, turn restrictions, roundabouts, etc. Require applicants to fund 
identified off-site improvements if warranted, as determined by the legally appropriate 
transportation analysis, and as approved by City staff. 
c. Policy C 7.2 Shared Parking. Encourage new and existing developments, especially those in mixed-
use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing parking supply, minimize the 
amount of new parking construction, and encourage “park once” behavior in commercial areas. 
d. Policy C 7.4 Bicycle Parking. Require the provision of bicycle parking as part of new private 
developments. 
 
The proposed project is consistent with the above Circulation Element policies in that a local 
transportation and operational analysis was prepared, and appropriate operational measures have been 
incorporated including traffic monitoring to ensure safe and efficient site access and circulation. The 
project also utilizes an existing underused parking facility through a shared parking arrangement, thereby 
minimizing the need for new parking construction.  In addition, the project provides both short-term and 
long-term bicycle parking consistently with the requirements of the Zoning Code. 
 
3. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Community Design and Historic 
Resources Element. 
 
a. Policy CD 6.3 Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design features and elements 
into the design of new buildings, including locating and orienting buildings to access solar exposure, 
preserving mature vegetation to the extent feasible, and using green building materials 
b. Policy CD 8.3 Respect Existing Scale and Rhythm. New mixed-use and commercial development 
should have context sensitive design that incorporates architectural styles and elements that relate

--- page 18 ---
to the scale and design of surrounding buildings, including by providing breaks in the building face at 
spacings common to buildings in the area and by stepping back upper floors. 
 
The proposed project is consistent with the above Community Design Element policies by incorporating 
sustainable design features through the use of electric appliances and the preservation of mature 
vegetation to the extent feasible within the development area. The project also respects the scale and 
character of the surrounding neighborhood by proposing a one-story building that is compatible in height, 
form, and materials with adjacent residential properties. 
 
4. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Public Services and Facilities Element. 
 
a. Policy PSF 6.2 Child Care Needs. Support the provision of child-care programs and facilities to meet 
the needs of children of all abilities, incomes, and backgrounds through 2040. 
b. Policy PSF 6.3 Provision of Child Care. Encourage public and private agencies and employers to 
provide child-care services and facilities. 
c. Policy PSF 6.5 Child Care Centers in Residential and Employment Areas. Encourage childcare centers 
in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards and at employment centers. 
 
The proposed project is consistent with the above Public Services and Facilities Element policies in that it 
provides an essential childcare service within the city, helping to meet the community’s demand. The 
facility is located within a residential neighborhood, consistent with Policy PSF 6.5, and will operate under 
the Qualified (Q) Overlay and Special Use Permit, which establish limitations on enrollment, staffing, and 
operations to ensure compatibility with the surrounding residential context. The project also supports 
Policies PSF 6.2 and PSF 6.3 by facilitating the provision of childcare services through a private operator 
that meets City standards and contributes to the overall availability of childcare within the community. 
 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
1. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:  
 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood;  
i. 
The proposed one-story building is designed to be compatible with the architectural character of 
both the surrounding neighborhood and the adjacent school campus. The neighborhood features 
a variety of architectural styles characterized by sloped rooflines and exterior finishes such as 
stucco. The project incorporates similar design elements, including a sloped roof and stucco 
exterior, ensuring visual consistency and a cohesive transition between the school campus and 
nearby residences; and 
ii. 
The design of the one-story building complies with the maximum building heights of 24 feet to 
the plate line and 32 feet to the roof peak, and provides deep setbacks to the property lines 
reducing potential visual impacts; and  
iii. 
Parking spaces located on the front of the property will be screened with landscaping and 
proposed trees; and 
iv. 
The proposed development maintains appropriate setbacks from the creek to avoid any impacts; 
and 
v. 
The play area is situated on the south side of the building, adjacent to the existing Carey School 
campus, to minimize potential noise impacts on the single-family residences to the north; and 
vi. 
The buildings utilize high quality materials and incorporates an abundance of landscape 
throughout the project to enhance the site.

--- page 19 ---
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City;  
Upon approval the project is consistent with the City’s General Plan and consists of a previously 
approved educational facilities within residential districts;  
i. 
The project has analyzed traffic, circulation, and parking to minimize impacts to the 
neighborhood; and   
ii. 
Adequate on-street parking is available along the parcel frontage to accommodate loading facility 
without impeding use of the sidewalk or local traffic circulation; and 
iii. 
The design of the buildings acknowledges and respects the existing single-family neighborhood to 
the north, south, and west in their mass and bulk to reduce visual impacts; and 
iv. 
The project furthers the use of a private educational facility and would not result in any significant 
impacts regarding public health, safety, or welfare as conditioned; and  
v. 
The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and the City’s 
building security code.  
 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:  
i. 
The Proposed project is designed in a manner that is sensitive and compatible with the 
surrounding neighborhood. 
ii. 
The project furthers the use of a private educational facility and would not result in any significant 
impacts regarding public health, safety, or welfare as conditioned; and  
iii. 
The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and the City’s 
building security code.  
 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City 
Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, 
building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site.  
 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, and 
security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be required to conform to the 
City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval.  
 
2. The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application to allow a private educational facility 
at 2033 La Salle Drive and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
 
a. Power to grant a special use permit shall be limited to those uses designated as "special use" 
within the districts established under SMMC Section 27.74. 
The proposed early childhood education center is considered as a private educational facility 
which is permitted by a Special Use Permit (SUP) in R1-B zoning district.  The proposed use is 
similar to other educational facilities such as the existing Carey School, St. Matthew’s Catholic 
Parish and School, and Junipero Serra High School which were previously permitted within single 
family residential districts.  
 
b. The proposed use will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the 
community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by excessive 
noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes, or industrial waste. 
The proposed early childhood education center use will not adversely affect the general health, 
safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent 
property given that the use and operations of the site are required to be in compliance with all 
applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and the Municipal Code.  Furthermore, the proposed use

--- page 20 ---
will not impact the local traffic system as assessed in a site-specific parking and traffic impact 
evaluation.   The Project will also be subject to conditions of approval at all times, including 
restrictions on construction hours and operational limits on enrollment and staffing to ensure 
compatibility with the adjacent residential uses. 
 
3. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) for the removal of major 
vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
 
a. The project will result in the removal of ten (10) heritage trees which will be replaced with 29 new 
trees as part of the proposed landscape plan. The removal of these trees is necessary to 
accommodate the development of the proposed project. All trees will be removed and replaced 
with appropriate landscaping to both enhance the site, screen the parking spaces, and create 
necessary buffers between surrounding properties. 
 
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of approval 
requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive on‐
site landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or through the payment of a fee to the City’s 
tree planting fund.

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2025-012, 2033 LA SALLE DR., SUP + SPAR 
 
2033 LA SALLE DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1706 
 PARCEL # 039040080 
 AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON 
 
These conditions of approval apply to the Early Childhood Education Center project referenced above 
(also referenced as “school”). The conditions of approval are grouped under specific headings that 
relate to the timing of required compliance. Additional language within a condition may further define 
the timing of required compliance. Types of Building permits include Demolition and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, or
prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall 
be reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall 
pay all outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
VECTOR CONTROL PLAN– The applicant shall enter into a contract with a pest 
control specialist and develop a vector control plan to be submitted for review 
and approval by the Community Development Director and the San Mateo 
County Mosquito and Vector Control District. The plan shall describe measures 
which shall be taken by the applicant to prevent rodent and pest infestation to 
adjacent sites, specify pest control measures, cover all phases of demolition, 
landscaping removal, and construction plus for a minimum period of six months 
after the completion of construction. The plan shall also specify that 
modifications will be developed and implemented should additional pest control 
measures be required during construction or demolition activity, subject to 
approval by the Community Development Department Director or his/her 
designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
CREEK PROTECTION PLAN – Prior to issuance of any permits, the applicant shall 
submit a Creek Protection Plan for review and approval by the Community 
Development and Public Works Department. The plan shall identify measures to 
protect the adjacent creek and riparian area from any impacts during 
construction activities. At a minimum, the plan shall include:

--- page 22 ---
1. Installation of silt fencing, fiber rolls, or other erosion control measures 
along the creek bank prior to the start of grading or construction; 
2. Regular monitoring and maintenance of erosion control measures 
throughout the duration of construction. 
All protective measures shall remain in place and functional until the City has 
approved final stabilization of the site. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
5 
APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit 
plans shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building 
Standards Codes and local amendments as adopted by the Building Division at 
the time of filing the building permit application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District. (BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a 
stamped, signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design 
recommendations and integrate recommendations into the plans as-
appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. The 
applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the Geotechnical 
engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform to 
the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
 
8 
LOADING ZONE IN THE PUBLIC ROW – The applicant shall install a loading zone 
as shown on the approved plans. The applicant shall coordinate with Public 
Works for curb marking and appropriate signage for the proposed street loading 
zone. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall 
obtain an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and 
provide a one (1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way 
or easements prior to any work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify 
the vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall 
show existing topo and features at least 20’ beyond the project boundary.  Plan 
shall show existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow 
lines, slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – The applicant is hereby informed that 
permits may be required by one (1) or more of the following: Corps of Engineers,

--- page 23 ---
Bay Conservation and Development Commission, Fish and Wildlife, and/or the 
State Lands Commission. If project is within jurisdiction of any of these agencies, 
verification of permit or waiver of permit shall be given to the Public Works 
Department prior to issuance of any required City permits. If the City is required 
to be a party to the permit application and a fee is required, the applicant shall 
reimburse the City for its cost. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs 
Screening 
Assessment 
Form 
located 
here: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall 
be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the 
required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work associated with 
the stormwater pollution prevention program in accordance with San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The fee amount will be based upon the City 
Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is made. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, 
including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control 
plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements.  
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. 
The plan, at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, 
duration, construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
15 
LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES - Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the 
applicant shall pay in-lieu fees for tree removals as evaluated in the Tree 
Evaluation Schedule and Tree Planting form required during the building permit 
application 
review.  
 As indicated in Code 27.71.150, existing trees to be removed shall be replaced 
with new trees to equal the total removed Landscape Unit (LU) value. Otherwise, 
an LU in lieu fee shall be paid at the rate established in the annual 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (CDD Arborist) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection 
measures are properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection 
verification letter prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that

--- page 24 ---
includes photographs showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also 
include a schedule of future inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification 
letter is subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement 
with a licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of 
the project’s Plant Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three 
(3) growing season months (March through October) for all proposed 
landscaped areas.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – 
All screening for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related 
operational/utility devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in 
substantial conformance with the approved planning application. All above 
ground utilities and equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, 
and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT– All rooftop mechanical 
equipment shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial 
conformance with the approved planning application. All equipment shall be 
painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall with materials 
compatible with the building design subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application 
plans are for information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in 
accordance with Title 25 of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES – All above-grade trash and recycling 
enclosures shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial 
conformance with the approved planning application and be screened to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
22 
CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen 
Checklist noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in 
accordance with the California Green Building Standards Code and City of San 
Mateo Reach Codes subject to the review and approval by the Building Official, 
or his/her designee. Current City of San Mateo CALGreen checklists are located

--- page 25 ---
on Building Division webpage or will be provided by Community Development 
Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a 
completed Water Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening 
form indicates the project is subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping 
Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, additional 
documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also be included with the 
site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms are 
located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to 
the review and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  
(BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
24 
CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans 
that all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building 
permit submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving 
fire systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire 
alarms) in conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire 
Department. The plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal 
or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
26 
DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping 
with the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site 
shall be implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director 
of Public Works or designee or designee.  Where necessary, sidewalk drains per 
City Standard Drawing 3 1 120 shall be provided to direct the water under the 
sidewalk and through the curb.  No increase to the peak discharge shall be 
permitted downstream.  In addition, discharge shall conform to any non point 
source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board.  Drainage 
improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties.  All drainage 
capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose 
signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project civil plans 
submitted as part of the building permit for the superstructure.  The applicant 
shall install all bioretention areas in compliance with their stormwater 
management plan.   Projects that include permanent structural controls for 
stormwater treatment, shall comply with requirements of Section C.3 of the 
Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County (MRP).  The O&M 
(operation and maintenance) procedures for such control features shall be

--- page 26 ---
submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify the owner’s 
responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance.  
Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the County of San 
Mateo Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all 
project fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall 
provide an adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, 
composting collection containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid 
waste collection service. The containers shall be placed at the service location 
allowing enough room for the truck to safely approach the containers. The 
collection containers shall be brought to the service area and returned to the 
storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not to be in public 
view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection 
service provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The 
building permit plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling 
areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
MAINTENANCE ACCESS AGREEMENT – Applicant shall enter into a maintenance 
agreement for city maintenance staff to access the storm trash rack located at 
the east end of the private creek prior to issuance of the building permit. The 
applicant shall have the agreement recorded against the owner’s property that 
indemnifies and holds harmless the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees and agents.  The agreement shall include language in which the 
applicant agrees to allow city maintenance staff safe access at the locations 
specified in substantial conformance to the planning application. The agreement 
shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney’s Office and shall be recorded 
against the owner’s property prior to the issuance of any City encroachment 
permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
PARKING LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include 
all required off street parking lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps 
profile, and parking dimensions in conformance with City parking standards. 
Drainage should be directed to adjacent landscaping wherever possible. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all 
public improvements in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public 
improvements shall be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated 
for removal and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because

--- page 27 ---
of developer's operations.  Developer shall request a walk-through with the 
Public Works Construction Inspector before the start of construction to verify 
existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right of way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the 
superstructure building permit submittal and substantially conform to the 
approved planning application.  Any changes to the improvements shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their sole discretion.  All 
design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted.  Project specifications shall 
be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by 
Public Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right 
of way: 
 
(A) SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace the sidewalk, 
curb and gutter along the project frontage in substantial conformance with the 
planning application.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(B) DRIVEWAYS – The applicant shall remove the existing two curb cuts and 
install two driveways per City Standard in substantial conformance with the 
planning application and per City Standard. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(C) SIGNAGE AND STRIPING – The applicant shall coordinate with Public Works 
the installation of curb marking and street signs to specify the use of loading 
zone and trashing staging area. This coordination shall be done prior to building 
permit issuance and must be reflected on the building permit plans. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
(D) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install City Standard sewer lateral 
connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street right 
of way.  The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standards.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(E) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.39, the applicant shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) 
improvements including a bioretention area located along La Salle Dr.   The 
improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and specifications 
provided by San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or City 
of San Mateo GI Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public

--- page 28 ---
Works or designee or designee. The bioretention area shall be designed to 
overflow back into the gutter along La Salle Dr unless approved otherwise. 
Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, 
whose signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets, and shall 
be submitted to the City for review and approval with the project superstructure 
plans. GI improvements shall be maintained by the adjacent property owner and 
included in the stormwater treatment O&M (operation and maintenance) 
agreement that is recorded with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee 
proportional to the project's share of transportation improvements needed to 
serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo, as established by 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. The fee shall be collected by the 
Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure 
building permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee schedule 
at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash 
capture devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm 
drain system or outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works 
or designee or designee. Trash capture devices are required on site consistent 
with the State Water Resources Control Board definition of Full Capture System. 
All on-site trash capture devices shall be cleaned routinely and maintained by 
the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities Maintenance Agreement. 
The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash capture 
devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show that the installation of landscaping and permanent 
structures located within the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 
45’ triangular area of visibility at any project corner meets the requirements of 
a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes 
all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans 
for the superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to 
identify different type of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and 
private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground 
electrical, gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and 
cables including the size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building 
utility service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of junction 
structures.

--- page 29 ---
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have 
traffic rated boxes and lids. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the 
project frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an 
encroachment permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. 
Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as 
established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all 
new development to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and 
future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded 
connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable wastewater capacity 
charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater strength 
loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the most 
current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company 
shall be supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, 
ISSUANCE OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF 
OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 
LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape 
verification letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the 
project landscape architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape 
improvements (including on-site trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation 
systems) have been installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans. 
This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 
PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and 
landscaping, the applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning 
Final inspection for verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of 
approval. The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each 
inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA)

--- page 30 ---
40 
SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared 
the soil investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final 
report stating the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site 
work substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and 
investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. 
(BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – (This condition applies when there 
is 2,500 sq. ft. or more landscaping work performed to the project site) In 
accordance with the City’s Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in 
Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a licensed landscape architect, a licensed 
landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation designer shall complete the 
“Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation in 
Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of completion 
shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and 
approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
42 
RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record 
drawings and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the 
Department of Public Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the 
record drawings as constructed in the field. The applicant shall also provide the 
City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in PDF and the AutoCAD Version 
being used by the City at the time of completion of the work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 
RESTORATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – Any damage to public 
improvements in the right-of-way shall be restored in conformance to current 
city standard details and is subject to the review and approval of the Director of 
Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The 
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of 
Public Works or designee as specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 
of the Stormwater Management and Discharge Control ordinance and the San 
Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Program Technical 
Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous operation and 
maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment facilities 
including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure 
elements constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the 
County Recorder’s Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first 
occupancy of the building. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
45 
FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site 
inspection and submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At 
minimum, the final arborist report shall confirm that the approved tree

--- page 31 ---
protection measures were implemented and shall assess the condition of 
Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall be subject to 
replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, 
or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
46 
FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and 
prior to the installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall 
request the Project Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items 
including, but not limited to, window locations, window sizes, and massing. The 
applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a 
minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
47 
CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the 
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. 
and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays 
and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction that takes place inside a 
completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise 
level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines. The applicant shall 
conform to the construction work hours to control traffic congestion, noise, and 
dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
48 
ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on 
each building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire 
access road. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
49 
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management 
and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed 
information can be located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-
parking plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the 
neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will 
be present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate 
where sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for

--- page 32 ---
off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with 
at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in 
suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 
MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-
axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, 
the applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of 
Public Works or designee. The project sponsor shall require contractors to 
prohibit trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” on residential 
streets. The haul route for this project shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use 
this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, and 
approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities 
including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of 
operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the 
responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the 
public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be 
allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent 
tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method of cleaning tires and 
trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public 
right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm 
drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it is a wet-vacuum 
sweeper. All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with 
applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be 
cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 
PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, 
grading and construction: 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit 
shall be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, 
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way 
after 5:00 p.m. In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public 
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior 
approvals have been granted by Public Works. Earth haul and materials delivery 
to and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, 
will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Signs 
outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations on site. The 
signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. The 
sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works 
Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or

--- page 33 ---
modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public 
Works or designee finds that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise 
associated with the project as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate 
design or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need 
would be determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of 
the Director of Public Works or designee. 
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril 
to public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of 
the remaining requirements outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required 
by the City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and 
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours 
of construction activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be 
provided three days prior to the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any 
interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time 
if the contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of 
exemption or if it is determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the 
occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are impaired 
because of the location and nature of the construction. The waiver application 
shall be submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten (10) working 
days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water 
trucks or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading 
operations. Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind 
conditions that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause

--- page 34 ---
excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down of dirt and debris into storm 
drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to 
and from the site. (F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit 
any applicable pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the 
Director of Public Works or designee, for any lane or sidewalk closures. The 
detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the State of 
California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2012, and 
standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
53 
PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to 
the Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection 
documenting the condition of trees, protection measures changes or 
adjustments, and/or any damages to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 
TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall 
remain in place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. 
The applicant or contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when 
construction operations are to be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of 
protected trees. (e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of 
Tree Protection Measures requires approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD 
ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises. 
 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
55 
APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All building 
permit plans, details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform 
with the approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, 
materials, project description, and other items submitted as part of the 
approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, shall determine whether the proposed modifications substantially 
conform with the approved planning application, or whether a planning 
application modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed 
modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 35 ---
56 
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS - The school must comply with all recommendations and 
findings of the Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum prepared by the 
Kimley Horn dated November 11, 2025. 
 
 
The preschool program shall maintain a minimum 50% carpool participation rate 
(on a 3-year average) with the elementary school located at 1 Carey Lane for the 
duration of its operation. Enrollment and carpool data shall be submitted to the 
City at the start of each school year to demonstrate compliance with this 
requirement. If the 50% carpool participation rate cannot be maintained, the 
operator shall implement additional measures, such as reducing student 
enrollment, to ensure that the project does not result in traffic impacts. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57 
CIRCULATION MEASURES – The Ealy Childhood Center, in coordination with the 
Carey School, shall comply with the following circulation measures for daily 
student pick-up and drop-off: 
 
a) Monitors - During school drop-off and pick-up hours, a minimum of five school 
staff persons shall be designated for the exclusive purposes of facilitating 
circulation at a minimum of the following three locations: 
I. 
One staff at 20th Avenue and La Salle Intersection, 
II. 
Two staff at cul-de-sac, 
III. 
One staff at 2033 La Salle Drive Parking, and 
IV. 
One staff at Alameda  
 
b) Parking is not allowed at La Salle cul-de-sac pick-up/drop-off areas during peak 
hours.   
 
c) Loading Zones on Alameda - The designated “loading only” areas on Alameda 
de las Pulgas shall be honored and enforced. 
 
d) Loading and unloading students shall be per the approved Parking and Traffic 
Plan. 
 
e) Driveway signage on La Salle Drive – Temporary, professional grade and 
quality, removable (A-frame type) signage for the sole purpose of restricting 
usage of residential driveways on La Salle Drive by Ealy Childhood Education 
Center or Carey School  shall be placed twice a day, at each driveway apron along 
La Salle Drive, just prior to and throughout drop-off and pick-up hours. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 
FACULTY/STAFF EMPLOYED - The maximum number of faculty/staff employed 
by the Early Childhood Education Center shall not exceed 16 persons. 
(PLANNING)

--- page 36 ---
59 
HOURS OF OPERATION – The daily hours of operation for the school property 
shall be Monday through Friday 7:45am to 6:00pm. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 
ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be 
maintained free of litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently 
maintained in a healthy growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced 
with equivalent plant materials to ensure continued conformance with approved 
plans. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
61 
PARKING AND TRAFFIC PLAN BY EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION CENTER – 
Annually the school shall ensure that each family receives an updated copy of 
the school’s Parking and Traffic Plan including evening events Parking Protocol. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 
PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-
Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the 
conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the property owner to the 
penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code as well as any other available legal remedies. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 
REVOCATION – In the event of any violation of these conditions of approval, the 
City of San Mateo reserves the right to revoke the special use permit in 
accordance with Chapter 27.10 of the Zoning Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 
Staff Parking Requirement - Through a parking agreement or other means, the 
school must provide 15 off-site parking spaces for school faculty/staff on 
weekdays, in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.64.060. 
Should the number of offsite parking spaces fall below 15, then the number of 
full-time equivalent school employees must be reduced proportionately to bring 
the use into conformance with the City's applicable parking ratio set forth in San 
Mateo Municipal Code chapter 27.64. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 
STUDENT ENROLLMENT - The Early Childhood Education Center shall be limited 
to a maximum student enrollment of 75 students. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66 
WRITTEN ANNUAL COMPLIANCE LETTER - The school, in coordination with the 
Carey School, shall submit a written letter to the Zoning Administrator of the 
City's Planning Division on an annual basis at the start of each school year that 
includes a written assessment of compliance with the conditions of approval. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 
Pursuant to San Mateo Code Section 27.08.080, the applicant may request 
modifications to the approved Planning Application. Minor modifications are 
subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator. (PLANNING)

--- page 37 ---
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
68 
PHYSICAL SECURITY PLAN – The applicant shall submit a Physical Security Plan 
for the site in compliance with the City’s Security Ordinance that shall address 
lighting, video surveillance, security and safety management practices and 
procedures, and CPTED (Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design) 
principles. The Physical Security Plan shall be approved by the Chief of Police or 
his/her designee prior to the issuance of the first building superstructure permit 
for the project. The Physical Security Plan shall be subject to an annual review 
with the Police Department at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69 
SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the 
Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall 
comply with the requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a 
minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to exceed 
4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright 
white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color 
rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting 
standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, 
passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting 
system shall be so designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to 
shield the light source from view from off site.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for 
the life of the project a video surveillance system subject to the following 
requirements: 
 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 
days.  The captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police 
personnel through some form of facility management during regular business 
hours.  The applicant shall provide proof of registration of the video surveillance 
camera system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security 
Team 
web 
form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the 
property accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages 
and entrances and exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside 
mixed-use parking garages, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended 
to require Applicant to install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to 
view these areas may be installed on the building facing out. 
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that 
shall be capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project 
completion.  Cameras viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle

--- page 38 ---
passage onto the sites and/or garages shall additionally be capable of capturing 
the front and rear of all entering and exiting vehicles that use the sites and/or 
garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model of vehicles 
accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of vehicles, and 
clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
 
71 
POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance 
with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and 
Regulations, San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo 
Countywide Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant 
shall: 
 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI 
features in the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep 
parking lots immediately prior to and once during the storm season. 
 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but 
not limited to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, 
emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and 
facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no longer 
able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated. The fee shall be based 
upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by the City Council, in effect 
at the time. 
 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping 
– Drains to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and 
to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering 
information is available from the Department of Public Works. 
 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, 
and similar chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and 
grease planned for storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all 
times. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 
TRAFFIC MONITORING STUDY - The Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum 
provided by Kimley Horn on November 11, 2025, states that The Early Childhood 
Education Center will reduce their Average Daily Trips by 50% through 
carpooling. The preschool program shall maintain a minimum 50% carpool 
participation rate (on a 3-year average) with the elementary school located at 1 
Carey Lane for the duration of its operation. The applicant shall provide an 
annual update with enrollment data to verify that the carpool reduction rate still 
applies. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
City Attorney (PA)

--- page 39 ---
73 
INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the 
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
from and against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this 
planning application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees 
that might result from third party challenge.  If applicant is required to defend 
the City, the City shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the 
City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 40 ---
ATTACHMENT 2- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS 
PA-2025-012 
Planning   
Application: 
2033 La Salle Drive  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Parcel Number(s): 
039-040-080 
Address(es): 
 
 
 
 
 
1,000 feet

--- page 41 ---
ATTACHMENT 2- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS 
PA-2025-012 
Planning   
Application: 
2033 La Salle Drive  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Parcel Number(s): 
039-040-080 
Address(es): 
 
 
 
Project

--- page 42 ---
The Carey School 
Early Childhood Center 
Project Description  
 
2033 La Salle Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403 
APN: 039-040-080 
 
Updated: July 22, 2025 
 
The Carey School is excited to submit this project description and associated plans with our 
development application to construct a new early childhood center in San Mateo, CA (“City”).  
The Carey School (“TCS”) is a Preschool through 5th grade private school located in San 
Mateo.  The K-5 school is located off of La Salle Drive on the TCS campus, while the Preschool 
is currently located in a leased building located at 3900 Alameda de Las Pulgas at the 
Transfiguration Church. Over the last several years, TCS has been providing quality child care 
in the City and  “…recognizes the importance of quality child care and the role child care and 
preschool programs play in the development of our families’ children while also supporting the 
economic 
well-being 
of 
our 
community.” 
(City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Website, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4670/Child-Care-Facilities-Fund). As a result of this commitment 
for quality care,  TCS has entered into an option to purchase the property adjacent to the TCS 
campus with the intention of redeveloping the site into a new early childhood center that will 
expand the capacity of the preschool program to accommodate up to 75 children (an increase of 
35 students from the current 40) immediately adjacent to the existing campus.   
 
In the recently adopted 2040 General Plan, the City reaffirmed its commitment to prioritizing 
innovative approaches to increase the supply of child care spaces within the City.  TCS’ Early 
Childhood Center aspires to meet the goals and policies outlined in the General Plan and TCS 
looks forward to partnering with the City to achieve this vision (2040 General Plan, Chapter 7 
Public Services and Facilities Element, Pages 169-172).  
 
GOAL PSF-6 Foster the healthy development and education of children of all abilities, 
incomes, and backgrounds.  
 
●​ Policy PSF 6.2 Child Care Needs. Support the provision of child-care programs and 
facilities to meet the needs of children of all abilities, incomes, and backgrounds through 
2040.  
 
●​ Policy PSF 6.3 Provision of Child Care. Encourage public and private agencies and 
employers to provide child-care services and facilities.  
 
●​ Policy PSF 6.5 Child Care Centers in Residential and Employment Areas. Encourage 
child care centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards and at 
employment centers.

--- page 43 ---
Site and Project Description 
 
TCS is seeking to obtain approvals to construct a new Early Childhood Center. TCS is located 
at 1 Carey School Lane in San Mateo (“Project”).  On August 9, 2024, TCS entered into an 
option agreement with the owners of 2033 La Salle Drive, San Mateo, CA (“Project Site”) to the 
North of the existing school in order to purchase the existing single family home and convert it 
into a new early childhood (preschool) center. This option agreement expires on December 31, 
2025.  Even though the Project would be owned and operated by TCS, it is requesting approval 
as a stand alone project that will not affect the current operations or its current K-5 enrollment.  
The Project Site is currently occupied by a 2,427-square-foot, one-story, single-family residence 
with an approximately 640 square foot accessory dwelling unit and 891 square feet of multiple 
accessory structures, on a 26,380-square-foot parcel.  
There are residential neighbors 
immediately to the north, residential neighbors across La Salle Drive to the west, Serra High 
School to the east, and the main Carey School campus to the south, directly across an 
unnamed creek. 
The Project would demolish the existing residence and accessory structures to replace them 
with an Early Childhood Center, consisting of an 1-story, approximately 5,908-square-foot 
building, and an approximately 126-square-foot trash enclosure, consistent with the proposed 
Q8 overlay.  The new building, designed for up to 75 preschool-aged children, ages 2-5 years 
old, will have six classrooms and a total of 16 teachers.  The building will also include ancillary 
and support spaces, including a reception area, office, and a teacher workroom.  An outdoor 
play area, in compliance with State Daycare Licensing requirements and a teaching garden will 
be included.  
Approximately 10 trees will be removed to redevelop the site.  These will be replaced with 29 
new trees, including seventeen 24-inch box trees and twelve 36-inch box trees.  The larger 
trees will be planted along the perimeter of the site, providing a green buffer and a filtered view 
to the Project Site.  The proposed landscape plan will fully comply with C3 stormwater 
management requirements, and the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO) 
requirements, including drought-tolerant materials and plants appropriate for the Project’s 
climate zone. 
Site improvements will also include new 7-foot-height perimeter fencing (with the top 1-foot 
portion being 50 percent open) and a new, at-grade, onsite parking lot with one-way access and 
an integrated pick-up/drop-off passenger loading zone to allow for streamlined access to the site 
and a safer pick-up/drop-off process.  
The Project complies with R1-B setbacks including 15-foot front-, side-, and rear-yard setbacks; 
a 20-foot watercourse setback measured from the top of creek bank; and the maximum 
allowable floor area for a parcel of this size in the Q8 overlay zone. 
The design approach of the Project is to provide a design that best supports the school’s unique 
early childhood programmatic needs, while also respecting the context of the neighborhood.

--- page 44 ---
The U-shaped building allows for the three sides of the building to provide a protected area for 
the play yard to the south, with the building rotated so that it provides visual and acoustic 
separation of the play yard from the residential neighbors to the north and west.  The low-slung 
massing of the 1-story building, with gently sloping roofs that slope away from the street and 
neighbors, minimizes the scale of the building at the street and the property lines shared with 
residential neighbors.  The stucco building, which is 11’-6” tall at its lowest point near neighbors, 
and 15’-0” tall at its highest point at the center of the parcel, is consistent with the scale and 
materiality of its residential neighbors. 
 
An unnamed creek exists to the south of the Project Site. TCS engaged HT Harvey and 
Associates, qualified biologists, to study the site, conduct a site visit, document an appropriate 
riparian setback and advise the project team to ensure that the Project is sufficiently setback 
and designed to avoid the creek. A copy of their memo is included as Attachment 1.  This is 
consistent with the 2040 General Plan, GOAL COS-3 which states ”Protect and improve San 
Mateo’s creeks as valuable habitat and components of human and environmental health.” (2040 
General Plan, Chapter 6, Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Element, Page 138). 
 
TCS agrees to provide maintenance access to the track rack that will allow the City’s annual 
maintenance.  TCS does not believe that a dedicated public utility easement is warranted for 
this minimal access and proposes a maintenance agreement be executed by the parties prior to 
issuance of the Building Permits that will delineate where access is required. 
 
Traffic and Parking 
 
TCS engaged Kimley Horn to prepare a traffic memo including a parking assessment.   The 
traffic and parking memo also includes an analysis of the ECC operations and staggered drop 
off pick up schedule to minimize any neighborhood concerns related to traffic.  At the DRB 
meeting on July 1, 2025, Kimley Horn, on behalf of TCS, discussed the proposed approach and 
findings of the traffic and parking study. The Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum for 
2033 La Salle Drive dated July 22, 2025  including all findings is included as Attachment 19.  
The Parking License Lease Agreements with 1900-2000 Alameda are attached as Attachments 
20 and 21.  
 
Neighborhood Meeting 
 
On January 9, 2025, TCS hosted a neighborhood meeting by Zoom following the City’s Planning 
Application Guide requirements. A neighborhood meeting notice was mailed to residents within 
1000 feet of the Project Site on December 6, 2024.  
 
Meeting Recording: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Tn5pZRsB2MfY54Y9OWm6n8sXUUXQDcMc/view?usp=sharing   
 
Please see Attachment 2 to access the Meeting Notes, Attachment 3 to access the attendees 
and contact information, and Attachment 4 to review the follow up letters sent to the meeting

--- page 45 ---
attendees. Additionally, Attachment 16 includes an updated list of contact information for the 
neighborhood meeting participants requested by the City. 
 
Entitlements 
 
The project site is located in a Residential Low land use category of the General Plan. The site 
is currently zoned R1-B and “public and private educational facilities” are a compatible use in 
the R1-B zoning designation with a Special Use Permit (SUP) (Section 27.18.030 Special Uses 
of the San Mateo Zoning Code).  
 
The Project is a private early childhood center that provides educational and developmental 
services to preschool age children to prepare them to enter elementary school.  The foundation 
of the program includes a robust educational curriculum.  TCS is the operator of the Center, and 
is a private school, not under any public administration (Section 27.04.400, Private School). See 
Attachment 5 for more information on TCS previously circulated. A sample curriculum and daily 
school schedule was previously included as Attachment 6.  
 
The following approvals are being requested to entitle and construct the proposed Early 
Childhood Center: 
 
●​ Reclassification to add the Q8 Overlay to allow for the development pursuant to 
standards and regulations reflecting the unique characteristics of the site, SMMC Section 
27.08.020; 27.60.100, 180  
●​ Special Use Permit for the substantial removal of the existing single family residence- 
SMMC Section 27.18.035(b) 
●​ Special Use Permit for the proposed Early Childhood Center “private educational facility” 
on the project site 
●​ Site Plan Architectural Review (SPAR) for the design of the new building on the project 
site. 
●​ Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for grading SMMC Section 23.40.040 
 
We look forward to continuing to work with the City of San Mateo to bring additional child care 
services to the City, including spots for subsidized care.  If you have any questions or concerns, 
please don’t hesitate to contact Neely Norris at (650) 345-2044 / nnorris@careyschool.org or 
Kohar Kojayan at (925) 785-6053 / kohar@kohplanning.com.  
 
Attachments 
 
Previously Transmitted  
Attachment 1 - HT Harvey Memo (provided to City February 14, 2025) 
Attachment 2 - Neighborhood Meeting Notes (provided to City February 14, 2025) 
Attachment 3 - Neighborhood Meeting Attendees  (provided to City February 14, 2025) 
Attachment 4 - Neighbor Follow Up Letters  (provided to City February 14, 2025) 
Attachment 5 - The Carey School Brochure (provided to City February 14, 2025)

--- page 46 ---
Attachment 6 - ECC Curriculum and Daily Schedule  (provided to City February 14, 2025) 
Attachment 7 - Incompleteness Letter Response Matrix dated May 12, 2025 
Attachment 8 - Redline Section 27.60/180 (h) - Q8 Overlay Zoning Text Modifications 
Attachment 9 - Housing Crisis Act Memo dated April 22, 2025 
Attachment 10 - Sewer Analysis dated May 12, 2025 
Attachment 11 - Storm Water Checklist dated May 12, 2025 
Attachment 12 - Geotechnical Report dated February 11, 2025 
Attachment 13 - CEQA Exemption Memo dated May 12, 2025 
Attachment 14 - Recology Approval Letter dated May 13, 2025 
 
Currently Transmitted 
Attachment 15 - 2nd Incompleteness Letter Response Matrix dated July 22, 2025 
Attachment 16 - Updated Neighborhood Meeting Attendees Contact Information 
Attachment 17 - CEQA Exemption Memo dated July 14, 2025 (updated from previous submittal 
- no city response received on previously transmitted version) 
Attachment 18 - Housing Crisis Act Memo revised July 17, 2025 
Attachment 19 - Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum for 2033 La Salle Drive prepared 
by Kimley Horn dated July 22, 2025 
Attachment 20 - Parking License Agreement dated July 25, 2018 
Attachment 21 - Amended Parking License Agreement dated February 6, 2025

--- page 47 ---
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:49:53 PM
G0.00
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
COVER SHEET,
SHEET INDEX
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
PROJECT RENDERING
EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER FOR THE CAREY SCHOOL
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
SHEET LIST
SPAR/SUP PLANNING APPLICATION 02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER 05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER - REVISION 2 07.16.2025
GENERAL
G0.00
COVER SHEET, SHEET INDEX
X
X
X
G0.01
PROJECT INFORMATION
X
X
X
ARCHITECTURAL
A0.00
EXISTING SITE PLAN
X
X
X
A0.01
EXISTING RESIDENCE PHOTOGRAPHS
X
X
X
A0.02
EXISTING CONTEXT PHOTOGRAPHS
X
X
X
A0.10
SITE DEMOLITION PLAN
X
X
X
A1.00
SITE AND ROOF PLAN
X
X
X
A1.01
PROJECT CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS
X
X
X
A1.02
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
X
X
X
A2.10
FLOOR PLAN
X
X
X
A3.00
EXTERIOR BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
A3.10
BUILDING SECTIONS
X
X
X
A6.10
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
X
X
X
A11.00
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN
X
X
X
A11.01
EGRESS PLAN, OCCUPANCY LOAD CALCULATIONS
X
X
X
A11.02
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS AND FLOOR PLANS
X
X
X
SITE SURVEY
SU1
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
X
X
X
LANDSCAPE
L0.00
GENERAL NOTES AND ABBREVIATIONS
X
X
X
L0.02
TREE REPORT
X
X
L0.03
TREE REPORT
X
X
L0.10A
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN (EXISTING)
X
X
X
L0.10B
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN (PROPOSED)
X
X
L0.11
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN
X
X
X
L0.12
TREE PROTECTION DETAILS
X
X
L1.00
MATERIAL PLANS
X
X
X
L1.01
MATERIAL NOTES AND SCHEDULE
X
X
L1.10
MATERIAL IMAGES
X
X
X
L3.00
IRRIGATION PLAN
X
X
X
L4.00
PLANTING PLAN
X
X
X
L4.01
PLANTING NOTES AND SCHEDULE
X
X
L4.10
PLANTING IMAGES
X
X
X
L4.11
WELO FORMS
X
X
L5.00
SECTIONS AND ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
L5.10
SECTIONS AND ELEVATIONS  CONT'D
X
X
X
L5.20
ENTITLEMENT DIAGRAMS
X
X
CIVIL
C1.0
PRELIMINARY DEMOLITION PLAN
X
X
C2.0
PRELIMINARY HORIZONTAL CONTROL PLAN
X
X
C3.0
PRELIMINARY SITE GRADING PLAN
X
X
X
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
X
X
X
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
X
X
X
C6.0
DETAILS
X
X
C7.0
EROSION CONTROL PLAN
X
X
C7.1
EROSION CONTROL DETAILS
X
X
LIGHTING DESIGN
E0.01
SYMBOLS LIST, GENERAL NOTES & LIST OF DRAWINGS
X
X
X
E0.02
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
X
X
X
E1.10
SITE PLAN - LIGHTING
X
X
X
E2.10
FLOOR PLAN - LIGHTING
X
X
X
E7.10
DETAILS
X
X
E8.10
SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC REPORT
X
X
X
1946 EXISTING RESIDENCE DRAWINGS - FOR REFERENCE ONLY
1 OF 3
PLOT PLAN AND FOUNDATION PLAN
X
X
2 OF 3
FLOOR PLAN AND DETAILS
X
X
3 OF 3
EXTERIOR BUILDING ELEVATIONS AND DETAILS
X
X
3 OF 3
(BACK)
EXTERIOR BUILDING ELEVATIONS AND DETAILS
X
X
1986 EXISTING RESIDENCE ADU DRAWINGS - FOR REFERENCE ONLY
1
SITE PLAN, EXISTING CONDITIONS FLOOR PLAN, SITE
ANALYSIS
X
X
2
NEW FLOOR PLAN
X
X
3
FOUNDATION PLAN
X
X
4
ROOF AND ROOF FRAMING PLAN, GARAGE SECTION,
TRANSVERSE SECTION
X
X
5
EXTERIOR BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
5 (BACK) EXTERIOR BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B

--- page 48 ---
ALIGN
SHEET NUMBER
AX.XX
X
DETAIL NUMBER
1
A
GRID TAG
INTERIOR ELEVATION 
TAG
X
ROOM NAME
101
ROOM NUMBER
ROOM NAME
AX.XX
SECTION TAG
XX
AX.XX
XX
SHEET NUMBER
DETAIL CALLOUT TAG
DETAIL NUMBER
SHEET NUMBER
DETAIL NUMBER
DOOR MARK
DOOR TAG
X00
?
1
?
WINDOW TAG
KEYNOTE TAG
MATERIAL TAG
REVISION TAG
XXXX
SF
XXX
OCC
ROOM NAME
101
ROOM NUMBER
ROOM NAME
XXX X
FIRE RATING DESIGNATION; 
SEE UL LISTING BOOK FOR 
COMPLETE DESCRIPTION OF 
COMPONENTS/ASSEMBLIES 
FOR UL DESIGN NUMBER 
LISTED
PARTITION TYPE
SEQUENTIAL NUMBER
MODIFIER
WALL TAG
REVISION CLOUD
CLOUD REPRESENTS 
EXTENT OF DRAWING 
REVISION; CLOUDED SHEET 
NUMBER REPRESENTS 
EXTENSIVE REVISIONS TO 
ENTIRE SHEET
ROOM TAG
ROOM AREA
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
TRUE NORTH
NORTH ARROW
PROJECT NORTH
SEE WINDOW SCHEDULE
SEE KEYNOTE LEGEND
SEE FINISH SCHEDULE
SEE TITLEBLOCK
SEE WALL SCHEDULE
ALIGN SYMBOL
ALIGN FACE OF FINISH AS 
INDICATED
CEILING TAG
SEE FINISH SCHEDULE
X"
X"
XXXA
XXX
XXX
ELEVATION CHANGE
LEVEL LINE
LEVEL / CTRL PT / DATUM
OCCUPANT LOAD
DIRECTION OF EGRESS
CENTERLINE
PROPERTY LINE
+ X' - X"
SPOT ELEVATION
SHEET NUMBER
DETAIL NUMBER
EXTERIOR ELEVATION 
TAG
AX.XX
X
XXXXX
X' - X"
A.C.T.
1'-0"
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:49:53 PM
G0.01
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
PROJECT INFORMATION
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
VICINITY MAP
BUILDING CODE SUMMARY 
(E)
EXISTING
(N)
NEW
(R)
REMOVE
-E
ELECTRICALLY OPERATED (SOLAR CONTROL)
-M
MANUALLY OPERATED (SOLAR CONTROL)
-R
REMOVABLE, MOUNTED TO DOOR AND SIDELITES ONLY
(SOLAR CONTROL)
#
POUND / NUMBER
&
AND
//
PARALLEL
<
LESS THAN
>
GREATER THAN
@
AT
[
CHANNEL
AB
ANCHOR BOLT
AB
ACOUSTICAL BOARD
ABV
ABOVE
AC
AIR CONDITIONING
ACC
ACCESSIBLE
ACOUS
ACOUSTICAL
ACP
ACOUSTICAL PANEL
ACT
ACOUSTICAL TILE
AD
AREA DRAIN
ADA O
ADA OPERATOR
ADD
ADDITIONAL
ADJ
ADJUSTABLE
AF
ACCESS FLOORING
AFF
ABOVE FINISH FLOOR
AGB
AUTOMATIC GASKET BOTTOM
AGGR
AGGREGATE
AL(HD)
ALUMINUM-HEAVY DUTY
ALT
ALTERNATE
ALUM
ALUMINUM
ANCH
ANCHOR
ANOD
ANODIZED
APPD
APPROVED
APPROX
APPROXIMATE
ARCH
ARCHITECTURAL
ASB
ASBESTOS
ASPH
ASPHALT
AUTO
AUTOMATIC
AV
AUDIO VISUAL
BB
BULLETIN BOARD
BD
BOARD
BEJ
BRICK EXPANSION JOINT
BITUM
BITUMINOUS
BKP
BACKING PLATE
BLDG
BUILDING
BLK
BLOCK
BM
BEAM
BOT/BO
BOTTOM / BOTTOM OF
BRK
BRICK
BS
BLACKOUT SHADE, NO SIDE TRACKS
BSMT
BASEMENT
BT
BOLT
BUR
BUILT-UP ROOFING
CAB
CABINET
CAT
CATEGORY
CB
CATCH BASIN
CBC
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
CBD
CHALK BOARD
CBU
CEMENTITIOUS BACKER UNIT
CEM
CEMENT
CER
CERAMIC
CG
CORNER GUARD
CH
CHILLER
CHAN
CHANNEL
CI
CAST IRON
CIP
CAST-IN-PLACE
CJ
CONTROL JOINT / CONSTRUCTION JOINT
CL
CENTER LINE
CLG
CEILING
CLKG
CAULKING
CLO
CLOSET
CLR
CLEAR
CMU
CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
CNTR
COUNTER
CO
CASED OPENING
COL
COLUMN
COMPRT
COMPARTMENT
CONC
CONCRETE
COND
CONDITION
CONF
CONFERENCE
CONN
CONNECTION
CONSTR
CONSTRUCTION
CONT
CONTINUOUS
CONTR
CONTRACTOR
COORD
COORDINATE
CORR
CORRIDOR
CPT
CARPET
CR
CARD READER
CS
CLEAR SEALED
CT
CERAMIC TILE
CTR
CENTER
CTSK
COUNTER SUNK
CW
COLD WATER (PIPING)
D
DEEP / DEPTH
DA
DISABLED
DBL
DOUBLE
DEG
DEGREE
DEMO
DEMOLITION
DEPT
DEPARTMENT
DET
DETAIL
DF
DRINKING FOUNTAIN
DIA
DIAMETER
DIFF
DIFFUSER
DIM
DIMENSION
DISP
DISPENSER
DMPF
DAMP PROOFING
DMT
DEMOUNTABLE
DN
DOWN
DO
DOOR OPENING
DP
DIMENSION POINT
DPTN
DEMOUNTABLE PARTITION
DR
DOOR
DRN
DRAIN
DS
DUAL SOLAR AND BLACKOUT SHADE
ABBREVIATIONS
SYMBOLS LEGEND
GENERAL NOTES
PROJECT DIRECTORY
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. ALL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP SHALL CONFORM TO THE 
PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS.
2. ALL WORK SHALL MEET OR EXCEED THE MINIMUM STANDARDS OF THE 2022 
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE AND ALL APPLICABLE CODES AND ORDINANCES.
3. INFORMATION CONTAINED WITHIN THESE DOCUMENTS SHALL NOT BE 
CONSTRUED TO PERMIT WORK NOT CONFORMING TO THE APPLICABLE CODES.
4. CONTRACTOR SHALL EXAMINE THE DOCUMENTS AND SHALL NOTIFY THE 
ARCHITECT OF ANY VARIATIONS AND DISCREPANCIES WHICH MAY BE FOUND 
PRIOR TO THE START OF THE WORK.
5. CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW ALL DOCUMENTS TO COORDINATE WITH EXISTING 
SITE CONDITIONS. ANY VARIATIONS AND DISCREPANCIES THAT ARISE IN THIS 
REVIEW ARE TO BE BROUGHT IMMEDIATELY TO THE ARCHITECT'S ATTENTION.
6. ALL DETAILS, SCHEDULES, ADDENDA, AND SPECIFICATIONS BOUND SEPARATELY 
ARE A PART OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
7. DIMENSIONS:
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING DIMENSIONS AND NOTIFY 
ARCHITECT OF ACTUAL FIELD CONDITIONS PRIOR TO LAYOUT OF NEW WORK.
B. IN NO CASE SHALL WORKING DIMENSIONS BE SCALED OFF OF THE 
DRAWINGS.
C. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL DIMENSIONS ARE:
a. TO STRUCTURAL GRID
b. TO FACE OF CONCRETE
c. 
TO FACE OF WALL FINISH
d. TO ROUGH OPENING
e. CEILING ELEVATIONS ARE FROM TOP OF FINISHED FLOOR TO FINISHED 
FACE OF CEILING.
D. COORDINATE WITH EQUIPMENT CONTRACTORS FOR ROUGH-IN DIMENSIONS 
AND TEMPLATES. 
E. ALL DIMENSIONS NOTED TO BE "CLEAR" OR "CLR" MUST BE STRICTLY 
MAINTAINED. "CLEAR" MEANS FROM FACE OF FINISH TO FACE OF FINISH OR 
OBJECT.
F. ALL DIMENSIONS NOTED "VERIFY" OR "VIF" ARE TO BE CHECKED BY THE 
CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. ANY VARIANCE FROM THE 
REQUIRED DIMENSIONS MUST BE BROUGHT IMMEDIATELY TO THE 
ARCHITECT'S ATTENTION.
8. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE TO VERIFY AND COORDINATE WALL AND DOOR 
FRAMES THAT REQUIRE NON-TYPICAL WALL THICKNESS DUE TO STRUCTURAL, 
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
9. INTERIOR PARTITION SOUND INSULATION SHALL BE CONTINUOUS BEHIND 
EQUIPMENT, PANELS, FIXTURES, AND OTHER WALL PENETRATIONS TO MAINTAIN 
ACOUSTIC INTEGRITY.
10. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL MOUNTING HEIGHTS AND SPECIAL STRUCTURAL 
SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS WITH EQUIPMENT AND CASEWORK MANUFACTURERS 
BEFORE INSTALLING BACKING BLOCKS AND SUPPORTS.
11. CONSULTANT DRAWINGS ARE DIAGRAMMATIC. CONTRACTOR / SUB-
CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE TO COORDINATE DEVICE, EQUIPMENT, ETC. 
LOCATIONS WITH ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. NOTIFY 
ARCHITECT OF ANY DISCREPANCIES AND/OR CONFLICTS, IF NOT EXPLICITLY 
LOCATED ON DRAWING.
12. DETAILS MARKED "TYPICAL" SHALL APPLY IN ALL CASES, UON.
13. WHERE NO SPECIFIC DETAIL IS SHOWN, THE FRAMING OR CONSTRUCTION SHALL 
BE IDENTICAL OR SIMILAR TO THAT INDICATED FOR LIKE CASES OF 
CONSTRUCTION ON THE PROJECT.
14. ALL WORK IS UNDERSTOOD TO BE NEW UNLESS NOTED AS EXISTING (E).
15. THE DRAWINGS INDICATE THE GENERAL EXTENT OF CONSTRUCTION NECESSARY 
FOR THE WORK, BUT ARE NOT INTENDED TO BE ALL-INCLUSIVE. ALL DEMOLITION 
AND WORK NECESSARY FOR A FINISHED JOB, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 
INTENTIONS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, IS INCLUDED REGARDLESS OF 
WHETHER IT IS SHOWN IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
16. A MINIMUM OF 65% OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE GENERATED AT THE SITE SHALL 
BE DIVERTED TO RECYCLE OR SALVAGE ACHIEVED BY EITHER USING CITY PRE-
CERTIFIED LANDFILLS OR IMPLEMENTATION OF A WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN 
PER CGBC SECTION 5.408.
TRUE
DS
DOWNSPOUT
DSP
DRY STANDPIPE
DWG
DRAWING
DWR
DRAWER
E
EAST
EA
EACH
EB
EXPANSION BOLT
EFS
EXTERIOR FINISH SYSTEM
EIFS
EXTERIOR INSULATION AND FINISH SYSTEM
EJ
EXPANSION JOINT
EL
ELEVATION
ELEC
ELECTRICAL
ELEV
ELEVATOR
EMER
EMERGENCY
ENCL
ENCLOSURE
EP
ELECTRICAL PANELBOARD
EQ
EQUAL
EQPT
EQUIPMENT
EWC
ELECTRICAL WATER COOL
EXH
EXHAUST
EXP
EXPANSION
EXPO
EXPOSED
EXT
EXTERIOR
FA
FIRE ALARM
FB
FLAT BAR
FC
FACE
FC
FIRE HOSE CABINET
FC
FABRIC WALL COVERING
FCB
FIRE CEMENT BOARD
FD
FLOOR DRAIN
FDC
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONN.
FE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET
FF
FACTORY FINISH
FF&E
FURNITURE FINISHES AND EQUIPMENT
FH
FLAT HEAD
FIN
FINISH
FIXT
FIXTURE
FL
FLOOR
FLASH
FLASHING
FLUOR
FLUORESCENT
FND
FOUNDATION
FO
FACE OF
FOC
FACE OF CONCRETE
FOF
FACE OF FINISH
FOS
FACE OF STUDS
FP
FIRE PROTECTION
FP
FABRIC WRAPPED PANEL
FR
FIREPROOF
FRM
FRAME
FRT
FIRE RETARDANT TREATED WOOD
FSD
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
FT
FEET / FOOT
FTG
FOOTING
FURN
FURNITURE
FURR
FURRING
FUT
FUTURE
GA
GAUGE / GAGE
GALV
GALVANIZED
GB
GRAB BAR
GC
GENERAL CONTRACT(OR)
GFDG
GLASS FIBER REINFORCED GYPSUM
GFRC
GLASS FIBER REINFORCED CONCRETE
GIRDLE
GIRDLING
GL
GLASS / GLAZING
GR
GRADE
GRND
GROUND
GSM
GALVANIZED SHEET METAL
GWB
GYPSUM WALL BOARD
GYP
GYPSUM
HB
HOSE BIB
HC
HOLLOW CORE
HC
HOSE REEL CABINET
HC/V
HONEY-COMB CORE / WD VENEER
HD
HAND DRYER
HDR
HANDRAIL
HDWD
HARDWOOD
HDWE
HARDWARE
HM
HOLLOW METAL
HO
HOLD-OPEN
HORIZ
HORIZONTAL
HP
HIGH POINT
HR
HOUR
HRA
HOT RUBBERIZED ASPHALT
HS
HEAT STRENGTHENED (GLASS)
HT
HEIGHT
HVAC
HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING
HW
HOT WATER
HYDR
HYDRAULIC
ID
INTEGRATED DOOR ASSEMBLY
ID
INSIDE DIAMETER
IE
INVERT ELEVATION
IM
INSULATED (ACOUSTIC) HOLLOW METAL DOOR
IN
INCH
INC
INCLUDE / INCLUDING
INCAN
INCANDESCENT
INFO
INFORMATION
INSUL
INSULATION
INT
INTERIOR
INTERM
INTERMEDIATE
INV
INVERT
IPS
INTERNATIONAL PIPE STANDARD
IRMA
INVERTED ROOF MEMBRANE ASSEMBLY
JAN
JANITOR
JB
JUNCTION BOX
JCL
JANITOR'S CLOSET
JOH
JAMB OPENING HEIGHT
JOW
JAMB OPENING WIDTH
JST
JOIST
JT
JOINT
K
KICK PLATE (STAINLESS STEEL)
KG
KILOGRAM
KIT
KITCHEN
KO
KNOCKOUT
KP
KICK PLATE
LAB
LABORATORY
LAM
LAMINATE / LAMINATION
LAV
LAVATORY
LB
POUND
LD
LANDING
LF
LINEAR FOOT
LH
LONG LEG HORIZONTAL
LKR
LOCKER
LLES
LOW LEVEL EXIT SIGN, SEE LIGHTING DWGS.
LO
LONG
LP
LOW POINT
LT
LIGHT
LV
LONG LEG VERTICAL
LW
LIQUID WRITING CHALKBOARD
MACH
MACHINE
MAINT
MAINTENANCE
MAS
MASONRY
MATL
MATERIAL
MAX
MAXIMUM
MB
HORIZONTAL LOUVER BLINDS (MINI BLINDS)
MB
METAL BOLT
MC
MEDICINE CABINET
MC/V
MINERAL CORE / WD VENEER
MDF
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD
MDO
MEDIUM DENSITY OVERLAY
MECH
MECHANICAL
MEM
MEMBRANE
MEP
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING
MEZZ
MEZZANINE
MFR
MANUFACTURER
MH
MANHOLE
MIN
MINIMUM
MISC
MISCELLANEOUS
ML
MODULE LINE
MM
MILLIMETER
MO
MASONRY OPENING
MP
MIDPOINT
MS
MACHINE SCREW
MT
MOUNTING
MTD
MOUNTED
MTL
METAL
MULL
MULLION
MWF
MATCH WINDOW MULLION FINISH
N
NORTH
NA
NOT APPLICABLE
NC
NOISE CRITERIA
NIC
NOT IN CONTRACT
NO
NUMBER
NR
NON-RATED
NTS
NOT TO SCALE
O/
OVER
OA
OVERALL
OBS
OBSCURE
OC
ON CENTER
OCD
OVERHEAD COILING DOOR
OCEW
ON CENTER EACH WAY
OCG
OVERHEAD COILING GRILLE
OD
OUTSIDE DIAMETER / DIMENSION
OFCI
OWNER FURNISHED. CONTRACTOR INSTALLED
OFD
OVERFLOW DRAIN
OFF
OFFICE
OFOI
OWNER FURNISHED, OWNER INSTALLED
OH
OPPOSITE HAND
OPNG
OPENING
OPP
OPPOSITE
OUTS
OUTSIDE
OVHD
OVERHEAD
P
PRODUCTION
PAV
PAVING
PB
PLUMBING
PBD
PARTICLEBOARD
PC
PRECAST CONCRETE
PCP
PORTLAND CEMENT PLASTER
PDF
POWER DRIVEN FASTENER
PERF
PERFORATED
PERIM
PERIMETER
PERP
PERPENDICULAR
PH
PANIC HARDWARE
PH
PHASE
PISA
PRESSURE SENSITIVE ADHESIVE
PL
PLATE
PLAM
PLASTIC LAMINATE
PLAS
PLASTER
PLF
POUNDS PER LINEAR FOOT
PLYWD
PLYWOOD
PMR
PROTECTED MEMBRANE ROOF
PNL
PANEL
POL
POLISHED
PR
PAIR
PRCST
PRECAST
PREFAB
PREFABRICATED
PROJ
PROJECT
PSF
POUNDS PER SQUARE FOOT
PT
POINT / PAINT
PTD
PAINTED
PTD/R
PAPER TOWEL DISPENSER / RECEPTACLE
PTN
PARTITION
PV
PHOTOVOLTAIC
QT
QUARRY TILE
QTY
QUANTITY
R
RISER
RA
RETURN AIR
RAD
RADIUS
RBI
RESILIENT BASE
RC
RECESSED
RCP
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
RCPT
RECEPTACLE
RD
ROOF DRAIN
RDWD
REDWOOD
RE:
REFER TO
RECOM
RECOMMENDED
REF
REFERENCE
REFL
REFLECTED / REFLECTIVE / REFLECT
REFR
REFRIGERATOR
REG
REGISTER
REINF
REINFORCED / REINFORCING
RELO
RELOCATE
REM
REMOVABLE
REQD
REQUIRE / REQUIRED
RESIL
RESILIENT
REV
REVISION / REVISED / REVERSED
RM
ROOM
RO
ROUGH OPENING
RT
RATING
RTD
RATED
RWL
RAIN WATER LEADER
S
SOUTH
S.STL.
STAINLESS STEEL
S/L
SIDELITE
SA
SUPPLY AIR
SAD
SEE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
SAN
SANITARY
SASK
SERVICE SINK
SASM
SELF-ADHERED SHEET MEMBRANE
SATS
SELF TAPPING SCREW
SC
SOLID CORE
SCD
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
SCHED
SCHEDULE
SCL
SELF-CLOSING DEVICE
SCLC
STRUCTURAL COMPOSITE LUMBER CORE
SD
STORM DRAIN / SOAP DISPENSER
SECT
SECTION
SED
SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
SF
SQUARE FEET / FOOT
SH
SHELF
SHR
SHOWER
SHT
SHEET
SIM
SIMILAR
SJ
SCORE JOINT
SLD
SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
SM
SHEET METAL
SMD
SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
SND
SANITARY NAPKIN DISPENSER
SP
STANDPIPE
SPD
SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS
SPEC
SPECIFICATION
SPKLR
SPRINKLER
SPKR
SPEAKER
SQ
SQUARE
SR
SANITARY NAPKIN RECEPTACLE
SS
SOLAR SHADE
SS
STRUCTURE SLAB (ELEVATION)
SSD
SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
ST
STAIN
STA
STATION
STD
STANDARD
STL
STEEL
STOR
STORAGE
STR
STRUCTURAL
SUBCAT
SUBCATEGORY
SUSP
SUSPENDED
SYM
SYMMETRICAL
SYS
SYSTEM
UNFIN
UNFINISHED
UON
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
URL
URINAL
T
TEMPERED GLASS
T&G
TONGUE AND GROOVE
T/LAM
TEMPERED & LAMINATE GLASS
T/W
TRANSOM WINDOW
TB
TOWEL BAR
TB
TOGGLE BOLT
TBD
TO BE DETERMINED
TEL
TELEPHONE
TEMP
TEMPERATURE
TEMPRD
TEMPERED
TER
TERRAZZO
TH
THRESHOLD
THK
THICKNESS / THICK
THRU
THROUGH
TIS
TENANT IMPROVEMENT STANDARD
T.O.
TOP OF
TOC
TOP OF CONCRETE OR CURB
TOS
TOP OF STEEL, TOP OF SLAB, TOP OF STRUCTURE
TOW
TOP OF WALL
TP
TOP OF PAVEMENT / TOILET PAPER
TPDISP
TOILET PAPER DISPENSER
TR
TRANSLUCENT
TRD
TREAD
TS
TUBE STEEL
TV
TELEVISION
TYP
TYPICAL
VC
VINYL WALL COVERING
VCT
VINYL COMPOSITION TILE
VERT
VERTICAL
VEST
VESTIBULE
VIF
VERIFY IN FIELD
VR
VAPOR RETARDER
VT
VINYL TILE
VTR
VENT THROUGH ROOF
W
WIDE / WIDTH / WEST
W/
WITH
W/O
WITHOUT
WAR
WATER RESISTANT / REPELLANT
WCS
WATER CLOSET
WD
WOOD
WD/MTL
SOLID WOOD/METAL CLAD
WDW
WINDOW
WHM
WELDED HOLLOW METAL
WO
WINDOW OPENING, WHERE OCCURS
WP
WATERPROOF
WPM
WATERPROOF MEMBRANE
WPT
WORK POINT
WS
WEATHER STRIPPING
WS
WOOD SCREW
WSCT
WAINSCOT
WT
WEIGHT
WW
WALL TO WALL
WWM
WELDED WIRE MESH
THE CAREY SCHOOL IS SEEKING TO OBTAIN CITY APPROVALS TO CONSTRUCT A NEW 
EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER (ECC) AT 2033 LA SALLE DRIVE IN SAN MATEO. THE ECC 
WILL SERVE UP TO 75 CHILDREN AGES 2-5 YEARS OLD (THROUGH PK) WITH A TOTAL 
OF 16 TEACHERS. THE HOURS OF OPERATION OF THE CENTER ARE 7:30AM-6PM. 
THERE IS A STAGGERED DROP-OFF AND PICK-UP SCHEDULE WHICH WILL BE 
INCORPORATED AS A PART OF THE PARKING AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN. 
THE BUILDING IS +/- 5,908 SQ FT IN AREA WITH A DETACHED +/- 126 SQ FT TRASH 
ENCLOSURE, AND IT WILL HAVE 6 CLASSROOMS. ADDITIONALLY, IT WILL INCLUDE 
ANCILLARY AND SUPPORT SPACES, SUCH AS A RECEPTION AREA, OFFICE, AND A 
TEACHER WORKROOM. 
EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS WILL INCLUDE AN OUTDOOR PLAY AREA, A GARDEN, NEW 
FENCING, AND AT-GRADE, ON-SITE PARKING. 10 TREES WILL BE REMOVED. TWENTY-
NINE TREES WILL BE PLANTED.
THIS FACILITY WILL BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH STATE DAYCARE LICENSING 
REQUIREMENTS.
SEPARATE PERMITS
PROJECT 
SITE
APPLICANT 
THE CAREY SCHOOL
1 CAREY SCHOOL LANE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
CONTACT: NEELY NORRIS
P:  650.345.2044
E:  NNORRIS@CAREYSCHOOL.ORG
ARCHITECT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE
110 LINDEN STREET
OAKLAND, CA 94607
CONTACT: MICHELLE HUBER
P:  510.836.6594 x 119
E:  MICHELLE@STUDIOBONDY.COM
PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECTFOCUS
3527 MT. DIABLO BLVD. #134
LAFAYETTE, CA 94549
CONTACT; MARA CHASE
P:  415.519.0131
E:  MARA@PROJECT-FOCUS.NET
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
TIPPING STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
1906 SHATTUCK AVENUE
BERKELEY, CA 94704
CONTACT: MARC STEYER
P:  510.549.1906
E:  M.STEYER@TIPPINGSTRUCTURAL.COM
CIVIL ENGINEER
BKF ENGINEERS
2100 FRANKLIN STREET, SUITE 4C
OAKLAND, CA 94612
CONTACT: KEVIN WONG
P:  510.899.7308
E:  KWONG@BKF.COM
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
PLURAL STUDIO
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
CONTACT: HALEY WATERSON
P:  415.450.9519 x703
E:  HALEY@PLURAL.STUDIO
LIGHTING DESIGN
O'MAHONY & MYER
4340 REDWOOD HIGHWAY, SUITE 245
SAN RAFAEL, CA 94903
CONTACT: DAVID ORGISH
P:  415.492.0420 x102
F:  415.479.9662
E:  DORGISH@OMMCONSULTING.COM
ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANT
ACOUSTIC ARTS + ENGINEERING
1016 AMITO DRIVE
BERKELEY, CA 94705
CONTACT: TIM SCHMIDT
P:  415.425.0943
E:  TSCHMIDT@ACOUSTICAE.COM
APPLICABLE CODES AND STANDARDS:
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC) 
2022 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE (CEC) 
2022 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CMC) 
2022 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE (CPC) 
2022 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE (TITLE 24) 
2022 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (CFC) 
2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE 
2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE SUPPLEMENT 
2022 CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS 
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE (CSMMC)
SITE INFORMATION
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
APN:  039-040-080
ZONE R1-B (ONE FAMILY DWELLINGS)
SITE AREA:  26,380 SF
EXISTING PRIMARY RESIDENCE AREA: 1,851 SF
EXISTING GARAGE AREA: 576 SF
EXISTING ADU AREA: 640 SF
EXISTING ACCESSORY STRUCTURE AREA: 891 SF
EXISTING TOTAL BUILDING AREA: 3,958 SF
PROPOSED TOTAL BUILDING AREA (SINGLE STORY):  6,034 SF
ZONING SUMMARY
R1-B: SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO DEMOLISH THE EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY 
HOUSE AND ALLOW A PRIVATE INSTITUTION.
ZONING RECLASSIFICATION TO ADD Q8 OVERLAY.
REQUIRED SETBACKS
R1-B NON-RESIDENTIAL:  
FRONT YARD:
15'-0"
REAR YARD (FIRST FLOOR):
15'-0"
SIDE YARD (INTERIOR):
15'-0"
WATERCOURSE SETBACK:
20'-0" FROM TOP OF BANK
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SITE AREA 
Q8:     0.39 FAR
SITE AREA = 26,380 SF
    26,380 x 0.39 = 10,288 SF
ALLOWABLE AREA = 10,288 SF
(PER SMMC SECTION 27.60.180(G)(3), Q8 OVERLAY DISTRICTS HAVE AN 
MAXIMUM FAR OF 0.39)
*PROPOSED FLOOR AREA
MAIN BUILDING AREA = 5,908 SF
(PER SMMC SECTION 27.04.200(B)(2)(C), COVERED WALKWAYS HAVE BEEN 
EXCLUDED)
TRASH ENCLOSURE AREA = 126 SF
TOTAL PROPOSED FLOOR AREA = 6,034 SF
*ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT PER SMMC SECTION 27.18.050
R1-B:  24 FEET TO THE BUILDING PLATELINE, AND 32 FEET TO THE TOP OF 
ROOF
DAYLIGHT PLANE:  THE DAYLIGHT PLANE HAS A HEIGHT LIMIT OF 12'-0" AT 
EACH SIDE PROPERTY LINE AND EXTENDS INTO THE 
PARCEL AT AN ANGLE OF 45 DEGREES. A STRUCTURE 
SHALL NOT EXTEND PAST THE DAYLIGHT PLANE, WITH 
EXCEPTIONS ALLOWED FOR TELEVISION AND RADIO 
ANTENNAS, CHIMNEYS, FLUES, EAVES, SKYLIGHTS, AND 
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES 
**PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT: 15'-0" AFF (17'-7" AT HIGHEST POINT FROM 
EXISTING FINISH GRADE)
HEIGHT DOES NOT EXCEED 24 FEET AT THE BUILDING PLATELINE, AND 
DOES NOT EXCEED 32 FEET AT THE TOP OF ROOF. NO PART OF THE 
BUILDING EXTENDS PAST THE DAYLIGHT PLANE.
10,288 SF
6,034 SF
ALLOWED
PROPOSED*
TOTAL FLOOR AREA
24'-0"
13'-4 1/8"
ALLOWED*
PROPOSED**
BUILDING HEIGHT
PLATE HEIGHT
32'-0"
15'-0"
ROOF HEIGHT
24
11 ON-SITE, 15
REMOTE
REQUIRED*
PROVIDED**
PARKING SPACES
TOTAL SPACES
1
1
ACCESSIBLE SPACES
3
3
NON-ACCESSIBLE EV 
SPACES
1
1
ACCESSIBLE EV 
SPACES
4
4
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
BICYCLE PARKING
SHORT-TERM 
SPACES
1
1
LONG-TERM 
SPACES
PARKING SUMMARY
*PARKING CALCULATED ON TYPICAL USE OF EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER:
PER SMMC SECTION 27.64.160, 1 STALL IS REQUIRED FOR EACH EMPLOYEE, 
PLUS DESIGNATED SPACES FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING CHILDREN 
ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING RATIOS:
1 SPACE PER 6 PERSONS (OR PORTION THEREOF) LICENSED AT THE 
FACILITY, WITH A MAXIMUM OF 3 SPACES FOR UP TO 30 LICENSED 
PERSONS, AND THEREAFTER SHALL BE PROVIDED AT A RATIO OF 1 
SPACE PER 10 LICENSED PERSONS (OR PORTION THEREOF). THE 
LOADING/UNLOADING SPACES MAY BE LOCATED ON STREET 
FRONTAGES WITH APPROPRIATE PERMITS FOR LOADING ZONES, IN 
DRIVEWAYS, GARAGE APRONS, OR OTHER LOCATIONS ON THE SITE 
THAT DO NOT RESULT IN TANDEM SPACES. THE OVERALL 
REQUIREMENT MAY BE REDUCED BY 1 SPACE BY THE PROVISION OF A 
PERMANENTLY ASSIGNED EMPLOYEE TO ASSIST CHILDREN FROM THE 
DROP-OFF AREA TO THE FACILITY.
15 TEACHERS/AIDES + 1 DIRECTOR (1 STALL FOR EACH EMPLOYEE)
= 16 SPACES
75 CHILDREN: 3 (3 SPACES FOR UP TO 30 LICENSED PERSONS) 
+ 5 (1 SPACE PER ADDITIONAL 10)
= 8 SPACES
TOTAL SPACES REQUIRED: 16 SPACES (TEACHERS) + 8 SPACES (CHILDREN)
= 24 SPACES REQUIRED
TOTAL ACCESSIBLE SPACES REQUIRED:  1 VAN ACCESSIBLE SPACE IS 
REQUIRED PER 1 TO 25 REQUIRED PARKING SPACES PER 2022 CBC TABLE 
11B-208.2 AND SECTION 11B-208.2.4
TOTAL EV SPACES REQUIRED:  4 EV CAPABLE SPACES ARE REQUIRED PER 
2022 CGBC TABLE 5.106.5.3.1. SMMC SECTION 5.106.5.3.3 REQUIRES NON-
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION THAT IS NOT A BUSINESS OR HOTEL / MOTEL 
OCCUPANCY TO PROVIDE 10% OF PROVIDED PARKING SPACES AS LEVEL 2 
EV READY, AND TO PROVIDE 10% OF PROVIDED PARKING SPACES AS LEVEL 2 
EV CAPABLE.  
TOTAL ACCESSIBLE EV CAPABLE SPACES REQUIRED: 1 VAN ACCESSIBLE EV 
CAPABLE SPACE IS REQUIRED PER 2022 CBC SECTION 11B-228.3.2.1 WHERE 1 
TO 4 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS (EVCS) ARE PROVIDED
**ACTUAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED:
11 UNCOVERED PARKING SPACES ARE PROVIDED ON SITE, INCLUDING 2 VAN 
ACCESSIBLE SPACES. ALL 4 EV PARKING SPACES WILL HAVE EV CHARGERS 
INSTALLED, MEETING THE INTENT OF THE 2022 CGBC AND SMMC TO PROVIDE 
EV CAPABLE PARKING SPACES. 
15 ADDITIONAL SPACES WILL BE LEASED AT NEARBY  2000 ALAMEDA DE LAS 
PULGAS, 12 OF WHICH WILL ACCOMMODATE THE REMAINDER OF THE 23 
REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS PER SMMC SECTION 27.64.262 (2) (A) (5):
B. DAY NURSERIES, INCLUDING PRESCHOOLS AND NURSERY SCHOOLS:
1 PER 20 STUDENTS FOR SHORT-TERM AND 1 PER 20 EMPLOYEES FOR LONG-
TERM = 4 SHORT-TERM SPACES AND 1 LONG-TERM SPACE
BUILDING CODE SUMMARY
BUILDING TYPE:
TYPE VB, FULLY SPRINKLERED
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION:
E OCCUPANCY
ALLOWABLE AREA (2022 CBC TABLE 506.2)
SINGLE STORY
TYPE VB, E OCCUPANCY, FULLY SPRINKLERED, NO HEIGHT INCREASE, NO 
AREA INCREASE FOR OPEN SPACE = 28,500 SF ALLOWABLE AREA OF E 
OCCUPANCY
(+/-) 5,975 SF ACTUAL AREA OF E OCCUPANCY 
ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT AND NUMBER OF STORIES
(2022 CBC TABLES 504.3 AND 504.4)
TYPE VB, E OCCUPANCY, FULLY SPRINKLERED, NO HEIGHT INCREASE, NO 
AREA INCREASE FOR OPEN SPACE = 60 FEET AND 2 STORIES ABOVE GRADE 
PLANE
LANDSCAPE PLANTING AREAS
GROUND LEVEL PLANTING AREAS:  (+/-) 4,148 SF
ADDENDUM SCHEDULE
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
A

--- page 49 ---
(E) WOOD 
TRELLIS
(E) RESIDENCE ROOF LINE
(E) SHED, 81 SF
SIDE YARD SETBACK -
NON-RESIDENTIAL
EXISTING RESIDENCE 
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
TOTAL GROSS FLOOR AREA: 3,067 SF
(E) SHED, 100 SF
(E) LAWN AREA
(E) TREES TYP
(E) WOOD 
FENCE 
AND GATE
(E) PLANTING 
AREA
(E) PLANTING 
AREA
(E) PLANTING 
AREA
(E) DRIVEWAY
(E) CURB CUT
(E) CURB CUT
20' - 1 1/2"
15' - 9 5/8"
15' - 0"
15' - 0"
EXISTING GARAGE
N74°55'06"E   213.80'
5' - 0"
S15°29'20"E   116.95'
S73°30'00"W   222.21'
13°38'38"E   122.97'   (R=516.39')
15' - 0"
FRONT YARD SETBACK
REAR YARD SETBACK
(E) WOOD FENCE
(E) SHIPPING 
CONTAINER, 357 SF
(E) CHICKEN 
COOP, 181 SF
(E) SHED, 73 SF
(E) FIREWOOD 
CONTAINER, 30 SF
(E) SHED, 51 SF
(E) SHED, 18 SF
2023 LA SALLE DRIVE
EXISTING RESIDENCE
45' - 0"
LA SALLE DRIVE
WATERCOURSE 
SETBACK
SLOPE SETBACK
3' - 1"
20' 
EMERGENCY 
ACCESS 
EASEMENT
INGRESS/EGRESS, 
GAS, & WATERLINE 
EASEMENT
11' - 3"
8' - 7"
17' - 0"
5' - 5"
(E) SLOPE DOWN
TOP OF BANK
10' - 11"
3' - 9"
12' - 7"
(E) DRIVEWAY
(E) DRIVEWAY
PROPERTY LINE
(E) SLOPE DOWN
(E) CHAIN LINK 
FENCE
CENTERLINE 
OF CREEK
LOCATION OF (E) ADU
GROSS FLOOR AREA: 640 SF
PRIMARY RESIDENCE GROSS FLOOR AREA: 1,851 SF
GARAGE GROSS FLOOR AREA: 576 SF
DEAD TREE TO REMAIN; 
SEE ARBORIST 
REPORT, SLD
B
0
10'
20'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:49:54 PM
A0.00
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EXISTING SITE PLAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1" = 10'-0"
1
EXISTING SITE PLAN
TRUE
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B

--- page 50 ---
1
3
4
5
2
6
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:49:59 PM
EXISTING RESIDENCE
PHOTOGRAPHS
A0.01
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
4
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE EAST
3
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE SOUTH
2
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE AT GARAGE WEST
1
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE WEST
5
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE NORTH
6
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE NORTH COURT
EXISTING RESIDENCE PHOTOS KEY
TRUE
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
+/- 16'-6"
ADU
+/- 13'-0"
+/- 16'-6"
ADU
+/- 17'-0"
+/- 13'-0"
ADU
4
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE EAST
3
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE SOUTH
5
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE NORTH
6
EXISTING HOUSE FACADE NORTH COURT

--- page 51 ---
2033
2023
2013
2007
2001
2001 ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS
W 20TH AVE
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
THE CAREY SCHOOL
LA SALLE DRIVE
6
5
2
1
3
4
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:00 PM
EXISTING CONTEXT
PHOTOGRAPHS
A0.02
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1
2001 ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS - FACING NORTH WEST
2
VIEW DOWN LA SALLE DRIVE - FACING NORTH
EXISTING CONTEXT PHOTOS KEY
TRUE
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
3
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE - FACING EAST
4
2023 LA SALLE DRIVE - FACING EAST
5
2013 LA SALLE DRIVE - FACING EAST
6
2001 LA SALLE DRIVE - FACING EAST
A
B

--- page 52 ---
1. GENERAL CONTRACTOR TO SCHEDULE A PRE-DEMOLITION MEETING 
WITH THE ARCHITECT AND DEMOLITION TEAM TO REVIEW AND 
CLARIFY SCOPE OF WORK OF DEMOLITION.
2. ARCHITECTURAL DEMOLITION PLANS SHOW EXTENT OF 
ARCHITECTURAL DEMOLITION ONLY. REFER TO CIVIL AND LANDSCAPE 
ARCHITECTURE DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL DEMOLITION 
INFORMATION AND DEMOLITION PROTECTION INFORMATION.
3. PROTECT ALL EXISTING SITE APPURTENANCES TO REMAIN DURING 
DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION.
4. U.O.N. (E) SITE RETAINING WALLS ARE TO REMAIN.
5. GENERAL CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE WITH CIVIL AND LANDSCAPE 
ARCHITECT BEFORE THE DEMOLITION OF ANY EXISTING OBSOLETE/ 
UNUSED SITE APPURTENANCES NOT NOTED TO BE REMOVED OR 
REROUTED.
6. COORDINATE DEMOLITION WITH NEW CONSTRUCTION.
7. REFER TO ARBORIST REPORT FOR TREE NUMBERING AND 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
8. PROJECT ARBORIST SHALL COMPLETE INSPECTION ON AN AS-
NEEDED BASIS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PERIOD AND SHALL 
SUBMIT A MONTHLY REPORT OF FINDINGS TO PLANNER ASSIGNED TO 
PROJECT.
9. DURING CONSTRUCTION, THE RIPARIAN TREES AND THE SENSITIVE 
AREAS BELOW TOP OF BANK (TOB) BE PROTECTED WITH 
APPROPRIATE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs), WHICH MAY 
INCLUDE FIBER ROLLS AND "ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA" 
FENCING - VIF.
NOTES - DEMOLITION PLANS
PROPERTY LINE
LEGEND
DEMOLISHED CONSTRUCTION
TREE TO BE REMOVED
CREEK BANK
EXISTING GARAGE
DEMOLISH (E) 
WOOD TRELLIS
DEMOLILSH ALL (E) SHEDS
DEMOLISH EXISTING 
RESIDENCE AND ADU
(E) SLOPE DOWN
(E) SLOPE DOWN
DEMOLISH (E) SHEDS
CLEAR AND GRUB 
(E) LAWN AREA
DEMOLISH (E) WOOD FENCE, 
GATE AND FOUNDATIONS
CLEAR AND 
GRUB (E) 
PLANTING 
AREA
DEMOLISH (E) DRIVEWAY; 
PREP FOR PARKING LOT
PROPERTY LINE
DEMOLISH (E) 
CURB CUT
DEMOLISH (E) 
CURB CUT
CLEAR AND 
GRUB (E) 
PLANTING 
AREA
CLEAR AND GRUB (E) 
PLANTING AREA 
REMOVE (E) SHIPPING 
CONTAINER AND 
PLATFORMS
DEMOLISH (E) 
CHICKEN COOP
(E) RIP RAP AREA; 
REMOVE AS REQ'D TO 
INSTALL RETAINING WALL 
AND FENCING
(E) RIP RAP AREA; REMOVE AS 
REQUIRED TO INSTALL FENCING AND 
LANDSCAPING
CLEAR AND GRUB ALL GROUND COVER, 
SHRUBS, SOD, & BOULDERS AND PREP 
SITE FOR RE-GRADING
DEMOLISH (E) DRIVEWAY; 
PREP FOR PARKING LOT
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE; 
PROTECT IN PLACE
CLEAR AND GRUB (E) 
PLANTING AREA 
CLEAR AND GRUB 
(E) PLANTING AREA
EXISTING WOOD FENCE; 
PROTECT IN PLACE
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE; 
PROTECT IN PLACE
PROTECT (E) CREEK BANK; NO 
WORK IN THIS AREA, SHADED IN 
GREY
2023 LA SALLE DRIVE
EXISTING RESIDENCE
LA SALLE DRIVE
CENTERLINE OF 
CREEK
TOP OF BANK
PROTECT (E) 
REDWOOD TREES IN 
PLACE
DEAD TREE TO REMAIN; 
SEE ARBORIST 
REPORT, SLD
B
0
10'
20'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:01 PM
A0.10
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
SITE DEMOLITION PLAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
TRUE
1" = 10'-0"
1
SITE DEMOLITION PLAN
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
A
A
B

--- page 53 ---
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
11 PARKING 
SPACES
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION WITH 
STEEL SUPPORTS
POTENTIAL SOLAR PANEL 
LOCATIONS; ACTUAL PANEL 
NUMBER AND LAYOUT TBD
MECHANICAL WELL
EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER
PROPOSED GROSS FLOOR 
AREA: 6,034 SF
WOOD PROJECTION WITH STEEL 
SUPPORTS, TYP
STANDING SEAM METAL ROOF
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION WITH 
STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
ROOF ACCESS HATCH
SLOPE DOWN
SLOPE DOWN
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION
OUTDOOR PLAY AREA
 
SIDE YARD SETBACK - RESIDENTIAL
EXISTING GARAGE
15' - 0"
SHORT-TERM BICYCLE 
PARKING TYP
LEVEL 2 EV CHARGER 
LOCATION AND SPACE
LONG-TERM BICYCLE PARKING 
ENCLOSURE
GARDEN
GROVE
OUTDOOR AREA TYP.
APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF 
EXISTING TREE TYP
PROPOSED TREE LOCATION; 
SEE LANSCSAPE DRAWINGS
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
18' - 0"
24' - 0 1/2"
17' - 0"
RAINWATER LEADER TYP
PROPOSED 
PARKING LOT
S15°29'20"E   116.95'
S73°30'00"W   222.21'
N74°55'06"E   213.80'
13°38'38"E   122.97'   (R=516.39')
FRONT YARD SETBACK
REAR YARD SETBACK
15' - 0"
LINE OF BUILDING BELOW TYP
LINE OF BUILDING 
BELOW TYP
LEVEL 2 EV CHARGER 
LOCATION AND SPACES
LEVEL 2 EV CHARGER 
LOCATION AND SPACE
LA SALLE DRIVE
2023 LA SALLE DRIVE
EXISTING RESIDENCE
5' - 0"
TOP OF BANK
20' - 0"
WATERCOURSE SETBACK
SLOPE SETBACK
15' - 0"
20' - 1 1/2"
18' - 0"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
32'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
30'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
7'-0" WOOD FENCE, TYP
20' EMERGENCY 
ACCESS 
EASEMENT
INGRESS/EGRESS, GAS, & 
WATERLINE EASEMENT
PROPERTY LINE
POLE MOUNTED PARKING 
LOT LIGHT FIXTURE, TYP
17' - 0"
5' - 5"
(E) CHAIN LINK 
FENCE
CENTERLINE OF 
CREEK
5 1/2"
1' - 11 1/2"
5 1/2"
5 1/2"
5 1/2"
5 1/2"
253 SF
MECHANICAL WELL
201
5 1/2"
5 1/2"
18'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
16'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
PROPOSED 
TRANSFORMER 
LOCATION
4'-0" WIDE CHAIN LINK ACCESS 
GATE
MAINTENANCE ACCESS 
GATE
6'-0" CHAIN LINK FENCE, TYP.
4'-0" GUARDRAIL ON 
CONCRETE RETAINING 
WALL
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE ON 
(E) RETAINING WALL
A
PROPOSED BIORETENTION 
AREA AND RETAINING 
WALL; SLD, SCD
PROPOSED BIORETENTION 
AREA TYP; SLD, SCD
ACCESSIBLE WALKWAY
B
A
A
A
PROPOSED BIORETENTION 
AREA; SLD, SCD
4' - 0"
4' - 0"
6
7
8
9
10
11
16' - 3 1/4"
5' - 0"
8' - 6"
8' - 6"
8' - 6"
8' - 6"
8' - 6"
8' - 6"
4
5
1
2
3
COMPACT
20' - 4 1/2"
A
B
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
20' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 0"
9' - 0"
COMPACT
COMPACT
LOADING ZONE 
PER SMMC 
27.64.320
25' - 0"
10' - 0"
B
BOLLARD TYP
B
B
CLR, TYP
5' - 0"
CLR, TYP
5' - 0"
DEAD TREE TO REMAIN; 
SEE ARBORIST 
REPORT, SLD
B
PUBLIC WORKS ACCESS 
TO CREEK PER FUTURE 
ACCESS AGREEMENT -
EXISTING GRADES WILL 
BE RETAINED; SCD
1. REFER TO SURVEY FOR LOCATIONS OF EXISTING SITE UTILITIES.
2. SEE SHEET G0.01 FOR PARKING REQUIREMENT CALCULATIONS.
3. DURING CONSTRUCTION, THE RIPARIAN TREES AND THE SENSITIVE 
AREAS BELOW TOP OF BANK (TOB) BE PROTECTED WITH 
APPROPRIATE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs), WHICH MAY 
INCLUDE FIBER ROLLS AND "ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA" 
FENCING - VIF.
4. STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFS TO SLOPE 1/4" PER FOOT MIN. UON.
5. STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING MUST BE CLASS A AND HAVE A 
SOLAR REFLECTANCE INDEX OF 75 MIN.
6. TYPICAL ROOF RIGID INSULATION THICKNESS TO BE 5" (MIN. 
THICKNESS 1/2").
7. ROOF CRICKET SLOPES ARE TO BE 1/2" PER FOOT, UON.
8. CRICKET ANGLES ARE TO BE 30 DEGREES, UON.
9. SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER SYSTEMS SHALL BE INSTALLED IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH 2022 CFC 1205, 2022 CBC 1511.9, AND THE CA 
ELECTRICAL CODE.
NOTES - SITE & ROOF PLAN
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
LEGEND
CENTERLINE OF CREEK
0
10'
20'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:01 PM
SITE AND ROOF PLAN
A1.00
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1" = 10'-0"
1
SITE AND ROOF PLAN
TRUE
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B

--- page 54 ---
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:01 PM
PROJECT CONCEPTUAL
RENDERINGS
A1.01
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2
VIEW OF FRONT ENTRY - SOUTHWEST VIEW
4
VIEW OF OUTDOOR AREA - EAST VIEW (OUTDOOR FURNITURE HIDDEN)
3
VIEW FROM PLAY YARD AREA - SOUTH VIEW (FENCE, TREES, & PLAY EQUIPMENT HIDDEN)
1
VIEW OF ENTRY FROM STREET - WEST VIEW (STREET TREES HIDDEN)
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 55 ---
FD
FD
FD
FD
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
FD
FD
FD
60' - 2 7/8"
38' - 11"
34' - 4"
MAIN BUILDING
5,907.5 SF
TRASH ENCLOSURE
125.9 SF
25' - 3"
31' - 7"
131' - 11 7/8"
1' - 6"
LA SALLE DRIVE
B
B
B
B
FLOOR AREA CALCULATION
R1-B
10,288 SF (0.39 FAR)
5,907.5 SF
*     Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.60.180(g)(3)
**   Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.200(b)(2)(c), covered walkways have been 
excluded
*** See Sheet G0.01 PROJECT INFORMATION - ZONING SUMMARY for ALLOWABLE 
FLOOR AREA calculations
MAIN BUILDING GROSS AREA**
TRASH ENCLOSURE GROSS AREA
TOTAL PROPOSED FLOOR AREA
DISTRICT
125.9 SF
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE FAR*
6,033.4 SF ***
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:02 PM
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
A1.02
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
TRUE
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FLOOR AREA CALCULATION DIAGRAM
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 56 ---
FD
FD
FD
FD
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
FD
FD
FD
PROPERTY LINE
LEGEND
WD STUD FRAME & GWB FINISHED WALL, U.O.N.
DOOR w/ DESIGNATION MARK; SEE DOOR 
SCHEDULE
101A
__________
A3.00
1
__________
A3.00
6
__________
A3.00
5
__________
A3.00
2
__________
A3.00
4
__________
A3.00
3
630 SF
CLASSROOM 1
108
731 SF
CLASSROOM 6
106
631 SF
CLASSROOM 2
109
630 SF
CLASSROOM 3
111
632 SF
CLASSROOM 4
112
633 SF
CLASSROOM 5
114
356 SF
RECEPTION
101
72 SF
OFFICE
102
54 SF
WC
103
138 SF
WC
107
111 SF
WC
110
111 SF
WC
113
199 SF
WORKROOM
104
60' - 2 3/4"
38' - 11"
34' - 4"
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION
WOOD PROJECTION ABOVE WITH 
STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
MAIN 
ENTRY
EXIT
EXIT
PROPOSED EARLY CHILDHOOD CENTER 
GROSS FLOOR AREA: 6,034 SF
35 SF
SICK AREA
101A
2023 LA SALLE DRIVE
EXISTING GARAGE
EXISTING RESIDENCE
TRASH ENCLOSURE
119
121
OUTDOOR
AREA
122
OUTDOOR
AREA
123
OUTDOOR
AREA
PLAY YARD
120
C
A
A
A
C
B
A
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
27' - 3"
22' - 6 3/4"
22' - 7 1/4"
22' - 6 3/4"
32' - 8"
22' - 6 3/4"
32' - 9"
13' - 3"
10' - 6"
10' - 6"
10' - 8"
10' - 6"
8' - 10"
16' - 5"
6' - 10"
13' - 5"
12' - 8"
8' - 5 3/8"
8' - 7"
7' - 5"
7' - 4 5/8"
WOOD ENTRY 
PROJECTION WITH 
STEEL SUPPORTS
CENTERLINE OF CREEK
1
A3.10
__________
4
A3.10
__________
2
A3.10
__________
3
A3.10
__________
5
A3.10
__________
10' - 8"
30' - 10 1/2"
5' - 10 3/8"
5' - 1"
30' - 10"
30' - 10"
11' - 6 1/4"
7' - 10 3/4"
12' - 2"
65 SF
WC
116
108 SF
BREAKOUT RM
117
9 SF
FIRE RISER
106A
102 SF
IT / STORAGE
115
6' - 1"
22' - 6 3/4"
24' - 7 1/2"
8' - 7 1/4"
10' - 7"
8' - 2 1/2"
4' - 10 1/4"
5' - 0"
10' - 6"
5' - 11 1/4"
5' - 0"
8' - 9"
5' - 0"
5' - 1 3/4"
6' - 1 1/2"
10' - 10"
13' - 3"
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
96 
GAL
8' - 0"
6' - 3 1/2"
PROPOSED EXTERIOR ELECTRICAL 
PANEL, TEL AND DATA PANELS, AND 
PV INVERTER/DISCONNECT LOCATION
PROPOSED 
TRANSFORMER 
LOCATION
TOP OF BANK
A
A
A
A
32'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
30'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
18'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
16'-0" TURNING 
RADIUS
4' - 0"
4' - 0"
ACCESSIBLE WALKWAY
B
B
DN 1:12
DN 1:12
LOADING ZONE 
PER SMMC 
27.64.320
25' - 0"
10' - 0"
B
LA SALLE DRIVE
4' - 0"
B
B
5' - 0"
4' - 0"
13' - 0"
6' - 6"
PUBLIC WORKS ACCESS 
TO CREEK PER FUTURE 
ACCESS AGREEMENT -
EXISTING GRADES WILL 
BE RETAINED; SCD
DEAD TREE TO REMAIN; 
SEE ARBORIST 
REPORT, SLD
B
5'-2" WIDE X 5'-2" HIGH
WINDOW SIZE LEGEND
A
8'-11" WIDE X 5'-0" HIGH
B
6'-9" WIDE X 6'-8" HIGH
C
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:02 PM
A2.10
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
FLOOR PLAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FLOOR PLAN
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
TRUE

--- page 57 ---
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
1. BUILDING SHALL MEET OR EXCEED THE PROVISIONS OF CALIFORNIA 
BUILDING CODE, CCR, TITLE 24, PART 2, CHAPTER 14 (EXTERIOR 
WALLS).
NOTES - ELEVATIONS
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION 
BEYOND
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE 
HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
ALUM STOREFRONT WINDOW; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
CLASSROOM ENTRY AND SIDE PANEL, TYP.; MATCH KELLY 
MOORE KMA2 "CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) OR SIM
RAINWATER LEADER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY 
MOORE HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) 
OR SIM
ELECTRICAL PANELS
WC/JANITOR
135.00°
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
12' - 0"
DAYLIGHT PLANE
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND, 
TYP
IT/STORAGE RM
ACCESSIBLE PEDESTRIAN 
GATE SHOWN IN SECTION
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
EXTERIOR LIGHT FIXTURE, 
TYP
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
17' - 7"
1 1/4" / 1'-0"
1" / 1'-0"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
12' - 7"
GUARDRAIL BEYOND WITH 
MAINTENANCE ACCESS GATE
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE ON 
(E) RETAINING WALL
BREAKOUT RM
PROPOSED TRANSFORMER 
LOCATION BEYOND
A
A
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
ALUM STOREFRONT WINDOW; DARK 
BRONZE FINISH
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL ROOF) 
W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY 
MOORE HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-
WHITE) OR SIM
CLASSROOM ENTRY AND SIDE PANEL, TYP.; MATCH 
KELLY MOORE KMA2 "CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) 
OR SIM
RAINWATER LEADER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE 
HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
135.00°
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
CONTINUATION OF FENCE 
BEYOND NOT SHOWN FOR 
CLARITY
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
7' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
17' - 7"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
12' - 7"
135.00°
12' - 0"
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
12' - 0"
15' - 0"
6' - 0"
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND 
WITH STEEL POSTS, TYP
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
1 1/4" / 1'-0"
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION WITH STEEL 
SUPPORTS, TYP
6' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
ENTRANCE FROM PLAY YARD
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
ALUMINUM WINDOWS, TYP.; DARK 
BRONZE FINISH
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE HLS4201 
"ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, TYP.; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
CLASSROOM ENTRY AND SIDE PANEL, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE KMA2 
"CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) OR SIM
135.00°
LINE OF MECHANICAL WELL 
BEYOND
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
WOOD FENCE BEYOND WITH 
STEEL POSTS, TYP
DAYLIGHT PLANE
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
EXTERIOR LIGHT FIXTURE, TYP
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
16' - 8"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
15' - 0"
1 1/4" / 1'-0"
1" / 1'-0"
8' - 8" TYP
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE ON (E) RETAINING WALL
CHAIN LINK FENCE
GUARDRAIL WITH 
MAINTENANCE ACCESS 
GATE BEYOND
PROPOSED 
TRANSFORMER 
LOCATION
6' - 0"
5' - 1 1/4"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
7' - 0"
15' - 0"
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
A
A
4' - 0"
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
MAIN ENTRY
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
MECHANICAL 
WELL
ALUMINUM WINDOWS, 
TYP.; DARK BRONZE FINISH
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF 
(COOL ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE 
HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
RAINWATER LEADER, TYP; MATCH KELLY 
MOORE HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-
WHITE) OR SIM
135.00°
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION
TILE WALL; MATCH KELLY MOORE KMA2 
"CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) OR SIM
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
WOOD FENCE WITH 
STEEL POSTS, TYP
PAINTED ALUMINUM 
DIMENSIONAL SIGNAGE
1' - 8 3/8"
4' - 2"
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
12' - 0"
FIRE RISER ROOM
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
13' - 7"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
8' - 7"
135.00°
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
12' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
50% OPEN 
FROM 6'-0" - 7'-0"
BOLLARD, TYP
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
OPEN 
TO 
BEYOND
ALUM STOREFRONT WINDOW; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE 
HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
135.00°
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND 
WITH STEEL POSTS, TYP
DAYLIGHT PLANE
CONTINUATION OF FENCE BEYOND 
NOT SHOWN FOR CLARITY
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
7' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
14' - 7"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
12' - 11"
1 1/4" / 1'-0"
8' - 8" TYP
WOOD  FENCE WITH STEEL POSTS
6' - 0"
15' - 0"
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
12' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
OPEN 
TO 
BEYOND
ALUM STOREFRONT WINDOW; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL ROOF) 
W/ MTL FASCIA
CEMENT PLASTER, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE 
HLS4201 "ADOBE WHITE" (OFF-WHITE) OR SIM
CHAIN LINK FENCE 
BEYOND, TYP
135.00°
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
17' - 1"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
15' - 5"
1 1/4" / 1'-0"
8' - 8" TYP
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND WITH STEEL 
POSTS
TILE WALL; MATCH KELLY MOORE KMA2 
"CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) OR SIM
6' - 0"
GUARDRAIL BEYOND
7' - 0"
15' - 0"
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
12' - 0"
A
A
CEMENT PLASTER BUILDING WALLS:
KELLY MOORE HLS4201 ADOBE WHITE, 
OR SIM
ALUMINUM CLASSROOM DOORS & SIDE 
PANELS AND ENTRY TILE:
KELLY MOORE KMA2 CROSS MY HEART, 
OR SIM
STANDING SEAM METAL ROOF:
AEP REGAL WHITE, OR SIM
TYPICAL ALUMINUM STOREFRONT 
WINDOW FRAMES:
DARK BRONZE
MATERIALS LEGEND
METAL FASCIA:
TIGER RAL 7004, OR SIM
PAINTED ALUMINUM DIMENSIONAL 
SIGNAGE: 
TIGER RAL 9003, OR SIM
1
2
3
6
4
5
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:05 PM
EXTERIOR BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
A3.00
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1/8" = 1'-0"
6
EXTERIOR ELEVATION NORTH
1/8" = 1'-0"
5
EXTERIOR ELEVATION  EAST
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION SOUTH
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION WEST
1/8" = 1'-0"
3
EXTERIOR ELEVATION EAST @ PLAY YARD
1/8" = 1'-0"
4
EXTERIOR ELEVATION WEST @ PLAY YARD
PROPOSED CHILDHOOD CENTER ELEVATION KEY
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 58 ---
1. ALL DIMENSIONS NOTED AS "VIF" TO BE REVIEWED WITH 
ARCHITECT. NOTIFY ARCHITECT OF ANY DISCREPANCIES WITH 
DIMENSIONS NOTED AS "VIF".
2. DIMENSIONS ARE TO FACE OF FINISH, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. 
CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATING THICKNESS OF 
ALL FINISH MATERIALS.
3. DO NOT SCALE OFF DRAWINGS. NOTIFY ARCHITECT OF ANY 
OMITTED DIMENSIONS.
NOTES - SECTIONS
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
RECEPTION
101
WORKROOM
104
CLASSROOM 5
114
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA; SEE EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS FOR COLORS
ACCESSIBLE BUILT-IN 
CASEWORK
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION 
WITH STEEL SUPPORTS, TYP
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, TYP.; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
CLASSROOM ENTRY AND SIDE PANEL, TYP.; MATCH KELLY MOORE KMA2 
"CROSS MY HEART" (CAREY RED) OR SIM
135.00°
12' - 0"
MECHANICAL WELL AND 
ROOF ACCESS HATCH
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND 
WITH STEEL POSTS, TYP
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
DAYLIGHT PLANE
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
EXTERIOR LIGHT 
FIXTURE, TYP
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
11' - 0"
12' - 3"
9' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
15' - 1"
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
16' - 8"
GUARDRAIL BEYOND WITH MAINTENANCE 
ACCESS GATE
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE ON (E) 
RETAINING WALL
CHAIN LINK FENCE
50% OPEN FROM 6'-0" - 7'-0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
A
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
CLASSROOM 6
106
CLASSROOM 1
108
CLASSROOM 2
109
CLASSROOM 3
111
CLASSROOM 4
112
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA; SEE EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS FOR COLORS
WOOD ENTRY PROJECTION WITH STEEL 
SUPPORTS
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, TYP.; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
135.00°
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND 
WITH STEEL POSTS, TYP
DAYLIGHT PLANE
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 2"
8' - 2"
8' - 2"
8' - 2"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 10"
11' - 9"
11' - 9"
11' - 9"
SLOPED CEILING SEE 
SECTION 3
SLOPED CEILING SEE 
SECTION 4
SLOPED CEILING SEE 
SECTION 4
SLOPED CEILING SEE 
SECTION 4
11' - 0"
9' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
17' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
12' - 7"
GUARDRAIL
(E) CHAIN LINK FENCE ON (E) RETAINING WALL
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
50% OPEN FROM 6'-0" - 7'-0"
4' - 0"
6' - 0"
A
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
CLASSROOM 2
109
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA; SEE EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS FOR COLORS
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, TYP.; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
135.00°
LINE OF MECHANICAL WELL 
BEYOND
8' - 2" TYP
12' - 3"
9' - 0"
DAYLIGHT PLANE
CONTINUATION OF FENCE 
BEYOND NOT SHOWN FOR 
CLARITY
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
7' - 0"
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION 
WOOD  FENCE 
BEYOND WITH STEEL 
POSTS, TYP
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
14' - 7"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
12' - 11"
6' - 0"
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
CLASSROOM 6
106
RECEPTION
101
WC
103
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA; SEE EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS FOR COLORS
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, TYP.; 
DARK BRONZE FINISH
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION 
WOOD  FENCE 
BEYOND WITH STEEL 
POSTS, TYP
DAYLIGHT PLANE
CONTINUATION OF FENCE 
BEYOND NOT SHOWN FOR 
CLARITY
135.00°
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
6' - 0"
7' - 0"
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
10' - 7"
SLOPED CEILING SEE 
SECTION 1
9' - 0"
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
13' - 4"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
11' - 10"
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
FIRST FLOOR
0"
ROOF EAVE
11' - 6"
ROOF RIDGE
15' - 0"
CLASSROOM 4
112
CLASSROOM 5
114
STANDING SEAM MTL ROOF (COOL 
ROOF) W/ MTL FASCIA; SEE EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS FOR COLORS
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW, 
TYP.; DARK BRONZE FINISH
135.00°
DAYLIGHT PLANE
SOLAR PANELS, TYP
9' - 0"
CONTINUATION OF FENCE 
BEYOND NOT SHOWN FOR 
CLARITY
MAX ROOF HT
32'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
MAX TOP PLATE HT
24'-0" ABOVE EXISTING GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
ELEVATION VARIES, SEE SURVEY 
(ELEV 68.9')
(ELEV 80.4')
(ELEV 83.9')
6' - 0"
7' - 0"
PROPOSED TRASH 
ENCLOSURE LOCATION 
CHAIN LINK FENCE BEYOND
SLOPED CEILING 
SEE SECTION 1
SLOPED CEILING 
SEE SECTION 2
10' - 1"
9' - 8"
117
BREAKOUT
RM
(E) GRADE TO ROOF PEAK
17' - 7"
(E) GRADE TO TOP PLATE
13' - 9"
WOOD  FENCE BEYOND 
WITH STEEL POSTS, TYP
50% OPEN FROM 
6'-0" - 7'-0"
8' - 2"
8' - 2"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:07 PM
BUILDING SECTIONS
A3.10
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
BUILDING SECTION EAST-WEST THROUGH RECEPTION AND CLASSROOM 5
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
BUILDING SECTION EAST-WEST THROUGH EXTENDED CARE CLASSROOM AND CLASSROOMS 1, 2, 3, AND 4
1/8" = 1'-0"
4
BUILDING SECTION NORTH-SOUTH THROUGH CLASSROOM 2
1/8" = 1'-0"
3
BUILDING SECTION NORTH-SOUTH THROUGH RECEPTION AND MULTIPURPOSE SPACE
1/8" = 1'-0"
5
BUILDING SECTION NORTH-SOUTH THROUGH CLASSROOMS 4 AND 5
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 59 ---
WH
CLASSROOM 1
108
CLASSROOM 6
106
CLASSROOM 2
109
CLASSROOM 3
111
CLASSROOM 4
112
CLASSROOM 5
114
RECEPTION
101
OFFICE
102
WC
103
WC
107
WC
110
WC
113
+9' - 0"
+9' - 0"
WORKROOM
104
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+9' - 0"
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
SICK AREA
101A
+9' - 0"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 10'-0"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 12'-3"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 12'-3"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 12'-3"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 11'-0"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 12'-3"
VARIES
9'-0" TO 11'-0"
IT / STORAGE
115
+9' - 0"
COVERED 
WALKWAY
COVERED 
WALKWAY
EXTERIOR 
BUILDING 
LIGHT, TYP
SURFACE 
MOUNTED 
LINEAR 
PROJECTION 
FIXTURE, TYP
NO CLG
+9' - 0"
NO 
CLG
BREAKOUT RM
117
WC
116
FIRE RISER
106A
TRASH ENCLOSURE
119
A
A
1. DIMENSIONING SYSTEM: UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, DIMENSIONS 
ARE MEASURED TO:
A. FACE OF FINISH
B. STRUCTURAL GRID
C. CENTERLINE OF OPENING (DOOR, WINDOW, ETC).
2. SEE LIGHTING DWGS FOR LIGHT FIXTURE INFORMATION.
3. ALIGN SUSPENDED GRID LAYOUT TO CENTER IN ROOM OR CENTER IN 
SUSPENDED CEILING CLOUD, UON.
4. RECESSED LIGHT FIXTURES TO BE CENTERED IN CEILING PANELS, TYP.
5. SOME EQUIPMENT AND LIGHTS SHOWN FOR COORDINATION ONLY.
NOTES - RCP
UTILITY SURFACE
MOUNTED LED LIGHT
LINEAR PENDANT LED LIGHT
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT
SURFACE MOUNTED FIXTURE
LEGEND
WALL MOUNTED DOWNLIGHT
RECESSED WALL WASHER
UNDERCABINET LIGHT
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:07 PM
A6.10
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
TRUE
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 60 ---
FD
FD
FD
FD
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
FD
FD
FD
1. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES RUNNING SLOPE NOT TO EXCEED 5% IN THE 
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL, AND CROSS SLOPE NOT TO EXCEED 2%, PER 
2022 CBC 11B-403.3; WHERE SLOPE EXCEEDS 5% PEDESTRIAN RAMPS 
SHALL BE PROVIDED AND SHALL COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 11B-405.
2. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES NOT TO HAVE ABRUPT CHANGE IN LEVEL, 
CHANGE IN LEVEL BETWEEN 1/4" AND 1/2" SHALL BE BEVELED WITH A 
SLOPE NOT STEEPER THAN 1:2, PER 2022 CBC 11B-303.3.
3. THE CLEAR WIDTH FOR SIDEWALKS AND WALKS SHALL BE 48" 
MINIMUM PER CBC SECTION 11B-403.5.1, EXCEPTION 3.
4. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES SHOULD PROVIDE CLEARANCE WIDTH OF 44" 
MIN WHEN SERVING ELEMENTS ON BOTH SIDES PER 2022 CBC 
11B-403.5.1, EXCEPTION 4.
5. A 60" BY 60" MINIMUM PASSING SPACE SHALL BE PROVIDED AT 200 
F00T INTERVALS ALONG ACCESSIBLE ROUTES THAT ARE LESS THAN 
60 INCHES WIDE PER CBC SECTION 11B-403.5.3.
6. ALL ACCESSIBLE ROUTES OF TRAVEL DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE SHALL 
COMPLY WITH CBC SECTION 1009.10 AND 11B-703.5.
7. ALL SYMBOLS OF ACCESSIBILITY SHALL COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 
11B-703.7.
8. ALL ENTRANCES AND ALL EXTERIOR GROUND LEVEL EXITS SHALL 
COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 11B-404.
9. ALL ENTRANCES AND ALL EXTERIOR GROUND LEVEL EXISTS SHALL 
HAVE LEVEL LANDINGS ON EACH SIDE OF THE DOOR, WHICH SHALL 
NOT BE MORE THAN 1/2" LOWER THAN THE THRESHOLD OF THE 
DOORWAY PER 2022 CBC 11B-303.3.
10. ASSISTIVE LISTENING SYSTEMS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 
11B-703.7.2.4 AND SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY THE INTERNATIONAL 
SYMBOL OF ACCESS AND HEAR LOSS COMPLYING WITH FIGURE 
11B-703.7.2.4
11. PROVIDE TACTILE EXIT SIGNS PER 2022 CBC SEC 1013.4.
12. PROVIDE MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION PER 2022 CBC SEC. 1008. 
MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN 1 FOOT-
CANDLE AT WALKING SURFACE LEVEL. SEE LIGHTING DRAWINGS.
13. AUTOMATIC EMERGENCY POWER SHALL BE PROVIDED TO MEANS OF 
EGRESS ILLUMINATION FOR NOT LESS THAN 90 MINUTES PER 2022 
CBC 1008.3.4. SEE LIGHTING DRAWINGS.
NOTES - ACCESSIBILITY
RECEPTION
101
WORKROOM
104
CLASSROOM 6
106
CLASSROOM 1
108
CLASSROOM 2
109
CLASSROOM 3
111
CLASSROOM 4
112
CLASSROOM 5
114
SICK AREA
101A
OFFICE
102
119
TRASH
ENCLOSURE
WC
113
WC
110
WC
107
WC
103
IT / STORAGE
115
123
OUTDOOR
AREA
122
OUTDOOR
AREA
121
OUTDOOR
AREA
PLAY YARD
120
105
ROOF
ACCESS
BREAKOUT RM
117
WC
116
FIRE RISER
106A
PUBLIC WAY
B
B
B
B
B
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
ROOM NAME
ROOM NAME
101
ROOM NUMBER
LEGEND
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:07 PM
A11.00
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 61 ---
FD
FD
FD
FD
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
FD
FD
FD
1. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES RUNNING SLOPE NOT TO EXCEED 5% IN THE 
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL, AND CROSS SLOPE NOT TO EXCEED 2%, PER 
2022 CBC 11B-403.3; WHERE SLOPE EXCEEDS 5% PEDESTRIAN RAMPS 
SHALL BE PROVIDED AND SHALL COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 11B-405.
2. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES NOT TO HAVE ABRUPT CHANGE IN LEVEL, 
CHANGE IN LEVEL BETWEEN 1/4" AND 1/2" SHALL BE BEVELED WITH A 
SLOPE NOT STEEPER THAN 1:2, PER 2022 CBC 11B-303.3.
3. ACCESSIBLE ROUTES SHOULD PROVIDE CLEARANCE WIDTH OF 44" 
MIN WHEN SERVING ELEMENTS ON BOTH SIDES, PER 2022 CBC 
11B-403.5.
4. ALL SYMBOLS OF ACCESSIBILITY SHALL COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 
11B-703.7.
5. ALL ENTRANCES AND ALL EXTERIOR GROUND LEVEL EXITS SHALL 
COMPLY WITH 2022 CBC 11B-404.
6. ALL ENTRANCES AND ALL EXTERIOR GROUND LEVEL EXITS SHALL 
HAVE LEVEL LANDINGS ON EACH SIDE OF THE DOOR, WHICH SHALL 
NOT BE MORE THAN 1/2" LOWER THAN THE THRESHOLD OF THE 
DOORWAY PER 2022 CBC 11B-303.3.
7. PROVIDE TACTILE EXIT SIGNS PER 2022 CBC SEC 1013.4.
8. PROVIDE MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION PER 2022 CBC SEC. 1008. 
MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN 1 FOOT-
CANDLE AT WALKING SURFACE LEVEL. SEE LIGHTING DRAWINGS.
9. AUTOMATIC EMERGENCY POWER SHALL BE PROVIDED TO MEANS OF 
EGRESS ILLUMINATION FOR NOT LESS THAN 90 MINUTES PER 2022 
CBC 1008.3.4. SEE LIGHTING DRAWINGS.
NOTES - EGRESS PLANS
OCCUPANY LOAD
XXX
ROOM NAME
XXXX
SF
XXX
OCC
ROOM NAME
101
ROOM NUMBER
AREA AND NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
MEANS OF EGRESS, PATH OF TRAVEL
LEGEND
EXIT CUMULATIVE OCCUPANY LOAD
XXX
356 SF
3 OCC
RECEPTION
101
199 SF
2 OCC
WORKROOM
104
731 SF 21 OCC
CLASSROOM
6
106
630 SF 18 OCC
CLASSROOM
1
108
631 SF 19 OCC
CLASSROOM
2
109
630 SF 18 OCC
CLASSROOM
3
111
632 SF 19 OCC
CLASSROOM
4
112
633 SF 19 OCC
CLASSROOM
5
114
35 SF
1 OCC
SICK AREA
101A
72 SF
1 OCC
OFFICE
102
106 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
ENCLOSURE
119
WC
113
WC
110
WC
107
WC
103
9
102 SF
1 OCC
IT / STORAGE
115
9
9
10
1
9
9
10
11
9
10
9
10
1
2
1
1
3
6
104
25
7
7
5
3685 SF 50 OCC
PLAY YARD
120
501 SF
7 OCC
OUTDOOR
AREA
123
464 SF
7 OCC
OUTDOOR
AREA
122
332 SF
5 OCC
OUTDOOR
AREA
121
197 OCCUPANTS X 0.15 = 
29.55" REQUIRED EXIT WIDTH; 
48" PROVIDED
104 OCCUPANTS X 0.15 = 
15.6" REQUIRED DOOR  WIDTH; 
38" MIN PROVIDED
86 OCCUPANTS X 0.15 = 
12.9" REQUIRED DOOR  WIDTH; 
76" MIN PROVIDED
1
13 SF
1 OCC
ROOF
ACCESS
105
86
4
108 SF
4 OCC
BREAKOUT
RM
117
WC
116
FIRE RISER
106A
1
25
197
4' - 0"
B
B
B
B
B
PUBLIC WAY
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:08 PM
A11.01
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EGRESS
SITE PLAN,
OCCUPANCY LOAD
CALCULATIONS
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
Room
No.
Room Name
Function of Space
Area
GROSS/NET
Occupant Load
Factor
Number of
Occupants
FIRST FLOOR
101
RECEPTION
BUSINESS AREAS
356 SF
GROSS
150
3
101A
SICK AREA
BUSINESS AREAS
35 SF
GROSS
150
1
102
OFFICE
BUSINESS AREAS
72 SF
GROSS
150
1
103
WC
(none)
54 SF
104
WORKROOM
BUSINESS AREAS
199 SF
GROSS
150
2
105
ROOF ACCESS
ACCESSORY (STORAGE AREAS, MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ROOM)
13 SF
GROSS
300
1
106
CLASSROOM 6
DAY CARE
731 SF
NET
35
21
106A
FIRE RISER
(none)
9 SF
0
0
107
WC
(none)
138 SF
108
CLASSROOM 1
DAY CARE
630 SF
NET
35
18
109
CLASSROOM 2
DAY CARE
631 SF
NET
35
19
110
WC
(none)
111 SF
111
CLASSROOM 3
DAY CARE
630 SF
NET
35
18
112
CLASSROOM 4
DAY CARE
632 SF
NET
35
19
113
WC
(none)
111 SF
114
CLASSROOM 5
DAY CARE
633 SF
NET
35
19
115
IT / STORAGE
ACCESSORY (STORAGE AREAS, MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ROOM)
102 SF
GROSS
300
1
116
WC
(none)
65 SF
117
BREAKOUT RM
DAY CARE
108 SF
NET
35
4
119
TRASH ENCLOSURE
ACCESSORY (STORAGE AREAS, MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ROOM)
106 SF
GROSS
300
1
120
PLAY YARD
(none)
3685 SF
75
50
121
OUTDOOR AREA
(none)
332 SF
75
5
122
OUTDOOR AREA
(none)
464 SF
75
7
123
OUTDOOR AREA
(none)
501 SF
75
7
ROOF RIDGE
201
MECHANICAL WELL
(none)
253 SF
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
EGRESS PLAN
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 62 ---
FD
FD
FD
631 SF
CLASSROOM 2
109
630 SF
CLASSROOM 3
111
630 SF
CLASSROOM 1
108
731 SF
CLASSROOM 6
106
632 SF
CLASSROOM 4
112
633 SF
CLASSROOM 5
114
WC
113
WC
110
WC
107
WC
103
SICK AREA
101A
356 SF
RECEPTION
101
72 SF
OFFICE
102
199 SF
WORKROOM
104
TRASH ENCLOSURE
119
102 SF
IT / STORAGE
115
PLAY YARD
120
123
OUTDOOR
AREA
122
OUTDOOR
AREA
121
OUTDOOR
AREA
SINK BUBBLER 
(TYP OF 6)
ROOF ACCESS
105
WC
116
108 SF
BREAKOUT RM
117
FIRE RISER
106A
MINIMUM PLUMBING FIXTURES
E
TOTAL REQUIRED
TOTAL PROVIDED
1:50
2
4
1:30
2
5
1:100
1
0*
> 150
1
8**
1
1
(Total E Occupancy 119)/2 => 60 female & 60 male
WATER CLOSET
male
WATER CLOSET
female
URINAL
LAVATORY
male
LAVATORY
female
DRINKING 
FOUNTAIN
SERIVICE SINK OR 
LAUNDRY TRAY
TYPE OF OCCUPANCY
(Table 422.1)
1:40
2
7
1:40
2
7
1. PLUMBING OCCUPANCY CALCULATED PER 2022 CPC OCCUPANT LOAD 
FACTOR TABLE 4-1.
2. TOTAL FIXTURES REQUIRED CALCULATED PER 2022 CPC TABLE 422.1.
NOTES - PLUMBING 
FIXTURE CALCULATIONS
0
4'
8'
16'
4'
8'
16'
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
10/29/2025 12:50:08 PM
A11.02
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
PLUMBING FIXTURE
CALCULATIONS AND
FLOOR PLANS
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
PLUMBING FIXTURE TABULATION BY ROOM NUMBER
Room
Plumbing Occupancy
Room Calcs
Plumbing
Occupants
Number
Name
Classification
Group
Area
Occupant Load
Factor
FIRST FLOOR
101
RECEPTION
Business
B
356
150
2.38
101A
SICK AREA
Accessory
35
102
OFFICE
Business
B
72
150
0.48
103
WC
Accessory
54
104
WORKROOM
Business
B
199
150
1.33
105
ROOF ACCESS
Accessory
13
106
CLASSROOM 6
Daycare
E
731
35
20.89
106A
FIRE RISER
Accessory
9
107
WC
Accessory
138
108
CLASSROOM 1
Daycare
E
630
35
17.99
109
CLASSROOM 2
Daycare
E
631
35
18.03
110
WC
Accessory
111
111
CLASSROOM 3
Daycare
E
630
35
17.99
112
CLASSROOM 4
Daycare
E
632
35
18.06
113
WC
Accessory
111
114
CLASSROOM 5
Daycare
E
633
35
18.09
115
IT / STORAGE
Accessory
102
116
WC
Accessory
65
117
BREAKOUT RM
Daycare
E
108
35
3.07
119
TRASH ENCLOSURE
Accessory
106
120
PLAY YARD
Accessory
3685
121
OUTDOOR AREA
Accessory
332
122
OUTDOOR AREA
Accessory
464
123
OUTDOOR AREA
Accessory
501
124
OUTDOOR AREA
Accessory
5
ROOF RIDGE
201
MECHANICAL WELL
(none)
253
Grand total
118.33
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATION PLAN
NOTES:
* 1. PER TABLE 422.1 NOTE 3: THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS FOR FEMALES 
SHALL BE NOT LESS THAN THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS AND URINALS FOR 
MALES. THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL NOT APPLY WHEN SINGLE OCCUPANCY TOILET FACILITIES ARE 
PROVIDED FOR EACH SEX IN AN A OR E OCCUPANCY WITH AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF LESS THAN 50. 
A. THE REQUIRED URINAL SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BE OMITTED.
THE STAFF PLUMBING OCCUPANT LOAD USING THE TWO STAFF SINGLE OCCUPANCY 
       RESTROOMS IS 4.19 (ROUNDED TO 5 OCCUPANTS)ZA, 5<50. 
** 2. DRINKING WATER FOR STAFF PROVIDED BY WATER COOLER. 6 DECK-MOUNT BUBBLERS ON 
SINKS IN CLASSROOMS ARE PROVIDED FOR THE USE OF CHILDREN, ALONG WITH A HIGH-LOW 
DRINKING FOUNTAIN IN THE PLAY AREA.
3. CHILDCARE FACILITIES ARE LICENSED BY THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA. 
BASED ON TOTAL CAPACITY OF THE CHILDCARE FACILITY, THERE SHALL BE ONE WATER CLOSET 
AND ONE HANDWASHING FIXTURE MAINTAINED FOR EVERY 15 CHILDREN OR FRACTION THEREOF. 
FOR THE USE OF 75 PRESCHOOL CHILDREN:
5 WATER CLOSETS AND 5 HANDWASHING FIXTURES ARE REQUIRED. 
7 WATER CLOSETS AND 12 HANDWASHING FIXTURES ARE PROVIDED.
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B

--- page 63 ---
FEMA FLOOD NOTE TREE NOTE UTILITY NOTE

PROPERTY COMPLETELY OUT OF TREE SIZE, TYPE AND DRIPLINES ARE ALL UNDERGROUND PIPE TYPES, SIZES AND
BASED ON A VISUAL OBSERVATION. LOCATION SHOWN ON THIS SURVEY ARE BASED
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA) FINAL DETERMINATION SHOULD BE ON VISUAL OBSERVATION. ANY USE OF THIS
MADE BY THE PROJECT ARBORIST. INFORMATION SHOULD BE VERIFIED, BEFORE ITS
OOS Nas eonsor USE, WITH THE CONTROLLING MUNICIPALITY OR 2
RIM=67.75 , NOTES GUARANTEE OF THE INSTALLED ACTUAL =o u

INV=62.95 LOCATION, DEPTHS OR SIZE. co Ww ei 2

ie)

EASEMENT NOTE ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE IN = is o| = co

EASEMENT NOTE FEET AND DECIMALS. oe aula

HAZnN=

EASEMENTS ARE SHOWN PER CONDITION OF BENCHMARK Wi, 4s632
a TITLE GUARANTEE ISSUED BY WFG NATIONAL BUILDING FOOTPRINTS ARE SHOWN TO ZZ suss7 2
0 Hee NSURSNGE COMPANY FINISHED MATERIAL (STUCCO/SIDING). CITY OF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK =< YSuzz 0
_ BM 070-001 SS: )
ORE ay 1B oGon FINISH FLOOR ELEVATIONS ARE TAKEN RAMSET NAIL AND WASHER AT TOP OF fi - Lu
68. d4Tc sae AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR). CURB S'LY CENTER ISLAND AT THE wi 2 <
INTERSECTION OF ALAMEDA DE LAS Nia z
VICINITY MAP THE AREA OF THE SURVEYED LOT IS PULGAS AND 29TH AVENUE. =u a
SCALE GROSS: ELEVATION = XX.XX' cs ul
26,380 SQUARE FEET / 0.604 ACRES. (ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM) me :

NET:
3
68.96 26,2234 SQUARE FEET / 0.60+ ACRES me :
68.56FL a

@ SITE BENCHMARK

SURVEY CONTROL POINT
MAG AND SHINER SET IN ASPHALT
ELEVATION = 72.71’
(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM)

LEGEND AND NOTES

——--—-————_ BOUNDARY LINE

2495 INDUSTRIAL PKWY WEST
HAYWARD, CALIFORNIA 94545

(510) 887-4086

Ll
oO
rm
ra
O
Zz
<x
=

CATV-—————_ CABLE _ TV OVERHEAD LINE fe)
00
ETC ELECTRICAL/TELEPHONE/ _ 9
CABLE TV OVERHEAD LINE ae aan S
— ————— ELECTRICAL OVERHEAD LINE ; a A it
T ————— TELEPHONE OVERHEAD LINE 7 ~\ = iS
TvV/T—————_ CABLE _TV/TELEPHONE OVERHEAD LINE a ‘\ —_ Z
ee gaEMENT LANDS OF JJAJ VENTURES ; AREA OF SURVEY an <
, 6.5’ WOOD > 26” REDWOOD #0344 APRIL 2025
xX ——————_ FENCE LINE 3° WOOD NEIGHBORING 89.80 N74°55'06" ‘ » 78.90 FENCE WOOD A © ‘ = Oo —
bee ececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees FLOW LINE FENCE =: ~— STRUCTURE RP SSO6E = 215.80 “ES RETAINING WALL !
. 64.8 Z ; ) ceo
SS —————_ SANITARY SEWER LINE w/t STONE S48 67.5 BAPPLEROSS+ Ghd 10"8” =r Z
ra BENCHMARK Poet FENCE BORDER, NEIGHBORING pt 5g OAK(+) a Jj —
BW BOTTOM RETAINING WALL 1 70.40FL WV /1 CHANGE FENCE ABIL 65.171W < = ©
Ors ELECTRICAL BOX A mn 70.59 ———— Se 38-6 7BW Y =
Oem ELECTRICAL METER MIMOSA! = STONE/PAVED PATH , Lali e'Stumeyn coor) Z 4
20 * X70.56 SYA) eee | <—
FF FINISH FLOOR Lf \ 70.2, : : | , <j <
or ee I cope a R— 1€ RWD #008 on TN) O
% FIRE HYDRANT . RY Vega . PP HL —
° . = .
FL FLOW LINE 66.96 / Kok | ae) >
Ocm GAS METER aasaele at an | [- 1 ANRwo xo0s oe S
INV INVERT O \ 86.33 \ a 7 =) ©
DX icy IRRIGATION CONTROL VALVE | 9”RWmagytO10 Ow ir
ce)
JMAP JAPANESE MAPLE © 65.341W 5S
58.44BW
fe) JOINT POLE oe z
M— MULTI-TRUNK TREE . LANDS, OF THE JASON " . S15'2920°E = 116.95 v3
HOUSE co * “AND ‘“ROSALINDA CRUZ * , « >.
O mB MAIL BOX 72.21 xa] 72.35 yO onan wy aceueae YY! \__-R NEIGHBORING
72.38 29/7? | » » » PAMILY FRUSP + » “& : STRUCTURE
71.93. FF DECK /7o. | ||GROSS: 26,380 SORT. 0.60 A LANDS OF PARISH a
RP ROOF PEAK 51.95 W804 72.34 || NET: _ 26,223 GO.FT. 0,60 AC ea
: RP DECK Al my it le ate SCHOOL JUSRIDICTION
| - 71.41% — RP av FF l . 6746 ~ » vy v WBS vv iy & 33" SH’ RWD#4011
OssMmH SANITARY SEWER MAINTENANCE HOLE Pare ee) pa. 2 TYP. |k f\\" FF a mma Soate Y YoY YY Y 685A aw
Pe ON. 71.50 70 BOL AR 72.5 ; ss X ; Hill 6 CRAWLSPACE, PARCEL 1’ » 2
O spMH STORM DRAIN MAINTENANCE HOLE -. EASEMENT FOR INGRESS/EGRESS, Y : a IPS avin vvf J ' _
1c TOP OF CURB ~°\ GAS. AND WATER BINES) 0 \ soar le = | HITT “This a
(BOOK 2637 PAGE 680) | (2) EM SAY ILA Lap A Lp hz2.22| a | 23" RWO #012
TOS TOP OF SLAB SIN Se 70.81) __\=crIMN aOR 1 MP 69.37/72.18/ \ 68.37 —_— i Z C)
TW TOP OF RETAINING WALL PPE No OE ER F18”PEPPER 70.4 Typ, ‘| 636 cael OS  MBAE Walaa 3 3a CBM r~
Own WATER METER te | oN #028 “ 6S  FREW 68.8) __ POST, WOOD STEP, -
7 | FIREWOOD 71.01 N : . al 58.46
DX wv WATER VALVE 5 Ko Be eS ’ 46”9”RWD #014 al
XXX.XX SPOTGRADE =. cee 8 Ne ony = | / <—
ae \ APRIL, 2025 “T~ pm SHIPPING CONTAINER y
ASPHALT Oo  gearte —— r =, -____-- EY 60.731W =
a, oN oo /OTIT -69-42TW _ 1: - -—_—-" - = = or ;
od CONCRETE CURB \ a8 eFC TOW BW — ~ 88.0/_ = ea - TOP OFgBAN 65.9 J os a yj 98.25BW
“ AND GUTTER Ce ET "_ _70.59BW- 2°: o> SN 290K #025 T7OAK #024 P’OAK #023. — O
ar 72.22. SS ot 5599 — LN WOES _ @~ 60 Sx 5° WIRE FENCE
a. CONCRETE wo Serif one tren = TOE OF BANK Oe 57.8 ae
: a 4q ~ ‘ ‘A ’ ~“N _ {AA =—- —_—
4 a : ~ RIM=76.23 | —_ = on oS -_— ’ ” = ’ T 27" STUN = ©
DECOMPOSED GRANITE 143] OO as See eae ere nf | \ 58.3).
- ——~ 16:95 0]. SS TTT Ns os TOP60.50
GRAVEL NEIGHBORING | BA PP EK ~ _ , 36°PIPE
mat orvewyl\ 2\ = = WAL BP Ro : RSME OSI oece =~ i
a . EDGE OF ~~] — ) ; ——— —108 ses “OAK F024 _ B°OAK FOtS-6g 57.4 iY
40 ~\ 20.00’ EMERGENCY ACCESS EASEMENT SA _, AREA OF SURVEY x © CONCRETE \ =
RISER (INST. 96-129246 OFFICIAL RECORDS) 16” 0AK 26° OAK #017. \— RETAINING JP
PAVERS TYP. L 4022 WALL ~~ 4-29-25
, \ LANDS OF CAREY SCHOOL 4
SSMH_ > / “QO
RIP RAP RIM=77. \ Ns. ,

‘“ AREA OF SURVEY Sy y DATE: 12-11-24
aren ;
\
WOOD \ 0 8 16 32

| | | | SHEET NO:
\ SCALE: 1” = 16’ SU

1 OF 1 SHEETS

STONE



--- page 64 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.00
GENERAL
NOTES AND
ABBREVIATIONS
GENERAL NOTES
ABBREVIATIONS
THESE ABBREVIATION ARE BASED ON STANDARD ABBREVIATIONS THAT ARE USED IN CONSTRUCTION. HOWEVER, ALL ABBREVIATION MUST BE REVIEWED IN
CONTEXT AND FINAL INTERPRETATION IS BY THE ARCHITECT.  NOT ALL ABBREVIATION THAT ARE LISTED ARE IN USED IN THE ATTACHED DOCUMENTS.
AB
AC
AD
ADA
APPROX
BC
BNDY
BEG
BF
BLDG
BM
BOW
BTA
BVC
BW
CL
CB
CIP
CJ
CLR
CO
CONC
CONT
CMU
CU FT
DB
DI
DIA
DIM
DWG
(E)/EX
EA
EC
EF
ELEV/EL
ELECT
EQ
EVC
EW
EXP/EJ
FFE
FG
FH
FL
FS
G
GAL
GALV
GB
GM
GND
HB
HORIZ
IE
JT
LWF
LOL
LOW
ME
MH
MAINT
MAX
MIN
MISC
MON
AGGREGATE BASE
ASPHALT CONCRETE
AREA DRAIN
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
APPROXIMATE
BEGIN CURVE/BOTTOM OF CURB
BOUNDARY
BEGIN
BOTTOM FACE
BUILDING
BENCH MARK
BACK OF WALK
BIORETENTION TREATMENT AREA
BEGIN VERTICAL CURVE
BOTTOM OF WALL
CENTER LINE
CATCH BASIN
CAST IN PLACE
CONTROL JOINT
CLEAR
CLEANOUT
CONCRETE
CONTINUOUS
CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
CUBIC FEET
DRAIN BASIN
DRAINAGE INLET
DIAMETER
DIMENSION
DRAWING
EXISTING
EACH
END OF CURVE
EACH FACE
ELEVATION
ELECTRICAL
EQUAL
END OF VERTICAL CURVE
EACH WAY
EXPANSION JOINT
FINISHED FLOOR
FINISH GRADE (LANDSCAPE)
FIRE HYDRANT
FLOW LINE
FINISH SURFACE
GAS
GALLON
GALVANIZED
GRADE BREAK
GAS METER
GROUND
HOSE BIB
HORIZONTAL
INVERT
JOINT
LIGHTWEIGHT FILL
LAYOUT LINE
LIMIT OF WORK
MATCH EXISTING (ELEVATION)
MANHOLE
MAINTENANCE
MAXIMUM
MINIMUM
MISCELLANEOUS
MONUMENT.
(N)
N
NOS
NTS
OC
OH
PA
PI
POC
POT
PP
PSI
PT
PTDF
PERM
PERF
PVC
QC
RAD/R
RCB
RCP
RIM
REINF
R.R.
RT
ROW
SCD
SCH
SD
SED
SHT.
SID
SIM
SQ
SS
SSMH
STA
STD
STL
S/W
SSCO
TB
TBD
TC
TF
TEMP
TOF
TOR
TOS
TTL
TOW/TW
TYP
TP
UNO
V/VERT
VB
VC
VIF
W/
W/O
WC
WM
WMH
WP
WPJ
NEW
NORTH
NUMBERS
NOT TO SCALE
ON CENTER
OVERHEAD
PLANTING AREA
POINT OF INTERSECTION
POINT OF CONNECTION
POINT ON TANGENT
POWER POLE
POUNDS PER SQUARE INCH
POINT
PRESSURE-TREATED DOUG FIR
PERMANENT
PERFORATED
POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE
QUICK COUPLER
RADIUS
REINFORCED CONCRETE BOX
REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE
RIM ELEVATION/TOP OF GRATE
REINFORCING
RAILROAD
RIGHT
RIGHT-OF-WAY
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
SCHEDULE
STORM DRAIN
SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
SHEET
SEE IRRIGATION DRAWINGS
SIMILAR
SQUARE
SANITARY SEWER OR STAINLESS STEEL
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
STATION POINT
STANDARD
STEEL
SIDEWALK
SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
TOP OF BENCH
TO BE DETERMINED
TOP OF CURB
TOP FOOTING
TEMPORARY
TOP OF FOOTING
TOP OF RAMP
TOP OF SLAB
TOTAL
TOP OF WALL
TYPICAL
TELEPHONE POLE
UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE
VERTICAL
VALVE BOX
VERTICAL CURVE
VERIFY IN FIELD
WITH
WITHOUT
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE
WATER METER
WATER MANHOLE
WORK POINT
WEAKENED PLANE JOINT
CODES AND REGULATIONS
ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM TO ALL APPLICABLE CODES AND REGULATIONS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
·
CURRENT CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC)
·
CURRENT CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE (CEC)
·
CURRENT CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CMC)
·
CURRENT CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE (CPC)
·
CURRENT CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS (TITLE 8)
·
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO BUILDING DEPARTMENT REQUIREMENTS
·
CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
·
CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS
·
AIR QUALITY MAINTENANCE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
1.
ALL SITE WORK SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH TITLE 24 OF THE CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE, CURRENT CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE, THE
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA), THE 2010 ADA ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE DESIGN, THE CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC
WORKS CODE, THE CITY OF PALO ALTO CURB RAMP STANDARDS, DPW ORDERS (TO BE PROVIDED).
2.
ALL PAVED AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITEM 1. ACCESSIBLE PATHS OF TRAVEL ARE A BARRIER-FREE ACCESS ROUTE
WITHOUT ANY LEVEL CHANGES EXCEEDING 1/16" BETWEEN SIDEWALK PANELS ACROSS CONTROL AND EXPANSION JOINTS. SURFACES AT THE TOP
AND BOTTOM OF RAMPS AND CURB RAMPS SHALL BE FLUSH WITH NO LEVEL CHANGE ALLOWED. CHANGES IN LEVEL BETWEEN ADJACENT PAVERS
AND BETWEEN PAVERS AND ADJACENT SURFACES SHALL NOT EXCEED 1/16". WALKING SURFACES SHALL BE STABLE, FIRM AND SLIP-RESISTANT.
CROSS SLOPE SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% AND SLOPE IN THE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL SHALL BE LESS THAN 5%, ALL ACCESSIBLE PATHS OF TRAVEL SHALL
BE MAINTAINED FREE OF OVERHANGING OBSTRUCTIONS TO 80" MINIMUM, AND PROTRUDING OBJECTS GREATER THAN 4" PROJECTION FROM WALL
AND ABOVE 27" AND LESS THAN 80". THE OWNER'S CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY THAT THERE ARE NO BARRIERS IN THE PATH OF TRAVEL.
3.
WHEN NECESSARY TEMPORARY PEDESTRIAN PATHS OF TRAVEL SHALL BE PROVIDED AND MAINTAINED IN AN ACCESSIBLE CONDITION, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ITEM 1. RAMPS ARE DEFINED AS ANY WALKWAY BETWEEN SLOPES OF 1:20 (5%) AND 1:12 (8.33%). RAMPS SHALL NOT EXCEED 1:12
(8.33%). ALL RAMPS SHALL HAVE A RAILING AND GUIDE RAIL PER PLANS AND DETAILS. RAMPS EXCEEDING 2'-6” VERTICAL SHALL HAVE INTERMEDIATE
(2% MAXIMUM SLOPE) LANDINGS HAVING A MINIMUM LENGTH IN THE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL OF 60”. BOTTOM LANDINGS AT CHANGES IN RAMP
DIRECTION SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM LENGTH OF 72”. NO RAILINGS REQUIRED AT CURB RAMPS.
4.
A LEVEL LANDING SHALL BE PROVIDED AT THE TOP AND BOTTOM OF ALL STAIRS, AT THE TOP OF ALL CURB RAMPS AND AT EACH SIDE OF
ACCESSIBLE GROUND LEVEL ENTRANCES AND EXITS AT BUILDINGS, OTHER FACILITIES AND ADJACENT SITES. LEVEL LANDINGS SHALL HAVE A
POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM THE PROPERTY LINE AND SHALL SLOPE BETWEEN 0.5% TO 2%.
QUALITY CONTROL NOTES
1.
CONTRACTOR TO SUBMIT A SUMMARY OF LANDSCAPE SUBMITTALS NECESSARY FOR LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED SCOPE ITEMS
FOR APPROVAL. BASED ON THE APPROVED LIST OF PROJECT LANDSCAPE SUBMITTALS, CONTRACTOR IS TO SUBMIT ALL NECESSARY
DOCUMENTATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
2.
ALL SHOP DRAWINGS REQUIRED AS PART OF LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS SHALL BE COORDINATED WITH ALL ASSOCIATED DISCIPLINES, SITE AND
ARCHITECTURAL CONDITIONS. DRAWINGS SHALL SHOW ADJACENT INFORMATION THAT WILL GIVE CLEAR INDICATION OF THE INTERFACE TO
STRUCTURES, FOUNDATIONS, UTILITIES, PROPERTY LINES AND EASEMENTS, AND ANY OTHER NECESSARY INFORMATION.
LEGEND - OVERALL
000.00
SPOTS / ELEVATIONS
FS 52.75
FG 12.05
1
1
1
1
SYMBOLS
AREA
DETAIL CALLOUTS - PLAN VIEW
LEADER
SLOPE
ViewNumber
SheetNumber
ViewNumber
SheetNumber
ViewNumber
SheetNumber
ViewNumber
SheetNumber
ViewNumber
SheetNumber
LINETYPES
CENTERLINE
EXPANSION JOINT
CL
LIMIT OF WORK
ITEM TAGS
PXX
L1-1a
FXX
L1-A1
P1-01
1.
ENTERING INTO THIS CONTRACT INDICATES THAT THE CONTRACTOR HAS VISITED THE SITE, IS FAMILIAR WITH THE EXISTING CONDITIONS AND REVIEWED
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
2.
THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CHECKING ALL CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND FIELD CONDITIONS, AND FOR CONFIRMING THAT THE WORK IS
BUILDABLE AS SHOWN BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK. THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR OBTAINING CLARIFICATION FROM THE OWNER'S
REPRESENTATIVE BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK IN QUESTION OR RELATED WORK.
3.
THE DOCUMENTS DESCRIBE DESIGN INTENT. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING COMPLETE, OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS AND INSTALLATIONS.
ALL MATERIALS SHALL BE FURNISHED AND INSTALLED BY THE CONTRACTOR UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
4.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH WORK. WRITTEN DIMENSIONS SHALL GOVERN.
5.
ALL DIMENSIONAL NOTES AND DETAILS SHOWING A PORTION OF A DRAWING SHALL APPLY TYPICALLY TO ALL OPPOSITE HAND AND/OR SIMILAR
CONDITIONS, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
6.
DIMENSIONS INDICATED ON PLANS FOR HORIZONTAL CONTROL ARE ACCURATE IF MEASURED ON A LEVEL LINE. MEASURE HORIZONTAL CONTROL
DIMENSIONS ON A LEVEL LINE, NOT PARALLEL WITH GROUND SLOPE.
7.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY EXISTING FACILITIES IN THE FIELD, WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE SHOWN IN THE DRAWINGS.
8.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE OWNER IN WRITING OF CONFLICTS BETWEEN DRAWINGS AND FIELD CONDITIONS PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH
WORK IN QUESTION.
9.
THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR WORKING AROUND AND PROTECTING ALL EXISTING FACILITIES ADJACENT TO THE WORK AREA. THESE
FACILITIES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING: HARDSCAPE, TREES, LANDSCAPING, HYDRANTS AND UTILITY POLES.
10.
PROTECT EXISTING FEATURES AND UTILITIES TO REMAIN WITHIN AND ADJACENT TO PROJECT SITE DURING CONSTRUCTION UNTIL FINAL COMPLETION. IF
LIVE UTILITIES ARE ENCOUNTERED WHICH WERE NOT INDICATED PREVIOUSLY, PROTECT THE SAME FROM DAMAGE AND IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE
OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE AND AFFECTED UTILITY PROVIDER. DO NOT PROCEED UNTIL FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS ARE RECEIVED FROM OWNER'S
REPRESENTATIVE.
11.
CONFORM LINE SHALL BE FIVE (5) FEET BEYOND THE EXTENDED PROPERTY LINE UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS OR AS DIRECTED
BY THE OWNER.
12.
ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES SHALL BE PERFORMED IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO COMPLY WITH THE STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE AIR QUALITY
MAINTENANCE DISTRICT FOR AIRBORNE PARTICULATE (DUST).
13.
AT THE COMPLETION OF WORK THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE ALL MARKS, STAINS AND BLEMISHES RESULTING FROM CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS
THROUGHOUT THE CONTRACT.
14.
REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL NOTES AND INFORMATION RELATED TO EXISTING AND PROPOSED UTILITIES INCLUDING LOCATION OF EXISTING
UTILITIES PRIOR TO ANY SITE DEMOLITION OR CLEARING OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY SITE GRADING OR TRENCHING OPERATIONS.
15.
REFER TO STRUCTURAL AND ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL NOTES AND INFORMATION REGARDING BUILDING EXCAVATIONS.
16.
THE EXISTING MATERIALS AND CONDITIONS SHOWN ON THESE DRAWINGS ARE ASSUMED TO BE ACCURATE BASED ON AVAILABLE INFORMATION AND
HAVE NOT BEEN VERIFIED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION IS FROM TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS PROVIDED BY LEA AND
BRAZE ENGINEERING, INC. DATED 12-11-2024.
17.
THESE DOCUMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO MODIFICATIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION SHOULD CONDITIONS ARISE THAT WERE NOT APPARENT DURING THEIR
PREPARATION. ANY SUCH MODIFICATIONS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR ACCEPTANCE.
18.
DURING CONSTRUCTION, THE RIPARIAN TREES AND THE SENSITIVE AREAS BELOW TOB SHALL BE PROTECTED WITH APPROPRIATE BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES (BMPS), WHICH MAY INCLUDE FIBER ROLLS AND ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA FENCING - VIF.
SHEET LIST
SHEET NUMBER
L0.00
GENERAL NOTES AND ABBREVIATIONS
L0.02
TREE REPORT
L0.03
TREE REPORT
L0.10A
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN (EXISTING)
L0.10B
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN (PROPOSED)
L0.11
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN
L0.12
TREE PROTECTION DETAILS
L1.00
MATERIAL PLANS
L1.10
MATERIAL IMAGES
L3.00
IRRIGATION PLAN
L4.00
PLANTING PLAN
L4.10
PLANTING IMAGES
L4.11
WELO FORMS
L5.00
SECTIONS AND ELEVATIONS
L5.10
SECTIONS AND ELEVATIONS CONT'D
SHEET TITILE
L1.01
MATERIAL NOTES AND SCHEDULE
L5.20
ENTITLEMENT DIAGRAMS
L4.01
PLANTING NOTES AND SCHEDULE
B

--- page 65 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.02
TREE REPORT
ARBORIST  REPORT - HORTSCIENCE - BARTLETT TREE EXPERT COMPANY
B

--- page 66 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.03
TREE REPORT
TREE ASSESSMENT
TREE DISPOSISTION AND ESTIMATE OF VALUE
LU EVALUATION SCHEDULE
TREE ASSESSMENT MAP
TREE ASSESSMENT
TREE DISPOSISTION AND ESTIMATE OF VALUE
B

--- page 67 ---
8'-0"
6'-0"
7'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
7'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
19'-0"
3'-0"
EXISTING TREES TO BE
REMOVED
EXISTING TREES TO
REMAIN AND BE
PROTECTED
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - HIGH
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - MODERATE
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - LOW
EXISTING TREE KEY
PROPOSED TREE
PROTECTION ZONE
*
TO BE APPROVED
BY PROJECT AND
CITY ARBORIST
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (PER
ARBORIST REPORT) 3XDBH
CALCULATED TREE
PROTECTION ZONE  (PER
ARBORIST REPORT)
10XDBH
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.10A
TREE REMOVAL AND
PROTECTION PLAN
(EXISTING)
SCALE: 1"=10'-0"
1
TREE PROTECTION + REMOVAL PLAN -EXISTING
B

--- page 68 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
8'-0"
6'-0"
7'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
7'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
19'-0"
3'-0"
EXISTING TREES TO BE
REMOVED
EXISTING TREES TO
REMAIN AND BE
PROTECTED
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - HIGH
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - MODERATE
TREE SUITABILITY FOR
RETENTION - LOW
EXISTING TREE KEY
PROPOSED TREE
PROTECTION ZONE
*
TO BE APPROVED
BY PROJECT AND
CITY ARBORIST
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (PER
ARBORIST REPORT) 3XDBH
CALCULATED TREE
PROTECTION ZONE  (PER
ARBORIST REPORT)
10XDBH
#25
DEAD TREE TO REMAIN
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.10B
TREE REMOVAL AND
PROTECTION PLAN
(PROPOSED)
SCALE: 1"=10'-0"
1
TREE PROTECTION + REMOVAL PLAN -PROPOSED 
B

--- page 69 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.11
TREE REPLACEMENT
PLAN
SCALE: 1"=10'-0"
1
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN
NEW TREES BEING PLANTED
QUANTITY
SIZE
LU VALUE
TOTAL LU
VALUE
0
15 GALLON
1
0
17
24" BOX
2
34
12
36" BOX
3
36
0
48" BOX
4
0
TOTAL
70
LEGEND
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
PROPOSED TREE
EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN
NOTE: SEE SHEET L4.00 FOR SPECIES
AND LOCATIONS OF VARIOUS TREE
SIZES
B

--- page 70 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L0.12
TREE
PROTECTION
DETAILS
CITY OF SAN MATEO TREE PROTECTION NOTES
B

--- page 71 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
#27
#23
#24
#25
#19
#18
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
P1a
P1a
P1a
P1a
P1a
P1a
P1b
P1b
P1b
P2
P3
P4
P4
P5
P5
P6
P6
P7
S1
S2
S3
TYP
TYP
S4a
S4b
S4b
S5b
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
TYP
S11
TYP
S13
S15
S16
TYP
TYP
S17
S18
S19
TYP
2
L5.00
1
L5.00
6'-0"
6" TALL CONCRETE
CURB,TYP
VIEW TRIANGLE, TYP. NO
PLANTS TALLER THAN 3' IN
THIS ZONE- REFER TO
PLANTING SCHEDULE FOR
MATURE PLANT HEIGHTS
EXISTING CHAIN LINK
FENCE TO REMAIN
P5
TRANSFORMER
PUBLIC WORKS
ACCESS GATE TO
CREEK BED
S14
S20
P1a
FOR EDIBLE PLANTS, TO
BE HAND WATERED
Scale:
----
XX
1/2" = 1'-0"
TYP
S20
TYP
PUBLIC WORKS ACCESS TO
CREEK BED, SAD
BIOTREATMENT AREA - SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIOTREATMENT AREA - SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
TYP
L-01
L-02
L-02
TYP
L-02
TYP
L-01
S5a
S12
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L1.00
MATERIAL PLANS
0
8'
16'
N
1'
1/8"  =  1'-0"
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
PAVING
STRING LIGHTS AT GROVE
POLE LIGHTS
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
SITE ELEMENTS
SITE ELEMENTS  CONT.
P1a
STANDARD CONCRETE PAVING - PEDESTRIAN
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE, TOOLED CONTROL JOINTS AT 3'
INTERVALS. EXPANSION JOINTS AT MINIMUM 12'-15'. COLOR:
NATURAL GRAY, FINISH: TOP CAST #03
P1b
CONCRETE PAVING - VEHICULAR
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE, TOOLED CONTROL JOINTS AT 3'
INTERVALS. EXPANSION JOINTS AT MINIMUM 12'-15'. COLOR:
NATURAL GRAY, FINISH: TOP CAST #03
P2
ASPHALT PAVING - VEHICULAR
VEHICULAR ASPHALT PAVING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
P3
RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING
SYNLAWN PLAY PLATINUM WITH PLAY CUSHIONING OVER
AGGREGATES. MANUFACTUER: SYNLAWN.
P4
RESIN PAVING
RESIN BOUND 1/4" AGGREGATE PAVING BY ROCKPAVE
P5
MULCH
PLANTING MULCH, SEE SPECIFICATIONS
P6
TRUNCATED DOME PAVERS
STEPSTONE PRECAST CONCRETE TRUNCATED DOME PAVERS.
36X24. COLOR: YELLOW 514
P7
PLAY SAND
OLYMPIC 1&2 SAND BLEND, 10" DEEP, CLEAN AND WASHED PLAY
SAND
S1
BICYCLE RACKS
BIKE PARKING WELLE CIRCULAR RACK. IN-GROUND MOUNT. 2"
SQUARE STAINLESS STEEL.
S2
BICYCLE LOCKER
BIKELINK RECTANGULAR SINGULAR eLOCKER.
S3
WHEEL STOPS
PRECAST CONCRETE CARE WHEEL STOP 4' LONG. AMERICAN
PRECAST CONCRETE. TWO #3 REBAR TIED, TWO #5X10" PINS.
S4a
FENCE & GATE TYPE 1 - WOOD
6'-0"  TALL WESTERN RED CEDAR (WRC) FENCE. 2x2 PAINTED STEEL
POST.  2X6 WRC GRADE A CAP RAIL. WITH CONCRETE FOOTING PER
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT
S4b
FENCE & GATE TYPE 1 - WOOD ON RETAINING WALL
7'-2" TALL FENCE TO MATCH S4a. POST MOUNTED ON 8" WIDE
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE RETAINING WALL.SEE STRUCTURAL
DRAWINGS
S5a
FENCE TYPE 2 - METAL
6' TALL 9 GUAGE VINYL COATED (PVC) COMMERCIAL CHAIN LINK
FENCE FABRIC IN 1" MESH. COLOR: BLACK. KNUCKLED ENDS.
S5b
FENCE TYPE 2 - METAL ON RETAINING WALL
FENCE TYPE S5a. POST MOUNTED ON RETAINING WALL. SEE
STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
S6
PLAY STRUCTURE
TIMBER FORM - COLUMBIA CASCADE COMPANY.
WWW. TIMBERFORM.COM  DRAWING NO.  P-25027-B-AUX
S7
SAND BOX
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE WALL WITH REINFORCING AND FOOTING.
SMOOTH TROWEL FINISH. 10" TALL, 6" WIDTH.  18" WIDE AT
TRANSFER STATION.
S8
RAISED VEGGIE PLANTERS
OLLE PLANTER BEDS. CORRUGATED GALVANIZED 17" TALL. OPEN
BOTTOM. CONFIGURATION 5 64"X40": COLOR: BARN RED.
S9
EV CHARGER
FREESTANDING ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGER.
S10
GROVE CHAIRS
MAGLIN. 720 CHAIRS. THERMALLY  MODIFIED ASH, METAL SIDE ARMS.
SURFACE MOUNT
S11
GROVE SIDE TABLE
MAGLIN. OGDEN TABLES. THERMALLY  MODIFIED ASH, METAL BASE.
SURFACE MOUNT
TABLES AND BENCHES
S12
COMMUNITY PLAY THINGS. OUTLAST PROJECT TABLE SET WITH
OUTLAST SEAT. PRESCHOOL SIZE.
S15
ACCESSIBLE TRANSFER BAR
1.5" DIAMETER GALVANIZED GRAB BAR SURFACE MOUNTED TO
CONCRETE WALL OF SAND BOX
S16
CONCRETE CURB AT PARKING LOT
6" CIP CONCRETE CURB WITH REINFORCING
S17
W
DOMESTIC WATER VALVE BOX
FOR FUTURE OUTDOOR SINK.
S18
HOSE BIB ON POST WITH DISSIPATION PIT
4" X 4" SQ METAL POST PAINTED WITH SS HOSE BIB.  METAL HEADER
AND GRAVEL DISSIPATION PIT
TRASH ENCLOSURE
12'-2" X 6'-7" X 6' ENCLOSURE TO MATCH FENCE TYPE 1. WITH ROOF
S13
SITE LIGHTING
S19
METAL EDGE RESTRAINT
S20
L-01
L-02
1
L9.01
2
L5.10
1
L5.10
STAKED ALUMINUM LANDSCAPE EDGE RESTRAINT
SEE LIGHTING PLANS
SEE LIGHTING PLANS
S14
LOW FENCE ON RETAINING WALL
4' TALL 9 GUAGE VINYL COATED (PVC) COMMERCIAL CHAIN LINK
FENCE FABRIC IN 1" MESH. COLOR: BLACK. KNUCKLED ENDS.WITH
MAINTENANCE GATE. SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
2
L5.20
1
L5.20
3
L5.10
 BOLLARDS
36" HEIGHT, STAINLESS STEEL BOLLARD, LOW IMAPACT
4
L5.10
B

--- page 72 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L1.01
MATERIAL NOTES
AND SCHEDULE
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
PAVING
STRING LIGHTS AT GROVE
POLE LIGHTS
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
NAME
DETAIL
TAG
SITE ELEMENTS
SITE ELEMENTS  CONT.
P1a
STANDARD CONCRETE PAVING - PEDESTRIAN
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE, TOOLED CONTROL JOINTS AT 3'
INTERVALS. EXPANSION JOINTS AT MINIMUM 12'-15'. COLOR:
NATURAL GRAY, FINISH: TOP CAST #03
P1b
CONCRETE PAVING - VEHICULAR
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE, TOOLED CONTROL JOINTS AT 3'
INTERVALS. EXPANSION JOINTS AT MINIMUM 12'-15'. COLOR:
NATURAL GRAY, FINISH: TOP CAST #03
P2
ASPHALT PAVING - VEHICULAR
VEHICULAR ASPHALT PAVING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
P3
RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING
SYNLAWN PLAY PLATINUM WITH PLAY CUSHIONING OVER
AGGREGATES. MANUFACTUER: SYNLAWN.
P4
RESIN PAVING
RESIN BOUND 1/4" AGGREGATE PAVING BY ROCKPAVE
P5
MULCH
PLANTING MULCH, SEE SPECIFICATIONS
P6
TRUNCATED DOME PAVERS
STEPSTONE PRECAST CONCRETE TRUNCATED DOME PAVERS.
36X24. COLOR: YELLOW 514
P7
PLAY SAND
OLYMPIC 1&2 SAND BLEND, 10" DEEP, CLEAN AND WASHED PLAY
SAND
S1
BICYCLE RACKS
BIKE PARKING WELLE CIRCULAR RACK. IN-GROUND MOUNT. 2"
SQUARE STAINLESS STEEL.
S2
BICYCLE LOCKER
BIKELINK RECTANGULAR SINGULAR eLOCKER.
S3
WHEEL STOPS
PRECAST CONCRETE CARE WHEEL STOP 4' LONG. AMERICAN
PRECAST CONCRETE. TWO #3 REBAR TIED, TWO #5X10" PINS.
S4a
FENCE & GATE TYPE 1 - WOOD
6'-0"  TALL WESTERN RED CEDAR (WRC) FENCE. 2x2 PAINTED STEEL
POST.  2X6 WRC GRADE A CAP RAIL. WITH CONCRETE FOOTING PER
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT
S4b
FENCE & GATE TYPE 1 - WOOD ON RETAINING WALL
7'-2" TALL FENCE TO MATCH S4a. POST MOUNTED ON 8" WIDE
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE RETAINING WALL.SEE STRUCTURAL
DRAWINGS
S5a
FENCE TYPE 2 - METAL
6' TALL 9 GUAGE VINYL COATED (PVC) COMMERCIAL CHAIN LINK
FENCE FABRIC IN 1" MESH. COLOR: BLACK. KNUCKLED ENDS.
S5b
FENCE TYPE 2 - METAL ON RETAINING WALL
FENCE TYPE S5a. POST MOUNTED ON RETAINING WALL. SEE
STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
S6
PLAY STRUCTURE
TIMBER FORM - COLUMBIA CASCADE COMPANY.
WWW. TIMBERFORM.COM  DRAWING NO.  P-25027-B-AUX
S7
SAND BOX
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE WALL WITH REINFORCING AND FOOTING.
SMOOTH TROWEL FINISH. 10" TALL, 6" WIDTH.  18" WIDE AT
TRANSFER STATION.
S8
RAISED VEGGIE PLANTERS
OLLE PLANTER BEDS. CORRUGATED GALVANIZED 17" TALL. OPEN
BOTTOM. CONFIGURATION 5 64"X40": COLOR: BARN RED.
S9
EV CHARGER
FREESTANDING ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGER.
S10
GROVE CHAIRS
MAGLIN. 720 CHAIRS. THERMALLY  MODIFIED ASH, METAL SIDE ARMS.
SURFACE MOUNT
S11
GROVE SIDE TABLE
MAGLIN. OGDEN TABLES. THERMALLY  MODIFIED ASH, METAL BASE.
SURFACE MOUNT
TABLES AND BENCHES
S12
COMMUNITY PLAY THINGS. OUTLAST PROJECT TABLE SET WITH
OUTLAST SEAT. PRESCHOOL SIZE.
S15
ACCESSIBLE TRANSFER BAR
1.5" DIAMETER GALVANIZED GRAB BAR SURFACE MOUNTED TO
CONCRETE WALL OF SAND BOX
S16
CONCRETE CURB AT PARKING LOT
6" CIP CONCRETE CURB WITH REINFORCING
S17
W
DOMESTIC WATER VALVE BOX
FOR FUTURE OUTDOOR SINK.
S18
HOSE BIB ON POST WITH DISSIPATION PIT
4" X 4" SQ METAL POST PAINTED WITH SS HOSE BIB.  METAL HEADER
AND GRAVEL DISSIPATION PIT
TRASH ENCLOSURE
12'-2" X 6'-7" X 6' ENCLOSURE TO MATCH FENCE TYPE 1. WITH ROOF
S13
SITE LIGHTING
S19
METAL EDGE RESTRAINT
S20
MATERIAL KEY
MATERIALS NOTES
PLANTING AREA
ADA ACCESS/COMPANION SEATING AREA
EXPANSION /  ISOLATION  JOINT
1.
 ALL PAVING PROFILES MUST REVIEWED AND APPROVED  BY THE GEOTECH AND CIVIL ENGINEER TO ENSURE
COMPLIANCE WITH  THE  COUNTY OF SAN MATEO STANDARDS.
2.
VEHICULAR PROFILES WILL BE MANAGED BY THE CIVIL ENGINEER WHILE THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT WILL
SPECIFY FINISHES RELATED TO FINISHED SURFACE
3.
REFER TO TREE PROTECTION NOTES FOR WORK WITHIN AREAS OF TREE PROTECTION  ZONE (TPZ).
L-01
L-02
EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN - SEE TREE PROTECTION
PLANS
1
L9.01
2
L5.10
1
L5.10
STAKED ALUMINUM LANDSCAPE EDGE RESTRAINT
SEE LIGHTING PLANS
SEE LIGHTING PLANS
S14
LOW FENCE ON RETAINING WALL
4' TALL 9 GUAGE VINYL COATED (PVC) COMMERCIAL CHAIN LINK
FENCE FABRIC IN 1" MESH. COLOR: BLACK. KNUCKLED ENDS.WITH
MAINTENANCE GATE. SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
2
L5.20
1
L5.20
3
L5.10
 BOLLARDS
36" HEIGHT, STAINLESS STEEL BOLLARD, LOW IMAPACT
4
L5.10
B

--- page 73 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L1.10
MATERIAL IMAGES
SITE PAVING
SITE ELEMENTS
BICYCLE RACKS
BICYCLE LOCKER
WHEEL STOPS
FENCE & GATE TYPE 1- WOOD, TRASH
ENCLOSURE (SIMILAR)
PLAY STRUCTURE
SAND BOX
RAISED VEGETABLE PLANTERS
GROVE CHAIRS
GROVE SIDE TABLE
TABLES & BENCHES
TRUNCATED DOME PAVERS
P1a
S1
P4
S6
S11
P1b
S2
S7
S12
S3
P6
S8
P2
S4b
P7
S9
S14
P3
S10
S15
S16
ACCESSIBLE TRANSFER BAR
S17
CONCRETE CURB AT PARKING LOT
S18
HOSEBIB ON POST WITH DOWNSPOUT
DISSIPATION
EV CHARGER
LOW FENCE ON RETAINING WALL
DOMESTIC WATER VALVE BOX
S4a
S5b
S5a
STANDARD CONCRETE PAVING - PEDESTRIAN
STANDARD CONCRETE PAVING - VEHICULAR
ASPHALT PAVING-VEHICULAR
RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING
STABILIZED CRUSHED STONE PAVING
PLAY SAND
FENCE & GATE TYPE 2 - METAL
MULCH
P5
S19
METAL EDGE RESTRAINT
S20
BOLLARDS
S13
B

--- page 74 ---
CLASSROOM
CLASSROOM
15
CLASSROOM
15
CLASSROOM
15
CLASSROOM
15
CLASSROOM
15
ELEC
RECEPTION
OFFICE
WORKROOM
VEGGIE GARDEN
PLAY YARD
OUTDOOR
CLASSROOM
GROVE
MUD SPACE
SAND BOX
WC
WC
WC
WC
WC
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#19
#18
WC
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
TOP OF SLOPE
TOP OF SLOPE
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
6
WELCOME
PLAZA
7
8
9
10
 11
   3
COMPACT
   4
COMPACT
   5
COMPACT
   2
   1
M
MV
FS
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.01.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
L3.00
IRRIGATION PLAN
0
10'
20'
N
IRRIGATION CONTROLLER "C". MOUNT ON THE WALL AT THIS LOCATION AS
DETAILED AND AS DIRECTED BY ARCHITECT. CONNECT TO 120 VOLT A.C. ELECTRICAL
SERVICE INSTALLED AT THIS LOCATION UNDER ELECTRICAL CONTRACT. IRRIGATION
CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE LOCATION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE PRIOR TO
CONSTRUCTION.
3/4" WATER METER WITH 1" SERVICE LINE FOR IRRIGATION TO BE PROVIDED BY
OTHER. MAXIMUM IRRIGATION DEMAND: 18 GPM AT 65 PSI STATIC PRESSURE AT
WATER METER LOCATION.
WIRELESS RAIN SENSOR. MOUNT ON EAVE OF BUILDING. INSTALL SENSOR OPEN
TO THE SKY. COORDINATE AND CONFIRM EXACT LOCATION WITH LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
IRRIGATION NARRATIVE:
TREES: SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH LOW FLOW BUBBLERS, WITH A MINIMUM TWO PER TREE.
BIORETENTION PLANTERS: SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH INLINE DRIP.
PLANTERS WITH SHRUB AND GROUND COVERS: SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH HIGH EFFICIENCY
INLINE DRIP OR LOW FLOW BUBBLERS.
EGP-12/
EGP-ICENTRAL
RAIN MASTER EAGLE PLUS CONTROLLER IN A WALL MOUNTED ENCLOSURE;
INCLUDES I-CARD, CELL COMMUNICATION KIT AND FIVE YEARS RAIN MASTER
I-CENTRAL SERVICE.
RS-500
IRRITROL WIRED RAIN SENSOR
FSI-T10-001
CST 1" PLASTIC FLOW SENSOR
FS
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
IRRIGATION LEGEND
1 1/2" AND SMALLER:
1120-SCHEDULE 40 PVC PLASTIC PIPE WITH
SCHEDULE 40 PVC SOLVENT WELD FITTINGS.
18" COVER.
MAIN LINE:
MODEL NUMBER
975XL2SEU-1"
WILKINS REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY
3100100
SUPERIOR MASTER VALVE-1" (NORMALLY OPEN)
MV
T-FP600A-LF
NIBCO BRASS BALL VALVE (LINE SIZE)
-
WATER METER, REFER TO CIVIL PLANS
M
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B

--- page 75 ---
SYMBOL
CODE
BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME
E
ZIS
WATER USE
QTY
MATURE HEIGHT
TREES
AH
A
TI
N
A
Z
N
A
M
 
N
O
M
M
O
C
 
D
R
U
H
 .
R
D
 / 'D
R
U
H
 .
R
D' A
TI
N
A
Z
N
A
M
 S
O
L
Y
H
P
A
T
S
O
T
C
R
A
36" BOX
VERY LOW
1
10 - 15FT. HT.
CC
CORYMBIA CITRIODORA / LEMON SCENTED GUM
24" BOX
LOW
9
> 65FT. HT.
MS
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA / SWEETBAY MAGNOLIA
X
O
B "4
2
MODERATE
3
10 - FT. HT.
MS
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA / SWEETBAY MAGNOLIA
36" BOX
E
T
A
R
E
D
O
M
2
10 - FT. HT.
NS
NYSSA SYLVATICA / TUPELO
24" BOX
MODERATE
2
25 - 40FT. HT.
NS
NYSSA SYLVATICA / TUPELO
36" BOX
MODERATE
5
25 - 40FT. HT.
PC
PISTACIA CHINENSIS / CHINESE PISTACHE
36" BOX
LOW
4
25 - 40FT. HT.
UP
ULMUS PARVIFOLIA / LACEBARK ELM
24" BOX
LOW
3
25 - FT. HT.
SHRUBS
AK
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'KANGA RED' / KANGA RED KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
VERY LOW
41
AB
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS EDMUNDSII 'BIG SUR' / BIG SUR LITTLE SUR MANZANITA
5 GAL.
LOW
40
CB
CAREX BARBARAE / SANTA BARBARA SEDGE
1 GAL.
LOW
92
18 - 36IN. HT.
CS
F
A
E
L
E
G
A
S E
S
O
R
K
C
O
R
 / S
U
IL
O
FIIV
L
A
S S
U
T
SI
C
1 GAL.
LOW
30
6 - 18IN. HT.
CR
CLEMATIS VITICELLA 'RUBRA' / RUBRA CLEMATIS
1 GAL.
LOW
21
CP2
CORREA PULCHELLA / AUSTRALIAN FUCHSIA
1 GAL.
LOW
2
18 - 36IN. HT.
FC
FRANGULA CALIFORNICA 'MOUND SAN BRUNO' / MOUND SAN BRUNO COFFEEBERRY
5 GAL.
LOW
13
3 - 6FT. HT.
LF
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA 'DEL SOL' / DEL SOL SMALL MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
17
LL
LOMANDRA X 'LOMLON' / LIME TUFF™ DWARF MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
W
O
L
22
18 - 36IN. HT.
MA
R
E
W
O
L
F
Y
E
K
N
O
M
 Y
K
C
IT
S / S
U
C
AIT
N
A
R
U
A S
U
L
U
M
I
M
1 GAL.
VERY LOW
36
.T
H
 .T
F
6 - 3
RE
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE' / EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
5 GAL.
LOW
22
3 - 1FT. HT.
SS
SALVIA SPATHACEA / HUMMINGBIRD SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
33
18 - 36IN. HT.
SV
SENECIO VITALIS / BLUE CHALK FINGERS
1 GAL.
LOW
3
6 - 18IN. HT.
GROUND COVERS
LA
LIPPIA NODIFLORA 'KURAPIA S1' / KURAPIA®
FLAT
LOW
489 SF
< 6IN. HT.
PLANT SCHEDULE
12 - 24IN. HT.
24 - 36IN. HT.
A/
N
12 - 24IN. HT.
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L4.01
PLANTING NOTES
AND SCHEDULE
TREE PLANTING NOTES
1.
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE TREE LIST AND PRELIMINARY SOURCES TO ENSURE ADEQUATE QUANTITIES AND SIZES OF PLANT  MATERIAL WILL BE
AVAILABLE IN TIME FOR SCHEDULED INSTALLATION.
2.
ALL TREES SHALL BE APPROVED BY PROJECT ARBORIST AND CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT PHOTOS AND SIZE SPECS FOR ALL TREES FOR PRELIMINARY REVIEW.  FOLLOWING REVIEW A TREE TAGGING SCHEDULE
SHALL BE SUBMITTED.
4.
ALL TREES TO HAVE PLANTING PIT PREPARED AND BACKFILLED WITH APPROVED SOIL
5.
ALL TREES TO BE IRRIGATED WITH AUTOMATIC BUBBLER IRRIGATION SYSTEM PER COUNTY OF SAN MATEO.
6.
PROTECT EXISTING TREES TO REMAIN AS DOCUMENTED IN PLANS. AVOID UNNECESSARY ROOT DISTURBANCE, COMPACTION OF SOILS WITHIN DRIP LINE,
OR LIMB BREAKAGE.
7.
DO NOT STORE MATERIAL OR DISPOSE OF ANY MATERIAL OTHER THAN CLEAN WATER WITHIN DRIP LINE. PROVIDE ADEQUATE IRRIGATION DURING
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
8.
DURING CONSTRUCTION. REPLACE ANY TREE DAMAGED DURING CONSTRUCTION WITH TREE OF EQUAL SIZE AND VALUE AT NO ADDITIONAL COST.
9.
ALL TREES TO BE SET WITH CROWN 3" TO 6" ABOVE ADJACENT FINISH GRADE.
10.
ALL SITE TREES SHALL HAVE SUB-DRAINAGE PER TYPICAL PLANTING DETAILS UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED BY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT .  REFER TO
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS
11.
FINAL TREE SELECTION AND LAYOUT SHALL BE REFINED BASED ON THE FOLLOWING SELECTION CRITERIA:
A. SOILS AND HORTICULTURE SUITABILITY
B. FIRE OFFSETS AND RISK
C. WIND TOLERANCE
D. WATER EFFICENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE (WELO) REQUIREMENTS
E. AESTHETIC QUALITY
F. ECOLOGICAL VALUE - HABITAT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
G. SUN AND SHADE
UNDERSTORY  PLANTING NOTES
1.    A MINIMUM 3" LAYER OF MULCH SHALL BE APPLIED ON ALL EXPOSED SOIL SURFACES OF PLANTING EXCEPT IN TURF AREAS, CREEPING OR ROOTING
GROUNDCOVERS AND DIRECT SEEDING APPLICATIONS, SEE PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS
2.    ALL PLANTING AREAS TO BE TILLED WITH AMENDED OR IMPORTED SOIL PER SPECIFICATIONS AND AGRONOMIC SOILS REPORT AND IRRIGATED AS NOTED ON
PLANS.
3.    SEE PLANTING DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS.
4.    ALL LANDSCAPE PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE SHALL CONFORM WITH ALL APPLICABLE UCSD CODES, ORDINANCES, AND LAWS.
5.    CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL SITE CONDITIONS AND UTILITY LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCING LANDSCAPE PLANTING WORK. WHERE IN-THE-FIELD
CONFLICTS ARISE BETWEEN PLANT AND UTILITY LOCATIONS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE THE NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS TO PLANT PLACEMENT WITH TH
APPROVAL OF THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT, IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE OPTIMUM DESIGN INTENT.
6.   PROTECT EXISTING PLANTS TO REMAIN. AVOID UNNECESSARY ROOT DISTURBANCE, COMPACTION OF SOILS WITHIN DRIP LINE, OR LIMB BREAKAGE. DO NOT
STORE MATERIAL OR DISPOSE OF ANY MATERIAL OTHER THAN CLEAN WATER WITHIN DRIP LINE. PROVIDE ADEQUATE IRRIGATION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
REPLACE ANY TREE OR SHRUB DAMAGED DURING CONSTRUCTION WITH PLANTS OF EQUAL SIZE AND VALUE AT NO ADDITIONAL COST TO THE OWNER.
7.    IN ALL AREAS WHERE ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PAVING IS TO BE REMOVED AND REPLACED WITH NEW PLANTING, REMOVE ALL EXISTING AGGREGATE BASE,
GRAVEL,ETC.
8.   FINE GRADING IN ALL PLANTING AREAS SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF PLANT MATERIALS, COORDINATE
FINISH GRADE TO ALLOW FOR SPECIFIED DEPTH OF MULCH.
9.   PLANTS SHALL BE NURSERY GROWN, OF THE FINEST QUALITY AND FREE OF DISEASE OR DAMAGE.
10. PLANT MATERIAL SHALL BE INSPECTED AND APPROVED BY THE OWNER'S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
11. PLANT LOCATIONS TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT. MOVE INSTALLED IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT CONFLICTING WITH ACCEPTED PLANT
LOCATIONS.
12. CONTRACTOR TO CALCULATE AND VERIFY PLANT QUANTITIES. ALL DISCREPANCIES IN QUANTITIES SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR.
13. LAYOUT OF PLANT MATERIALS SHOWN ON DRAWINGS ARE APPROXIMATE.  LAYOUT OF PLANT MATERIALS SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITEC
PRIOR TO FINAL INSTALLATION.
14. INSTALL IRRIGATION SYSTEM PRIOR TO INSTALLING PLANTS.
15. THE PLANTING DESIGN COMPLIES WITH THE CRITERIA FOR THE WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE AND HAS BEEN APPLIED FOR THE
EFFICIENT USE OF WATER IN THE LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION DESIGN
B

--- page 76 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
#27
#23
#24
#25
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
X
O
B "4
2
24" BOX
24" BOX
24" BOX
24" BOX
VIEW TRIANGLE, TYP. NO
PLANTS TALLER THAN 3' IN
THIS ZONE
SYMBOL
CODE
E
M
A
N
 
N
O
M
M
O
C
 / L
A
C
I
N
A
T
O
B
TREES
AH
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS MANZANITA 'DR. HURD' / DR. HURD COMMON MANZANITA
CC
M
U
G
 
D
E
T
N
E
C
S 
N
O
M
E
L / A
R
O
D
O
I
R
TI
C
 AIB
M
Y
R
O
C
MS
AIL
O
N
G
A
M
 Y
A
B
T
E
E
W
S / A
N
AI
N
I
G
R
IV AIL
O
N
G
A
M
MS
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA / SWEETBAY MAGNOLIA
NS
NYSSA SYLVATICA / TUPELO
NS
NYSSA SYLVATICA / TUPELO
PC
PISTACIA CHINENSIS / CHINESE PISTACHE
UP
ULMUS PARVIFOLIA / LACEBARK ELM
PLANT SCHEDULE
SHRUBS
AK
W
A
P 
O
O
R
A
G
N
A
K 
D
E
R
 A
G
N
A
K / 'D
E
R
 A
G
N
A
K' X S
O
H
T
N
A
Z
O
G
I
N
A
1 GAL.
VERY LOW
41
AB
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS EDMUNDSII 'BIG SUR' / BIG SUR LITTLE SUR MANZANITA
5 GAL.
LOW
40
CB
CAREX BARBARAE / SANTA BARBARA SEDGE
1 GAL.
LOW
92
18 - 36IN. HT.
CS
F
A
E
L
E
G
A
S E
S
O
R
K
C
O
R
 / S
U
IL
O
FIIV
L
A
S S
U
T
SI
C
1 GAL.
LOW
30
6 - 18IN. HT.
CR
CLEMATIS VITICELLA 'RUBRA' / RUBRA CLEMATIS
1 GAL.
LOW
21
CP2
CORREA PULCHELLA / AUSTRALIAN FUCHSIA
1 GAL.
LOW
2
18 - 36IN. HT.
FC
FRANGULA CALIFORNICA 'MOUND SAN BRUNO' / MOUND SAN BRUNO COFFEEBERRY
5 GAL.
LOW
13
3 - 6FT. HT.
LF
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA 'DEL SOL' / DEL SOL SMALL MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
W
O
L
17
LL
H
S
U
R
 T
A
M
 F
R
A
W
D
 
™
F
F
U
T E
M
IL / 'N
O
L
M
O
L' X A
R
D
N
A
M
O
L
1 GAL.
LOW
22
18 - 36IN. HT.
MA
MIMULUS AURANTIACUS / STICKY MONKEYFLOWER
1 GAL.
VERY LOW
36
3 - 6FT. HT.
RE
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE' / EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
5 GAL.
LOW
22
3 - 1FT. HT.
SS
E
G
A
S 
D
R
IB
G
N
I
M
M
U
H
 / A
E
C
A
H
T
A
P
S AIV
L
A
S
1 GAL.
LOW
33
18 - 36IN. HT.
SV
SENECIO VITALIS / BLUE CHALK FINGERS
1 GAL.
LOW
3
6 - 18IN. HT.
GROUND COVERS
LA
LIPPIA NODIFLORA 'KURAPIA S1' / KURAPIA®
FLAT
LOW
489 SF
< 6IN. HT.
12 - 24IN. HT.
.T
H
 .
N
I6
3 - 4
2
N/A
12 - 24IN. HT.
SIZE
WATER USE
36" BOX
VERY LOW
24" BOX
LOW
24" BOX
MODERATE
36" BOX
MODERATE
24" BOX
MODERATE
36" BOX
MODERATE
36" BOX
LOW
X
O
B "4
2
LOW
QTY
1
9
3
2
2
5
4
3
MATURE HEIGHT
10 - 15FT. HT.
> 65FT. HT.
10 - FT. HT.
10 - FT. HT.
25 - 40FT. HT.
25 - 40FT. HT.
25 - 40FT. HT.
25 - FT. HT.
SIZE
WATER USE
QTY
MATURE HEIGHT
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L4.00
PLANTING PLAN
0
8'
16'
N
1'
1/8"  =  1'-0"
B

--- page 77 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L4.10
PLANTING IMAGES
TREES
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE
MATURE HEIGHT: 30'-35'
MATURE SPREAD: 25'-30'
CORYMBIA CITRIODORA
LEMON-SCENTED GUM
MATURE HEIGHT: 20'-30'
MATURE SPREAD: 50'
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS MANZANITA 'DR. HURD'
DR. HURD MANZANITA
MATURE HEIGHT: 12'-20'
MATURE SPREAD: 10'-15'
QUERCUS TOMENTELLA
ISLAND OAK
MATURE HEIGHT: 50'
MATURE SPREAD: 25'-30'
UNDERSTORY
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'KANGA RED'
KANGA RED KANGAROO PAW
CISTUS SALVIIFOLIUS
ROCKROSE SAGELEAF
CAREX BARBARAE
SANTA BARBARA SEDGE
CORREA PULCHELLA
AUSTRALIAN FUCHSIA
FRANGULA CALIFORNICA 'MOUND
SAN BRUNO'
SAN BRUNO COFFEE BERRY
SALVIA SPATHACEA
HUMMINGBIRD SAGE
NOTE: SEE SHEET L4.00 FOR SHRUB
SIZE, QUANTITY AND WATER USE
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
NYSSA SYLVATICA
BLACK TUPELO
MATURE HEIGHT: 25'-45''
MATURE SPREAD: 15'-25'
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA
SWEETBAY  MAGNOLIA
MATURE HEIGHT: 20'-35'
MATURE SPREAD: 10'-25'
MIMULUS AURANTIACUS
STICKEY
LIPPIA NODIFLORA 'KURAPIA S1'
KURAPIA
SENECIO VITALIS
BLUE CHALK FINGERS
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS EDMUNDII 'BIG SUR'
BIG SUR MANZANITA
CLEMATIS VITICELLA 'RUBRA'
RUBRA CLEMATIS
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA 'DEL SOL'
DEL SOL SMALL MAT RUSH
LOMANDRA X 'LOMLON'
LIME TUFF DWARF MAT RUSH
B

--- page 78 ---
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L4.11
WELO FORMS
WELO FORMS
B

--- page 79 ---
PROPERTY LINE
TOP OF BANK
LIMIT OF WORK
68.88
(E) 64.00
(E) 69.50
TREE PROTECTION ZONE
-
REFER TO TREE PROTECTION
GUIDELINES FOR WORK
NEEDED WITHIN TREE ZONE
FENCE TYPE 2 - METAL
-
6'-0" HEIGHT
-
FOOTINGS EVERY 8'-0" MAX
FACE OF BUILDING
TREE PLANTING AT
GROVE AREA
BICYCLE LOCKER
STABILIZED STONE
PAVINER
FACE OF BUILDING
TREE PLANTING AT PLAY AREA
-
SUBDRAINAGE TO CONNECT
TO CIVIL STORM DRAIN
68.50
69.67
(E) 66.00
SAND BOX
-
CONNECT DRAIN TO SD PER
CIVIL DRAWINGS
PLANTING AREA, TYP
PERIMETER WALKWAY
TREE PROTECTION ZONE
-
REFER TO TREE PROTECTION
GUIDELINES FOR WORK
NEEDED WITHIN TREE ZONE
TOP OF SLOPE 66.80
FENCE TYPE 2
-
6' TALL 9  GAUGE VINYL
COATED.
-
MOUNTED TO RETAINING/
BIOTREATMENT WALL
BIOTREATMENT AREA
-SCD FOR DIMENSIONS AND SIZING
-REFER TO PLANTING PLANS FOR
PLANT TYPE AND SPACING.
RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING, TYP
PEDESTRIAN CONCRETE
PAVING
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L5.00
SECTIONS AND
ELEVATIONS
Scale:
1
SECTION- GROVE AREA A
1/2" = 1'-0"
Scale:
2
SECTION - PLAY AREA
1/2" = 1'-0"
B

--- page 80 ---
8'-0" O.C. MAX
2"
MAX.
6'-0"
2'-9"
1'-4"
DIA.
3"Ø NOMINAL O.D. GALVANIZED STEEL END
AND CORNER POST WITH CAP
3/4" X 1/4" STRETCHER BAR
- 3/4" X 1/8" BANDS AT 18" O.C. MAX AND END
  AND CORNER POSTS (BOTH DIRECTIONS)
2"Ø GALVANIZED STEEL TOP AND BOTTOM
RAIL
- RUN PARALLEL TO FINISH GRADE
- SEE MATERIALS SCHEDULE
1" MESH
- NO. 9 GAUGE
- VINYL COATED, SEE MATERIALS SCHEDULE
2 1/2"Ø NOMINAL O.D. GALVANIZED STEEL
LINE POST WITH CAP
- TO RECEIVE TOP RAIL AND BAND
  ATTACHMENTS AT 18" O.C. MAX
CONCRETE FOOTING
-FOOTING TO BE CONFIRMED WITH
GEOTECTNICAL ENGINEER REPORT
NOTES:
1. SUBMIT COMPLETE SHOP DRAWINGS
FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO
FABRICATION.
2. POSTS AND RAILS SHALL BE COATED
TO MATCH MESH, SEE
SPECIFICATIONS.
3. ALL POSTS AND FENCE CONNECTIONS
SHALL BE PAINTED TO MATCH FENCE.
4. INSTALL BLACK WIND/PRIVACY SCREEN
ON BACK SIDE OF FENCE.
COMPACTED SUBGRADE
- PER GEOTECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS
3"
STEEL POST PAINTED BLACK
-
2"X2"
6'-0"
WESTERN RED CEDAR POST
-
2X6 GRADE A PANELS
-
-1" GAP
CONCRETE FOOTING
-
EMBED POST
-
DIMENSIONS AND
REINFORCMENT TO BE
REVIEWED BY CIVIL AND
GEOTECT ENGINEER.
7'-2"
FENCE TYPE 1 - WOOD, SEE
MATERIAL SCHEDULE
PLANTING AREA
CONCRETE CURB
TRASH ENCLOSURE SEE
MATERIAL SCHEDULE
PLANTING AREA
CONCRETE PAVING, SEE
MATERIAL SCHEDULE
8'-0"
8'-0" O.C. MAX
2
MAX.
3'-8"
3"Ø NOMINAL O.D. GALVANIZED STEEL END
AND CORNER POST WITH CAP
3/4" X 1/4" STRETCHER BAR
- 3/4" X 1/8" BANDS AT 18" O.C. MAX AND END
  AND CORNER POSTS (BOTH DIRECTIONS)
2"Ø GALVANIZED STEEL TOP AND BOTTOM
RAIL
- RUN PARALLEL TO FINISH GRADE
- SEE MATERIALS SCHEDULE
1" MESH
- NO. 9 GAUGE
- VINYL COATED, SEE MATERIALS SCHEDULE
2 1/2"Ø NOMINAL O.D. GALVANIZED STEEL
LINE POST WITH CAP
- TO RECEIVE TOP RAIL AND BAND
  ATTACHMENTS AT 18" O.C. MAX
CONCRETE RETAINING WALL
COMPACTED SUBGRADE
- PER GEOTECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L5.10
SECTIONS AND
ELEVATIONS
CONT'D
Scale:
1
FENCE TYP 2 - METAL
3/4" = 1'-0"
Scale:
2
FENCE TYPE 1 - WOOD
3/4" = 1'-0"
Scale:
3
TRASH ENCLOSURE
1/2" = 1'-0"
Scale:
4
LOW FENCE ELEVATION
3/4" = 1'-0"
B

--- page 81 ---
6'-0 1/8"
7'-1 3/8"
FACE OF BUILDNG
BUILDING
ENTRANCE
17'-10"
PLANTING
AREA
SHORT TERM BIKE
RACK, SEE MATERIAL
SCHEDULE
FACE OF 6" TALL CURB
1'-6 1/4"
3'-0" CLR
3'-0" CLR
BUILDING
ENTRANCE
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING,
SEE MATERIAL SCHEDULE
PUBLIC WORKS ACCESS TO CREEK BANG
30'-9"
5'-0"
2'-8"
6'-4"
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#4
PAVED SURFACES DEVOTED TO
ON-SITE CIRCULATION AND
PARKING, INCLUDING CURBS.
5,604 SQUARE FEET TOTAL
6'-0"
6'-0"
PLANTING AREA WITHIN 6' OF
PAVED SURFACES DEVOTED TO
ON-SITE CIRCULATION AND
PARKING, INCLUDING CURBS.
1,413 SQUARE FEET TOTAL
5,604SF X 10% = 571 SF
1,413 SF / 5,604 SF = 25%
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2742 17TH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
T: 415-450-9519
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
1/9/2025 8:19:33 AM
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
2.14.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
5.09.2025
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
7.16.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
B
L5.20
ENTITLEMENT
DIAGRAMS
Scale:
2
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING
1/2" = 1'-0"
Scale:
1
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING
1/2" = 1'-0"
Scale:
3
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING
1/2" = 1'-0"
B

--- page 82 ---
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C1.0
PRELIMINARY DEMOLITION
PLAN

--- page 83 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C2.0
PRELIMINARY HORIZONTAL
CONTROL PLAN
B
B

--- page 84 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C3.0
PRELIMINARY SITE GRADING
PLAN

--- page 85 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN

--- page 86 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN

--- page 87 ---
A
A
PLAN VIEW
SECTION A-A
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C6.0
DETAILS
B

--- page 88 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
W
#27
#23
#24
#25
#22
#19
#18
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C7.0
EROSION CONTROL PLAN

--- page 89 ---
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
BKF ENGINEERS
300 FRANK OGAWA PLAZA
SUITE 380
OAKLAND, CA 94612
(510) 899-7300
www.bkf.com
AS SHOWN
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
A
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
B
C7.1
EROSION CONTROL DETAILS
PAVED ROADWAY

--- page 90 ---
FEEDER SIZE - SEE POWER SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS & FEEDER SCHEDULE
CIRCUIT BREAKER.  NUMBER INDICATES 30A 3-POLE
CURRENT TRANSFORMERS
1504N
30A
3P
CT'S
M
 
 
 
UTILITY METER
SPRINKLER FLOW ALARM (PROVIDE BY SPRINKLER CONTRACTOR).
CONNECT COMPLETE VIA WATER FLOW SWITCH AUX. CONTACTS. SEE
FIRE PROTECTION DRAWINGS
B
WIRE SIZE 10 AWG FOR ALL CONDUCTORS, INCLUDING GROUND WIRE,
THROUGHOUT THE COMPLETE CIRCUIT
(#10)
NUMBERED SHEET NOTE
DETAIL DESIGNATION - SEE DETAIL 3, SHEET E-6
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATION - SEE MECHANICAL PLANS
#4/0 COPPER GROUNDING ELECTRODE CONDUCTOR, U.O.N.
AC-1
WEATHERPROOF ENCLOSURE
CONDUIT AND WIRE CONCEALED IN OR UNDER SLAB OR UNDERGROUND
CONDUIT AND WIRE CONCEALED IN CEILING OR WALL
HOMERUN TO PANELBOARD OR TERMINAL BOARD, AS NOTED ON PLANS
CONDUIT TURNED UP
CONDUIT TURNED DOWN
CONDUIT AND WIRE RUN EXPOSED
CONDUIT STUBBED OUT, CAPPED AND MARKED
COMPLETE CONNECTION OF EQUIPMENT
FLEXIBLE METALLIC CONDUIT
T
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM CONTROL MODULE
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SMOKE DETECTOR
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPRINKLER VALVE SUPERVISORY SWITCH.  PROVIDE
MONITOR MODULE. SEE FIRE PROTECTION DRAWINGS
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPRINKLER FLOW SWITCH.  PROVIDE MONITOR MODULE.
SEE FIRE PROTECTION DRAWINGS
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM STROBE, UP 80" U.O.N.  NUMBER ADJACENT INDICATES
CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
WEATHERPROOF FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HORN/STROBE, UP 80" U.O.N.  NUMBER
ADJACENT INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HORN/STROBE, UP 80" U.O.N.  NUMBER ADJACENT
INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM MANUAL PULL STATION, UP 48" U.O.N.
MOTOR WITH FLEXIBLE CONDUIT CONNECTION AND DISCONNECT
MANUAL MOTOR STARTER WITH OVERLOAD PROTECTION
MAGNETIC MOTOR STARTER
COMBINATION MAGNETIC MOTOR STARTER & MOTOR CIRCUIT PROTECTOR
MOTOR DISCONNECT SWITCH; HORSEPOWER RATED, NON FUSE
FUSED EQUIPMENT DISCONNECT SWITCH WITH FUSE SIZE AS RECOMMENDED
BY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER
COPPER GROUND ROD
CONCRETE PULLBOX, SIZE AS REQUIRED OR SHOWN - CHRISTY OR EQUAL WITH
LABELED LID PER USE
TRANSFORMER
SURFACE MOUNTED PANELBOARD, 6'-6" TO TOP
FLUSH MOUNTED PANELBOARD, 6'-6" TO TOP
MAIN SWITCHBOARD, DISTRIBUTION PANEL OR MOTOR CONTROL CENTER
SPECIAL RECEPTACLE AS INDICATED ON PLANS
20A 3PG 125V DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, UP 18" U.O.N.
20A 3PG 125V DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, MOUNTED ABOVE COUNTER, U.O.N.
20A 3PG 125V DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, GROUND FAULT CIRCUIT INTERRUPTER
TYPE, UP 18" U.O.N.
20A 3PG 125V DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, WEATHERPROOF, UP 18" U.O.N.
JUNCTION BOX FLUSH FLOOR MOUNTED
FLUSH WALL MOUNTED JUNCTION BOX, UP 18" U.O.N.
FLUSH CEILING MOUNTED JUNCTION BOX, U.O.N.
GFI
J
20A 3PG 125V DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, ISOLATED GROUND TYPE, UP 18" U.O.N.
IG
20A 3PG 125V SINGLE RECEPTACLE, UP 18" U.O.N.
20A 3PG 125V SINGLE TWISTLOCK RECEPTACLE, NEMA L5-20R, UP 18" U.O.N.
SURFACE MOUNTED WIREMOLD RACEWAY WITH RECEPTACLES AS INDICATED ON
PLANS
TELEPHONE OUTLET, UP 18" U.O.N.
TELEPHONE OUTLET, UP 48" U.O.N.
TERMINAL MOUNTING BACKBOARD, 3/4" PLYWOOD, DIMENSIONS AS NOTED ON
PLANS, PAINT TO MATCH ADJACENT WALL SURFACE, MAINTAINING UL FIRE
LABEL VISIBLE
INTERCOM HANDSET, UP 48" U.O.N.
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM CEILING MOUNTED SMOKE DETECTOR PROGRAMMED FOR
AUTOMATIC RECALL OF ELEVATOR
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HEAT DETECTOR
FLUSH CEILING MTD. DUPLEX OUTLET, 20A 3PG
LINE VOLTAGE THREE-WAY TOGGLE SWITCH, UP 48" U.O.N.
$3
$p
WALL MOUNTED DIGITAL SWITCH, UP 48" U.O.N.; LOWER CASE LETTER
ADJACENT INDICATES RESPECTIVE ZONE CONTROLLED
LINE VOLTAGE TOGGLE SWITCH WITH PILOT LIGHT, LIGHT IS ON WHEN
CIRCUIT IS CLOSED, UP 48" U.O.N.
LOW VOLTAGE MOMENTARY CONTACT SWITCH - SEE LOW VOLTAGE RELAY
SCHEDULE, LOWER CASE LETTER ADJACENT INDICATES RESPECTIVE ZONE
CONTROLLED, UP 48" U.O.N.
$2
$a
EM
OR
E
SUSPENDED LINEAR LUMINAIRE
LINE VOLTAGE SINGLE POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, LETTER ADJACENT INDICATES
RESPECTIVE ZONE CONTROLLED, UP 48" U.O.N.
CEILING MOUNTED EXIT SIGN, ARROWS AS NOTED ON PLANS.  SHADED AREA
INDICATES NUMBER OF FACES
WALL MOUNTED EXIT SIGN, ARROWS AS NOTED ON PLANS.  SHADED AREA
INDICATES NUMBER OF FACES
RECESSED WALLWASH LUMINAIRE. UNSHADED SIDE INDICATES DIRECTION OF
WALL TO BE ILLUMINATED
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT LUMINAIRE
WALL MOUNTED LUMINAIRE
LINE VOLTAGE TWO POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, UP 48" U.O.N.
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT WITH DECORATIVE TRIM
RECESSED ADJUSTABLE ACCENT LUMINAIRE.  ARROW INDICATES AIMING
DIRECTION
SURFACE CEILING MOUNTED LUMINAIRE
SURFACE OR SUSPENDED STRIP LUMINAIRE
SURFACE CEILING, WALL OR COVE MOUNTED LUMINAIRE
INDICATES COMBINATION AIRCRAFT CABLE/ELECTRICAL FEED POINT (VERIFY
WITH MANUFACTURER)
INDICATES AIRCRAFT CABLE SUPPORT POINT (VERIFY WITH MANUFACTURER)
RECESSED 2'x2', 2'x4' OR 1'x4' LUMINAIRE, FULLY LENSED
INDICATES EMERGENCY LUMINAIRE.  SEE ABBREVIATIONS FOR TYPE OF
EMERGENCY SOURCE
RECESSED 2'x2', 2'x4' LUMINAIRE WITH DECORATIVE ARTICULATED OPTICAL
SHIELD
EM
OR
PENDANT MOUNTED LUMINAIRE
SURFACE MOUNTED LIGHTING TRACK WITH TRACK LUMINAIRES
STEM MOUNTED SIGN LIGHT
WALL MOUNTED EMERGENCY BATTERY EGRESS LUMINAIRE WITH NUMBER OF
ADJUSTABLE LAMP HEADS INDICATED
$k
LINE VOLTAGE KEY OPERATED TOGGLE SWITCH
LOW VOLTAGE KEYED MOMENTARY CONTACT SWITCH - SEE LOW VOLTAGE
RELAY SCHEDULE, LOWER CASE LETTER ADJACENT INDICATES RESPECTIVE ZONE
CONTROLLED, UP 48" U.O.N.
UNDER CABINET LUMINAIRE
a
LOW LEVEL WALL MOUNTED EXIT SIGN
S
Sab
kSab
1.
PRIOR TO BID THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VISIT THE SITE TO ADEQUATELY DETERMINE ALL
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS.  BY THE ACT OF SUBMITTING A BID, THE CONTRACTOR WILL BE DEEMED
TO HAVE COMPLIED WITH THE FOREGOING, TO HAVE ACCEPTED SUCH CONDITIONS, AND TO HAVE
MADE ALLOWANCES THEREFORE IN PREPARING THE BID.
2.
PROVIDE PARITY SIZED GREEN GROUND WIRE IN ALL POWER CONDUITS, BRANCH CIRCUITS (LIGHTING
& POWER) AND HOMERUNS.  PROVIDE ADDITIONAL ISOLATED GROUND, GREEN WITH YELLOW STRIPE,
TO ALL ISOLATED GROUND RECEPTACLES.
3.
PROVIDE PULLROPE IN ALL EMPTY CONDUITS THROUGHOUT THE PROJECT.
4.
REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL PLANS AND ELEVATIONS FOR EXACT LOCATION & CONNECTION
REQUIREMENTS OF ALL LUMINAIRE(S) AND ALL OUTLET, SWITCH, AND ELECTRICAL RELATED DEVICE
MOUNTING HEIGHTS AND LOCATIONS.  COORDINATE LOCATIONS OF ALL LUMINAIRE(S) AND JUNCTION
BOXES WITH MECHANICAL DIVISION PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.  COORDINATE LOCATIONS OF ELECTRICAL
DEVICES WITH FURNITURE PLANS PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.
5.
REFER TO MECHANICAL PLANS FOR EXACT LOCATION(S) OF ALL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT, AND
CONFIRM EXACT CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS OF ALL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT WITH MECHANICAL
DIVISION, PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.  VERIFY EXACT REQUIREMENTS FOR VOLTAGE, PHASE, HORSE-POWER,
OR KVA RATINGS, OF ALL MECHANICAL DIVISION EQUIPMENT REQUIRING ELECTRICAL CONNECTION.
6.
VERIFY EXACT CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS, OUTLET TYPE(S), MOUNTING HEIGHT(S) AND
LOCATION(S) OF ALL OWNER-SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT, AND ALL EQUIPMENT PROVIDED UNDER OTHER
SECTIONS OF THE SPECIFICATIONS, PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.  REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS FOR
EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS.
7.
COORDINATE TRENCHING WITH OWNER AND OTHER TRADES BEFORE BEGINNING WORK.
8.
ALL CONDUIT PENETRATIONS THROUGH FIRE-RATED WALLS AND FLOORS SHALL BE SEALED AND
EQUIPPED WITH U.L. LISTED FIRE PENETRATION ASSEMBLIES TO MAINTAIN FIRE SEPARATION RATING.
9.
DO NOT INSTALL ANY OUTLETS BACK TO BACK IN STUD WALLS OR DE-MOUNTABLE PARTITIONS.
10. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL CEILING TYPES BEFORE ORDERING OF LUMINAIRE(S).  ALSO
VERIFY THAT ALL FEATURES CALLED FOR IN LUMINAIRE DESCRIPTIONS ON THE LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
ARE INCLUDED WITH CATALOG NUMBERS LISTED ON THE LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE WHEN LUMINAIRE
ORDERS ARE PLACED, AND ARE INCLUDED AS PART OF THE LIGHTING SUBMITTALS FOR THIS PROJECT.
IF A DISCREPANCY EXISTS, CONTACT THE ARCHITECT AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER FOR CLARIFICATION
PRIOR TO BID.
11. CIRCUITRY AND CONDUIT ROUTING SHOWN ON THE PLANS IS DIAGRAMMATIC ONLY.  THIS
CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR BECOMING COMPLETELY FAMILIAR WITH THE ARCHITECTURAL AND
STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS IN THE BUILDING AND TO PROVIDE ALL LABOR, TOOLS
AND MATERIALS REQUIRED TO PRODUCE A COMPLETELY CONCEALED INSTALLATION WHEREVER
INDICATED ON THE PLANS.
12. MAINTAIN "AS-BUILT" RECORDS AT ALL TIMES, SHOWING EXACT LOCATION OF ALL UNDERGROUND
AND/OR CONCEALED CONDUITS AND SERVICES INSTALLED UNDER THIS CONTRACT, INCLUDING
CIRCUIT IDENTIFICATION WHERE APPLICABLE.  PROVIDE OWNER WITH "AS-BUILT" DOCUMENTS AS
INDICATED IN THE SPECIFICATIONS, AND/OR CALLED FOR IN THE SPECIFICATIONS.
13. DRAWINGS INDICATE THE LOCATION(S) OF DEVICES, LUMINAIRE(S) AND EQUIPMENT, AND THE
CIRCUIT NUMBER AND PANEL DESIGNATED TO SUPPLY THEM.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLETELY CONNECTING ALL ELECTRICAL DEVICES TO CIRCUITS INDICATED ON
THE DRAWINGS.
14. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL WORK SHOWN ON DRAWINGS IS NEW AND TO BE PROVIDED AND
INSTALLED COMPLETE UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
15. ALL EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SHALL CONFORM TO ARTICLE 250 OF THE NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE,
LATEST EDITION.
16. ALL EXTERIOR CONDUIT ABOVE GRADE, INCLUDING ALL ROOF MOUNTED CONDUIT, SHALL BE
GALVANIZED RIGID STEEL.  COAT ALL EXPOSED THREADS WITH GALVANIZING PAINT.  PAINT ALL
SURFACE MOUNTED RACEWAYS AND PULLBOXES TO MATCH SURROUNDING CONDITIONS, AS DIRECTED
BY THE ARCHITECT.
17. ALL ELECTRICAL WORK SHALL BE CARRIED OUT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LATEST EDITION OF THE
N.E.C., AS WELL AS STATE, AND LOCAL CODES AND REQUIREMENTS.
18. ALL CONDUIT SHALL BE CONCEALED, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
19. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO VERIFY THE AVAILABLE SHORT CIRCUIT CURRENT AT
THE MAIN SWITCHBOARD INCOMING TERMINALS WITH THE UTILITY COMPANY, AND TO VERIFY THAT
ALL POWER AND SIGNAL SERVICE PROVISIONS, INCLUDING CONCRETE EQUIPMENT PADS, CONDUITS,
PULLBOXES AND CLEARANCES, MEET THE UTILITY COMPANY'S REQUIREMENTS, PRIOR TO
INSTALLATION.
20. EQUIPMENT OVERLOADS AND FUSES SHALL BE PROVIDED AND INSTALLED AS PER NAME PLATE ON THE
EQUIPMENT ACTUALLY PROVIDED.
21. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY FOR ALL REQUIRED PERMITS AND INSPECTION FEES.
22. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL CRITICAL DIMENSIONS WITH THE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.
23. ALL EXIT SIGNS SHALL COMPLY WITH THE RELEVANT PORTIONS OF SECTIONS 1008 AND 1013 OF THE
CBC.
24. ALL MECHANICAL DIVISION EQUIPMENT LOW VOLTAGE CONTROL WIRING AND RACEWAY SHALL BE
PROVIDED AND INSTALLED AS SPECIFIED IN MECHANICAL DIVISION U.O.N.
25. COORDINATE INSTALLATION OF ALL RECESSED LUMINAIRE(S) WITH MECHANICAL DIVISION PRIOR TO
INSTALLATION OF HVAC DUCTS AND SPRINKLER HEADS.  ENSURE AFTER INSTALLATION OF
LUMINAIRE(S) THAT THERE IS NO CONTACT BETWEEN DUCTS AND LUMINAIRE(S) TO AVOID VIBRATION
IN LUMINAIRE(S).
26. USE FLEXIBLE CONDUIT FOR ALL MOTOR, TRANSFORMER, RECESSED LUMINAIRE CONNECTIONS, AND
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN TWO SEPARATE STRUCTURES AND FOR ALL FINAL CONNECTIONS TO
"CRITICAL EQUIPMENT" AS DEFINED IN SPECIFICATIONS.  MINIMUM 1/2" DIAMETER, LIQUID TIGHT
TYPE USED OUTDOORS AND IN ALL WET LOCATIONS; PROVIDE WITH CODE-SIZE (MINIMUM #12) BARE
GROUND WIRE IN ALL FLEXIBLE CONDUIT.
27. PROVIDE A DEDICATED NEUTRAL CONDUCTOR FOR ALL BRANCH CIRCUITS FEEDING OUTLETS AS
NOTED ON THE DRAWINGS.
28. FOR FLUSH MOUNTED PANELBOARDS THE CONTRACTOR SHALL STUB A MINIMUM OF FOUR (4) 3/4"
CONDUITS FROM THE PANEL UP INTO THE ACCESSIBLE CEILING ABOVE FOR FUTURE CIRCUITS.
29. ALL CONDUIT CONNECTORS TO OUTLET OR JUNCTION BOXES SHALL HAVE INSULATED THROATS
(MANUFACTURED AS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE CONNECTOR).  AFTER-MARKET INSERTABLE THROATS
ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE.
30. ALL CIRCUITS IN ALL JUNCTION BOXES AND DEVICES SHALL BE CLEARLY IDENTIFIED BY MEANS OF
"EZ" NUMBERING TAGS OR EQUIVALENT, TO IDENTIFY THE CIRCUIT NUMBER OR RELAY SUPPLYING THE
CONDUCTOR.  ALL JUNCTION BOXES SHALL BE LABELED PER SPECIFICATIONS.
31. ALL SURFACE MOUNTED POWER AND SIGNAL BOXES IN FINISHED AREAS SHALL BE "WIREMOLD" TYPE,
WITH MATCHING RACEWAYS.  SURFACE MOUNTED STEEL JUNCTION BOXES AND/OR EMT ARE NOT
ACCEPTABLE.
32. ALL LOCATIONS OF BARE METAL SURFACE MOUNTED CONDUIT, BOXES, PANELBOARDS, AND RELATED
FITTINGS OR ACCESSORIES INSTALLED IN FINISHED AREAS (BOTH INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR) SHALL
BE FINISH PAINTED TO MATCH THE SURFACE TO WHICH THEY ARE MOUNTED TO (AFTER
INSTALLATION).  PAINTING SHALL INCLUDE DIFFERENT COLORS AS REQUIRED TO MATCH
SURROUNDING CONDITIONS OR OTHER BUILDING FEATURES TO WHICH THE EQUIPMENT IS ATTACHED
AND VISIBLE. VERIFY EXACT JUNCTION BOX LOCATION(S) AND ROUTING OF EXPOSED RACEWAYS
WITH THE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN.
33. PROVIDE A BLANK COVER PLATE (COLOR TO MATCH ADJACENT DEVICES OR AS SPECIFICALLY CALLED
FOR IN SPECIFICATIONS) FOR ALL JUNCTION BOXES (NEW AND EXISTING) ON THE PROJECT WHEN NO
DEVICE IS INSTALLED.
34. FOR OUTDOOR 15 AND 20-AMPERE, 125 AND 250-VOLT RECEPTACLES: RECEPTACLES LOCATED IN
"WET" LOCATIONS SHALL HAVE "IN-USE" TYPE WEATHERPROOF COVER PLATES PROVIDED AND
INSTALLED; RECEPTACLES LOCATED IN "DAMP" LOCATIONS SHALL HAVE "IN-USE" TYPE
WEATHERPROOF COVER PLATES IN LOCATIONS DEEMED TO BE "IN-USE" WITH CORD AND PLUG
ATTACHED.
35. WHEN SERIES RATING IS USED ON ANY CIRCUIT BREAKER ON THIS PROJECT PROVIDE A FIELD
MARKING PER CEC 110-22 ON THE EQUIPMENT COVER THAT IS VISIBLE TO MAINTENANCE PERSONNEL
INDICATING THAT THE BREAKER HAS BEEN APPLIED WITH A SERIES COMBINATION RATING.
36. ALL RECEPTACLES IN LOCATIONS IDENTIFIED IN NEC 406.12 (I.E. DWELLING UNITS, HOTEL/MOTEL
GUEST ROOMS, CHILD CARE, PRESCHOOL, K-12 SCHOOLS, BUSINESS OFFICE COMMON AREAS, IN
CLINICS. MEDICAL AND OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, ASSEMBLY AREA COMMON AREAS, DORMITORY
UNITS, AND ASSISTED LIVING UNITS) SHALL BE TAMPER RESISTANT.
WEATHERPROOF FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HORN, UP 90" U.O.N.
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HVAC DUCT MOUNTED SMOKE DETECTOR. COORDINATE
WITH MECHANICAL FOR SUPPLY, INSTALL AND COMPLETE CONNECTION
(INCLUDING CONTROL OF HVAC EQUIPMENT) - SEE SPECIFICATIONS
FIRE ALARM ANNUNCIATOR PANEL
FIRE ALARM CONTROL PANEL
FIRE SMOKE DAMPER BY MECHANICAL. COORDINATE WITH MECHANICAL FOR
MONITORING TO FIRE ALARM SYSTEM (INCLUDING SMOKE DETECTOR
PROVISIONS).  CONTROL OF DAMPER TO BE BY MECHANICAL, U.O.N.  PROVIDE
TOGGLE TYPE DISCONNECT SWITCH
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM END-OF-LINE RESISTOR
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM MAGNETIC DOOR HOLD-OPEN
POST INDICATING VALVE. PROVIDE MONITOR MODULE. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM MONITOR MODULE
110
COMBINED VOICE/DATA OUTLET, MOUNTED ABOVE COUNTER U.O.N.
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPEAKER/STROBE, UP 80" U.O.N.  NUMBER ADJACENT
INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
20A 3PG 125V DOUBLE DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, MOUNTED ABOVE COUNTER, U.O.N.
20A 3PG 125V DOUBLE DUPLEX RECEPTACLE, UP 18" U.O.N.
WALL-MOUNTED BEAM SMOKE DETECTOR - TRANSMITTING UNIT; MOUNT
18" BELOW CEILING LEVEL, U.O.N.
WALL-MOUNTED BEAM SMOKE DETECTOR - RECEIVING UNIT; MOUNT IN
EXACT HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL ALIGNMENT WITH CORRESPONDING
TRANSMITTING UNIT
CEILING-MOUNTED BEAM SMOKE DETECTOR - TRANSMITTING UNIT
CEILING-MOUNTED BEAM SMOKE DETECTOR - RECEIVING UNIT; MOUNT IN
EXACT HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL ALIGNMENT WITH CORRESPONDING
TRANSMITTING UNIT
CROSSMARKS INDICATE QUANTITY OF #12 CONDUCTORS PLUS PARITY SIZED
GROUND CONDUCTOR, NO HASHMARKS INDICATES (2) #12 CONDUCTORS PLUS
PARITY SIZED GROUND CONDUCTOR, U.O.N.
GROUND WIRE
B
B
B
B
FACP
FAAP
FSD
FLUSH WALL MOUNTED INDOOR PUBLIC ADDRESS SPEAKER & SIGNAL SYSTEM
CLOCK, UP 96" U.O.N.
1.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY IN THE FIELD ALL LINES, LEVELS, DIMENSIONS AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS.  THE INFORMATION ON THE DRAWINGS REGARDING EXISTING
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND BRANCH CIRCUITS IS THE RESULT OF FIELD SURVEY AND IS
ACCURATE TO THE BEST OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.  IT IS INTENDED, HOWEVER, AS A GUIDE FOR
USE IN VERIFICATION ONLY.
2.
ANY EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT IN THE AREA OF NEW CONSTRUCTION NOT SHOWN ON
THE EXISTING PLANS SHALL BE DOCUMENTED AND SUBMITTED TO THE ENGINEER FOR
DETERMINATION OF ACTION REQUIRED.
3.
WHEREVER THE REMOVAL OF EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT IS CALLED FOR AND ALL
EQUIPMENT ON A PARTICULAR BRANCH CIRCUIT IS TO BE REMOVED, ALL CONDUIT AND WIRE
BACK TO THE PANEL SHALL BE ENTIRELY REMOVED AND THE CIRCUIT IN PANEL SHALL BE
MARKED "SPARE".  THIS APPLIES TO SIGNAL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT,
CONDUIT, AND WIRE AS WELL.
4.
WHEREVER THE REMOVAL OF EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT IS CALLED FOR AND ALL
EQUIPMENT ON A PARTICULAR BRANCH CIRCUIT IS NOT TO BE REMOVED, THE CIRCUIT SHALL
BE MAINTAINED CONTINUOUS TO THE EXISTING EQUIPMENT IN USE WITH MINIMUM
INTERRUPTIONS OF POWER.  THIS APPLIES TO SIGNAL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
EQUIPMENT, CONDUIT, AND WIRE AS WELL.
5.
WHENEVER THE REMOVAL OF EXISTING CONSTRUCTION REVEALS ELECTRICAL WORK THAT IS
TO REMAIN, BUT IS IN CONFLICT WITH NEW CONSTRUCTION, RELOCATE THE EXISTING
ELECTRICAL WORK AS NECESSARY TO AVOID ANY CONFLICT.   RELOCATION WORK SHALL BE
DONE TO MINIMIZE ANY INTERRUPTIONS OF POWER.
6.
CARE SHALL BE TAKEN IN ORDER TO IDENTIFY AND PROTECT ALL EXISTING ELECTRICAL WORK
THAT IS TO REMAIN.
7.
ENSURE RECONNECTION OF EXISTING DEVICES WHOSE CIRCUITS HAVE BEEN INTERRUPTED
BY DEMOLITION BY PROVIDING NEW CONNECTION TO ANOTHER EXISTING TO REMAIN DEVICE
OR PANEL.
8.
ALL EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT SHOWN ON THE PLANS FOR NEW WORK ARE THOSE
WHICH ARE TO BE REUSED DURING SOME PHASE OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION OR REQUIRE
SOME SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS.
9.
WHENEVER THE REMOVAL OF EXISTING ELECTRICAL PANELBOARDS ARE CALLED FOR AND ALL
EXISTING BRANCH CIRCUITS ARE NOT TO BE REMOVED, THE EXISTING BRANCH CIRCUITS
SHALL BE CONNECTED TO OTHER EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT OR PANELS STILL IN USE
WITH MINIMUM INTERRUPTIONS OF POWER.  ALSO, IF REQUIRED, THESE SAME BRANCH
CIRCUITS SHALL BE RECONNECTED TO RELOCATED EXISTING OR NEW PANELBOARDS AS PART
OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION.  THIS APPLIES TO SIGNAL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
EQUIPMENT, CONDUIT AND WIRE AS WELL.
10. THE ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR SHALL REVISE EXISTING PANEL SCHEDULES TO CORRESPOND
TO ACTUAL CONDITIONS AFTER ALL DEMOLITION AND NEW WORK IS COMPLETED.
11. REMOVE ALL ABANDONED CONDUIT AND WIRE ABOVE CEILINGS.
12. WHEN ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT OR DEVICE IS REMOVED FROM AN EXISTING WALL OR CEILING
WHICH IS TO REMAIN, PATCH ABANDONED OPENINGS TO MATCH EXISTING FINISH.
13. IN GENERAL, THE DEMOLITION PLANS SHOW ALL EXISTING EQUIPMENT THAT IS TO BE
REMOVED UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.  HOWEVER, ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, WHETHER
SHOWN ON THIS DRAWING OR NOT, WHERE LOCATED IN THE AREA SCHEDULED TO BE
DEMOLISHED, SHALL BE REMOVED COMPLETELY (INCLUDING CONDUIT AND WIRES BACK TO
THE LAST REMAINING FIXTURE, OUTLET, DEVICE, ETC.) UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
COORDINATE DEMOLITION WORK WITH ARCHITECT AND GENERAL CONTRACTOR.
14. EXISTING CONDUIT FEEDS UP THROUGH FLOOR SHALL BE CUT OFF AND PLUGGED FLUSH WITH
FLOOR WHERE EXISTING WALLS, ETC., ARE REMOVED.  REMOVE CONDUCTORS FROM THE
POINT BACK TO LAST OUTLET REMAINING IN SERVICE.
15. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THIS CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN CONTINUITY OF ALL
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. REMAINING IN OPERATION WHICH IS BEING FED BY
AN ABANDONED OUTLET.  MAINTAINING CONTINUITY SHALL CONSIST OF REROUTING OF
CONDUIT, WIRE, ETC. AS REQUIRED.
16. IT SHALL BE THIS CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING
CIRCUITS AND ADJUST CIRCUIT NUMBERS ACCORDING TO EXISTING CONDITIONS IF
REQUIRED
17. THE ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH THE OWNER PRIOR TO REMOVAL OF
EXISTING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND TURN OVER REMOVED EQUIPMENT THAT THE OWNER
REQUESTS, IN AS-FOUND CONDITION.  EQUIPMENT THAT IS TO BE TURNED OVER SHALL BE
BOXED AND TAGGED TO IDENTIFY THE SPECIFIC EQUIPMENT.  EQUIPMENT TO BE
TEMPORARILY REMOVED DUE TO THE CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE CLEANED AND RE-INSTALLED
IN ITS ORIGINAL CONDITION OR AS REQUIRED.
18. WHERE EXISTING WALLS HAVE BEEN REMOVED, AND THERE ARE EXISTING CONDUIT FEEDS
WHICH HAVE BEEN CUT OFF AND CAPPED FLUSH WITH THE FLOOR, IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S
RESPONSIBILITY TO IDENTIFY AND DIMENSION ALL SUCH CONDUITS ON THE "AS-BUILT"
DRAWINGS.
19. IF ANY EQUIPMENT THAT IS SCHEDULED TO REMAIN IN OPERATION IS DAMAGED BY THE
CONTRACTOR, IT SHALL BE REPLACED TO ITS ORIGINAL CONDITION SATISFACTORY TO THE
OWNER AT CONTRACTOR'S EXPENSE.
E  
P
OCCUPANCY SENSOR POWER PACK MOUNTED IN CONCEALED ACCESSIBLE
LOCATION
CEILING MOUNTED LINE VOLTAGE DUAL TECHNOLOGY OCCUPANCY SENSOR
WALL MOUNTED DUAL TECHNOLOGY DIGITAL OCCUPANCY SENSOR
b
a
WALL MOUNTED DUAL TECHNOLOGY OCCUPANCY SENSOR; UP 48" U.O.N.;
SINGLE OR DUAL AS NOTED BY LETTERS ADJACENT.  SET TO FIXED 20 MINUTE
TIME DELAY AND MAX SENSITIVITY
P
SINGLE ZONE SWITCHING OR DIMMING CLOSED LOOP DIGITAL DAYLIGHTING
SENSOR; NOTATIONS ADJACENT IDENTIFY DAYLIGHT ZONES ASSIGNED TO THE
DEVICE.  VERIFY EXACT LOCATION PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN
b
a
WALL MOUNTED SWITCH TYPE INFRARED OCCUPANCY SENSOR; UP 48" U.O.N.;
SINGLE OR DUAL AS NOTED BY LETTERS ADJACENT.  SET TO FIXED 20 MINUTE
TIME DELAY AND MAX SENSITIVITY
EC
EMERGENCY LIGHTING CONTROL MODULE
DAYLIGHT CONTROL PHOTOCELL - BRACKET MOUNTED; NOTATIONS ADJACENT
IDENTIFY DAYLIGHT ZONES ASSIGNED TO THE DEVICE.  VERIFY EXACT
LOCATION PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN
P
3
E-6
GENERAL NOTES
SYMBOLS LIST
SYMBOLS LIST
SYMBOLS LIST
GENERAL DEMOLITION NOTES
ABBREVIATIONS
LIST OF DRAWINGS
CEILING MOUNTED DUAL TECHNOLOGY DIGITAL OCCUPANCY SENSOR
ALL SWITCH AND CONTROL MOUNTING HEIGHTS OF 48" SHALL BE TO TOP OF THE DEVICE BOX.  ALL
RECEPTACLES WITH MOUNTING HEIGHT OF UP TO 18" SHALL BE NO LOWER THAN 15" TO BOTTOM OF
THE DEVICE BOX, TYPICAL, U.O.N.
G
J
J
VARIABLE FREQUENCY DRIVE, FURNISHED BY MECHANICAL, INSTALLED &
CONNECTED COMPLETE BY ELECTRICAL
PC
PLUG LOAD ROOM CONTROLLER
S
WALL MOUNTED VIDEO OUTLET, UP 18" U.O.N.
TV
WALL MOUNTED SIGNAL SYSTEM CLOCK, UP 96" U.O.N.
FLUSH CEILING MOUNTED INDOOR PUBLIC ADDRESS SPEAKER
S
FLUSH WALL MOUNTED OUTDOOR WEATHERPROOF PUBLIC ADDRESS SPEAKER
S
FLUSH WALL MOUNTED INDOOR PUBLIC ADDRESS SPEAKER, UP 96" U.O.N.
S
w
H
F
S
E
S
D
M
C
H
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPEAKER, UP 90" U.O.N.
WEATHERPROOF FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPEAKER, UP 90" U.O.N.
WALL MOUNTED DIGITAL DUAL TECHNOLOGY DIMMING OCCUPANCY SENSOR
SWITCH; UP 48" U.O.N.
NB
NETWORK BRIDGE
E0.01
SYMBOLS LIST, GENERAL NOTES & LIST OF DRAWINGS
E0.02
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
E1.10
SITE PLAN - LIGHTING
E2.10
FLOOR PLAN - LIGHTING
E7.10
DETAILS
E8.10
SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC REPORT
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM CEILING MOUNTED AIR SAMPLING PORT
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM CEILING MOUNTED CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTOR WITH
SOUNDER BASE
CO
AA1
INDICATES LUMINAIRE TYPE, SEE LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
OS
DS
OSD
IR
ISOLATED RELAY INTERFACE
SINGLE OR MULTI-ZONE SWITCHING OR DIMMING OPEN LOOP DIGITAL
DAYLIGHTING SENSOR; NOTATIONS ADJACENT IDENTIFY DAYLIGHT ZONES
ASSIGNED TO THE DEVICE.  VERIFY EXACT LOCATION PRIOR TO ROUGH-IN
P
Z3,Z4
WALL MOUNTED SINGLE OR MULTI-ZONE DIGITAL DIMMER SWITCH, UP 48"
U.O.N.; LOWER CASE LETTERS ADJACENT INDICATE RESPECTIVE ZONES TO BE
SIMULTANEOUSLY MANUALLY CONTROLLED; NUMERAL DESIGNATES NUMBER OF
ZONES ASSIGNED TO THE DEVICE
D a,b
2
RECESSED OR SURFACE MOUNTED LINEAR WALLWASH LUMINAIRE. UNSHADED
SIDE INDICATES DIRECTION OF WALL TO BE ILLUMINATED
STEPLIGHT RECESSED FLUSH IN WALL
POLE ARM-MOUNTED AREA LUMINAIRE; ARROW INDICATES DIRECTION OF LIGHT
DISTRIBUTION WHEN NOT PARALLEL TO ARM ORIENTATION
POLE ARM-MOUNTED PEDESTRIAN-SCALE WALKWAY OR AREA LUMINAIRE;
ARROW INDICATES DIRECTION OF LIGHT DISTRIBUTION
POST-TOP PEDESTRIAN-SCALE AREA LUMINAIRE; ARROW INDICATES DIRECTION
OF LIGHT DISTRIBUTION
BOLLARD LUMINAIRE; ARROW INDICATES DIRECTION OF LIGHT DISTRIBUTION
ALL EXTERIOR LUMINAIRES SPECIFIED IN THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS COMPLY
WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE AND THE CALIFORNIA
GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE, SECTION A5.106.8 LIGHT POLLUTION
REDUCTION.  EXTERIOR LUMINAIRES COMPLY WITH BACKLIGHT, UPLIGHT, AND
GLARE (BUG) RATINGS AS DEFINED IN IESNA TM-15-11 AND BUG RATINGS DO NOT
EXCEED THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE RATINGS FOR THIS PROJECT.
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
COMBINED TELEPHONE/DATA OUTLET, UP 18" U.O.N.
Z2
INDICATES DAYLIGHT ZONE CONTROLLED VIA PHOTOCELL
FLUSH IN-GROUND LANDSCAPE OR BUILDING UPLIGHT, NON-ADJUSTABLE AIMING
FLUSH IN-GROUND LANDSCAPE OR BUILDING UPLIGHT WITH ADJUSTABLE AIMING
FEATURE; ARROW INDICATES AIMING DIRECTION
FLUSH IN-GROUND WALLWASH UPLIGHT; OPEN AREA INDICATES DIRECTION OF
ILLUMINATION
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPEAKER/STROBE, CEILING MOUNTED.  NUMBER ADJACENT
INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM SPEAKER, CEILING MOUNTED
F
F
S
H
V
V
S
110
110
110
110
S
S
FS
TS
PIV
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM HORN/STROBE, CEILING MOUNTED.  NUMBER ADJACENT
INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
F
110
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM STROBE, CEILING MOUNTED.  NUMBER ADJACENT
INDICATES CANDELA VALUE FOR STROBE
S
110
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM RELAY MODULE
R
Z1
Z1
DECORATIVE CEILING MOUNTED LUMINAIRE
WALL MOUNTED ELECTROMAGNETIC DOOR HOLD-OPEN DEVICE, FURNISHED BY
DIV. 8, INSTALLED & CONNECTED COMPLETE TO FIRE ALARM SYSTEM BY DIV. 28
D
ROOM CONTROLLER
RC 2
ADJACENT NUMERAL REFERS TO THE NUMBER OF ZONES TO BE CONTROLLED.
VENDOR OR CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE QUANTITY OF ROOM CONTROLLERS
REQUIRED FOR THE NUMBER OF CONTROLLED ZONES.
AFF
ABOVE FINISHED FLOOR
AFG
ABOVE FINISHED GRADE
C
CONDUIT
CATV
CABLE TV
CO
CONDUIT ONLY
CU
COPPER
E.C. 
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR
E
EMERGENCY LIGHT FIXTURE ON EMERGENCY GENERATOR OR INVERTER, 
SWITCHABLE, U.O.N.
EM
EMERGENCY LIGHT FIXTURE WITH BATTERY PACK, SWITCHABLE
EMS
ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
(E) 
EXISTING
EQPT
EQUIPMENT
(ER) 
EXISTING EQUIPMENT TO BE RELOCATED
(EX) 
EXISTING EQUIPMENT TO BE DISCONNECTED AND REMOVED
EXT
EXTERIOR
FMC
FLEXIBLE METALLIC CONDUIT
FTL
FEED THROUGH LUGS
GFI 
GROUND FAULT CIRCUIT INTERRUPTING TYPE RECEPTACLE
IDF
INTERMEDIATE DISTRIBUTION FRAME
L
LOCKABLE
LV
LOW VOLTAGE
MCB
MAIN CIRCUIT BREAKER
MDF
MAIN DISTRIBUTION FRAME
MFR
MANUFACTURER
MLO
MAIN LUGS ONLY
MTD
MOUNTED
(N) 
NEW
N.E.C. 
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
NEU
NEUTRAL
N.I.E.C. 
NOT IN ELECTRICAL CONTRACT
O.A.H. 
OVERALL HEIGHT
O.F.C.I. 
OWNER FURNISHED, CONTRACTOR INSTALLED
P
INDICATES FIXTURES ON PHOTOCELL CONTROL
PA
PUBLIC ADDRESS
PNL
PANEL
S.A.D. 
SEE  ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
STC
SIGNAL TERMINAL CABINET
TC
INDICATES FIXTURES ON TIMECLOCK CONTROL
TELE
TELEPHONE
TVSS
TRANSIENT VOLTAGE SURGE SUPPRESSION
U.O.N. 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
VAV
VAV BOX, SEE  MECHANICAL DIVISION DRAWINGS FOR LOCATIONS.  PROVIDE 
TOGGLE TYPE DISCONNECT SWITCH
WP
WEATHER PROOF, NEMA 3R
WPIU
WEATHER PROOF WHILE IN USE
(2)
NUMBER INDICATES QUANTITY
HALF CONTROLLED AND IDENTIFIED DUPLEX RECEPTACLE WIRED THROUGH LOCAL
PLUG-LOAD CONTROLLER FOR ONE HALF OF DUPLEX, UP 18” U.O.N.
MASTER WIRELESS BORDER ROUTER & NB - SWITCH IN NETWORK CABINET; SEE
DETAILS FOR TYPE
MBR
SECONDARY  WIRELESS BORDER ROUTER
BR 1
VFD
LOW VOLTAGE COLD TEMPERATURE PIR OCCUPANCY SENSOR
$m
LINE VOLTAGE MOTOR RATED TOGGLE SWITCH INSTALLED AT EQPT SHOWN
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT WITH DECORATIVE TRIM
1
NUMBERED SHEET NOTE THAT REFERS TO TYPICAL ITEMS ON SHEET
2
WIRELESS ACCESS POINT (WAP) W/CAT6 CABLE/JACKS AT CEILING
WAP
DIMMER SWITCH
WIRELESS HUB
H
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
SYMBOLS LIST,
GENERAL NOTES &
LIST OF DRAWINGS
E0.01

--- page 91 ---
AA1
PENDANT
PENDANT MOUNTED DIRECT/INDIRECT
LUMINAIRE. EXTRUDED ALUMINUM BODY
WITH FLAT DIECAST ALUMINUM END CAPS.
WIDESPREAD UPLIGHT OPTIC, FLUSH
DOWNLIGHT DIFFUSER. FULLY ADJUSTABLE
50" AIRCRAFT CABLE SUSPENSION.
STANDARD FINISH AS SELECTED BY
ARCHITECT. 2.5"W X 2.5"H X 10' L.
WEIGHT: 2.3 LBS/FT.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-10'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOL
TAGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE
-(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
77W
AA2
PENDANT
SIMILAR TO TYPE AA1 EXCEPT WITH 12'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-12'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOL
TAGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE
-(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
92W
AA3
PENDANT
SIMILAR TO TYPE AA1 EXCEPT WITH 14'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-14'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOL
TAGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE
-(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
107W
AA4
PENDANT
SIMILAR TO TYPE AA1 EXCEPT WITH 18'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-18'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOL
TAGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE
-(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
138W
AA5
PENDANT
SIMILAR TO TYPE AA1 EXCEPT WITH 6'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-6'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOLT
AGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE-
(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
46W
AA6
PENDANT
SIMILAR TO TYPE AA1 EXCEPT WITH 4'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-P-ID-4'-B-S-835-WSO-F-(VOLT
AGE)-SC-FC-1%-FA50-(CEILING)-FE-
(FINISH)
3500K LED
80 CRI
3812 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
31W
AB1
SURFACE
22" UNDERCABINET LIGHT WITH EXTRUDED
ALUMINUM CONSTRUCTION HOUSING,
POLYCARBONATE DIFFUSER. 1.13" DEPTH.
COORDINATE CASEWORK FASCIA DEPTH TO
FULLY CONCEAL THE LUMINAIRE. WHITE
FINISH. PROVIDE DIRECT WIRE MODULE.
JUNO LIGHTING
UPLD-22IN-SWW4-90CRI-WH
3500K LED
80 CRI
886 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
11W
AB2
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE AB1 EXCEPT 14" LENGTH.
JUNO LIGHTING
UPLD-14IN-SWW4-90CRI-WH
3500K LED
80 CRI
471 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
7W
AC1
SURFACE
SURFACE MOUNTED VANITY LUMINAIRE.
EXTRUDED ALUMINUM HOUSING. DOME
SHAPED ACRYLIC DIFFUSER. DIE CAST
ALUMINUM END CAPS. FINISH AS SELECTED
BY ARCHITECT. 3"H X 3.88"D X 8'L.
WEIGHT: 2 LBS/FT.
LITECONTROL
67L-W-D-8'-8-DM-(FINISH)-35K-D0
80-NDM-1C-UNV
3500K LED
80 CRI
3200 LM/4'
NON-DIMMING
UNV
48W
AC2
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE AC1 EXCEPT 6' LENGTH.
LITECONTROL
67L-W-D-6'-6-DM-(FINISH)-35K-D0
80-NDM-1C-UNV
3500K LED
80 CRI
3200 LM/4'
NON-DIMMING
UNV
36W
AC3
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE AC1 EXCEPT 10' LENGTH.
LITECONTROL
67L-W-D-10'-5-DM-(FINISH)-35K-D
080-NDM-1C-UNV
3500K LED
80 CRI
3200 LM/4'
NON-DIMMING
UNV
60W
AC4
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE AC1 EXCEPT 2' LENGTH.
LITECONTROL
67L-W-D-2'-2-DM-(FINISH)-35K-D0
80-NDM-1C-UNV
3500K LED
80 CRI
3200 LM/4'
NON-DIMMING
UNV
12W
AD1
RECESSED
RECESSED WALLWASHER DOWNLIGHT WITH
FORMED STEEL CONSTRUCTION HOUSING
AND 4" SQUARE APERTURE WITH
MATCHING TRIM.
USAI LIGHTING
B4SW-16C3-35KS-W2-WH
3500K LED
80 CRI
1007 LM
0-10V DIMMING
UNV
16W
AE1
RECESSED
4' RECESSED LINEAR DOWNLIGHT WITH
EXTRUDED ALUMINUM CONSTRUCTION
HOUSING. 2.25" APERTURE WITH FLUSH
OPAL WHITE DIFFUSER. WHITE, BLACK, OR
SATIN ALUMINUM FLANGE FINISH TO BE
DETERMINED BY THE ARCHITECT.
WEIGHT: 2.3 LBS/FT.
FINELITE
HP-X-R-D-4'-OUTPUT-835-F-120-SC
-FC-1%-CEILING-FE-FINISH
3500K LED
80 CRI
 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
W
AE2
RECESSED
SIMILAR TO TYPE AE1 EXCEPT WITH 10'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-R-D-10'-OUTPUT-835-F-120-S
C-FC-1%-CEILING-FE-FINISH
3500K LED
80 CRI
 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
W
AE3
RECESSED
SIMILAR TO TYPE AE1 EXCEPT WITH 12'
LENGTH.
FINELITE
HP-X-R-D-12'-OUTPUT-835-F-120-S
C-FC-1%-CEILING-FE-FINISH
3500K LED
80 CRI
 LM/4'
0-10V DIMMING
(100% - 1%)
120V
W
AF1
RECESSED
RECESSED 1X4 BACKLIT PANEL WITH
ALUMINUM FRAME AND DIE-FORMED
STEEL HOUSING. BACKLIT PMMA LENS WITH
PS DIFFUSER. MATTE WHITE POLYESTER
POWDER COAT PAINTED FRAME. 1.75"
DEPTH.
H.E. WILLIAMS
BP-1-4-LS-8-CS-DIM-UNV
3500K LED
80 CRI
3002 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
25W
BA3H
POLE
MOUNTED
POLE MOUNTED AREA LIGHT WITH 20"
DIAMETER DIE CAST ALUMINUM HOUSING,
IES TYPE III OPTICAL DISTRIBUTION PATTERN
WITH BACKLIGHT CONTROL, 14' OVERALL
HEIGHT WITH 12'-6" STRAIGHT ROUND
ALUMINUM POLE WITH HANDHOLE AND
ROUND BASE COVER. LENS MOUNTED
OCCUPANCY SENSOR. POWDER COATED
FINISH TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
ARCHITECT.
BUG RATING: B0-U0-G1
GARDCO LIGHTING
PPT-P-A02-830-BLC-T3-UNV-010V-
BL50L2-FINISH
POLE
SRA-CA-4-125-12.5'-T2D4L-FINISH
3000K LED
80 CRI
2237 LM
BI-LEVEL WITH
INTEGRAL
OCCUPANCY
SENSOR
UNV
20W
BA4H
POLE
MOUNTED
SIMILAR TO TYPE BA2H EXCEPT WITH IES
TYPE IV OPTICAL DISTRIBUTION.
GARDCO LIGHTING
PPT-P-A02-830-T4M-HIS-T3-UNV-0
10V-BL50L2-FINISH
POLE
SRA-CA-4-125-12.5'-T2D4L-FINISH
3000K LED
80 CRI
1972 LM
BI-LEVEL WITH
INTEGRAL
OCCUPANCY
SENSOR
UNV
20W
BA5
POLE
MOUNTED
SIMILAR TO TYPE BA2H EXCEPT WITH IES
TYPE V OPTICAL DISTRIBUTION AND NO
HOUSE SIDE SHIELD.
GARDCO LIGHTING
PPT-P-A02-830-T5M-T3-UNV-010V-
BL50L2-FINISH
POLE
SRA-CA-4-125-12.5'-T2D4L-FINISH
3000K LED
80 CRI
3245 LM
BI-LEVEL WITH
INTEGRAL
OCCUPANCY
SENSOR
UNV
20W
BB1
SURFACE
SURFACE WALL MOUNTED DOWNLIGHT
LUMINAIRE WITH DIE CAST ALUMINUM
CONSTRUCTION, PRE-PAINT TREATMENT,
ONE PIECE SILICONE GASKETING, TGIC
POLYESTER POWDER COAT PAINTED FINISH.
FULL CUTOFF OPTICS WITH REGRESSED
LENS. WIDE HORIZONTAL DISTRIBUTION.
8.11"W X 5"D X 8"H. STANDARD FACTORY
FINISH TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
ARCHITECT.
LIGMAN LIGHTING
ULEW-30011-14W-T1-W30-FINISH-
120/277V
3000K LED
80 CRI
1376 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
14W
BB3
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE BB1 EXCEPT WITH TYPE III
OPTICAL DISTRIBUTION.
LIGMAN LIGHTING
ULEW-30011-14W-T3-W30-FINISH-
120/277V
3000K LED
80 CRI
1376 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
14W
BB4
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE BB3 EXCEPT WITH IES TYPE
IV OPTICAL DISTRIBUTION.
LIGMAN LIGHTING
ULEW-30011-14W-T4-W30-FINISH-
120/277V
3000K LED
80 CRI
1376 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
14W
BB5
SURFACE
SIMILAR TO TYPE BB4 EXCEPT SMALLER SIZE
WITH LOWER LUMEN OUTPUT.
LIGMAN LIGHTING
ULEW-30001-5.5W-T4-W30-FINISH
-120/277V
3000K LED
80 CRI
570 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
5.5W
BD1
SURFACE
SURFACE MOUNTED 6" SQUARE
DOWNLIGHT WITH ONE PIECE PLASTIC
FLANGE, HIGH TRANSMITTANCE LENS,
WHITE ALUMINUM, OR BLACK FINISH TO BE
DETERMINED BY THE ARCHITECT.
LIGHTOLIER
S6S-8-30K-10-FINISH-Z10U
3000K LED
80 CRI
1000 LM
NON-DIMMING
UNV
15W
TYPE
MOUNTING
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
CATALOG #
LIGHT SOURCE
POWER SUPPLY
VOLTS
INPUT
WATTS
TYPE
MOUNTING
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
CATALOG #
LIGHT SOURCE
POWER SUPPLY
VOLTS
INPUT
WATTS
BE1
CATENARY
CABLE SUSPENDED EXTERIOR LED STRING
LIGHTS; LOW VOLTAGE HARD-WIRED; BLACK
OR WHITE POWER WIRE TO BE DETERMINED
BY THE ARCHITECT. WHITE LEDS ENCLOSED
IN FROSTED UV STABILIZED
POLYCARBONATE GLOBE; 24" LAMP
SPACING. 7" DIAMETER X 3" H CONICAL
BLACK SHADE TO BLOCK UPLIGHT. LENGTHS
ARE ROUGHLY INDICATED ON LIGHTING
PLANS; CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD CONFIRM
EXACT STRING LIGHT AND FEED CABLE
LENGTH REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO RELEASE
OF ORDER. PROVIDE ALL NECESSARY
COMPONENTS FOR A COMPLETE AND
OPERABLE LED STRING LIGHTING SYSTEM.
BUG RATING: B0-U0-G0
PRIMUS LIGHTING
DSW-24"-120-S14-27/150-DSC7-PC
B
2700K LED
80 CRI
150 LM EACH
NON-DIMMING
120V
15W
BF1
TRELLIS
LINEAR LED DOWNLIGHT WITH EXTRUDED
ALUMINUM CONSTRUCTION CHANNEL,
POLYURETHANE ENCAPSULATED LED BOARD
WITH 120 DEGREE DISTRIBUTION. PROVIDE
ADJUSTABLE ANGLE BRACKET. BLACK OR
BRONZE CHANNEL FINISH TO BE
DETERMINED BY THE ARCHITECT.
QTRAN LIGHTING
VERS-06-SW-3.0HE-30-WET-ENC/T
L-N/A-WIRE IN/OUT-CONN/WIRE
IN-CLS-STD-STD-BK-WIRE
TYPE-CC-FINISH-36"-O
Q-ANGLE
3000K LED
80 CRI
462 LM
NON-DIMMING
REMOTE POWER
SUPPLY
UNV
5W
END OF LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
LUMINAIRE
SCHEDULE
E0.02
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
BE1
BA2H/BA3H/BA4H/BA5
BB3/BB4
BF1
BE1
BF1

--- page 92 ---
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
253 SF
MECHANICAL WELL
201
BA3H
BA3H
BA3H
BE1
BE1
BE1
BA5
BA3H
1
1
1
2
TYPICAL
3
3
4
4
3
BA4H
3
BA3H
3
B
NUMBERED SHEET NOTES
PROVIDE ADDITIVE ALTERNATE FOR STRING LIGHTS AT THE
"GROVE". SEE DETAIL 1/E7.10.
SEE SHEET E2.10 FOR EXTERIOR BUILDING MOUNTED LIGHTING.
SEE DETAIL 2/E7.10.
SEE DETAIL 3/E7.10.
1
2
3
4
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
SITE PLAN -
LIGHTING
E1.10
1
E1.10
SITE PLAN - LIGHTING
1"   10'-0"
SCALE:
NORTH

--- page 93 ---
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
WH
CLASSROOM 1
108
CLASSROOM 6
106
CLASSROOM 2
109
CLASSROOM 3
111
CLASSROOM 4
112
CLASSROOM 5
114
RECEPTION
101
OFFICE
102
WC
103
WC
107
WC
110
WC
113
+9' - 0"
+9' - 0"
WORKROOM
104
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+9' - 0"
+9' - 0"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
+8' - 2"
SICK AREA
101A
+9' - 0"
IT / STORAGE
115
+9' - 0"
+9' - 0"
BREAKOUT RM
117
WC
116
FIRE RISER
106A
TRASH ENCLOSURE
119
AD1
AA1
AC1
AC3
AC2
AD1
AA3
AA4
AA1
AA2
AA2
AA3
BD1
BD1
AD1
AD1
AE2
AE2
AC4
AA5
AF1
AB1
AB1
AA1
AB1
AB1
AC2
AC2
AA1
AA2
AA2
AC2
AC2
BD1
BB3
BB3
BB1
BB3
BB3
BB4
BB3
BB3
AE1
AE3
BB4
BB3
BB1
BB4
BB4
BB4
AB1
AB2
AB2
AB2
AB2
AB1
AB1
AB2
AB2
BB4
BB3
AA3
AD1
AA1
AA1
AA2
AA2
AD1
AA1
AA1
AA2
AA2
AA1
AA1
AA2
AA2
AE1
AE3
AC2
AF1
1
1
1
1
1
1
BF1
BF1
BF1
BF1
3
TYPICAL
2
2
4
BF1
4
BF1
4
BB5
5
BB1
BD1
AA6
AA6
6
TYPICAL
NUMBERED SHEET NOTES
PROVIDE TWO ALTERNATE PRICING OPTIONS FOR THIS
CLASSROOM:
1.
(12) METALUX ENCOUNTER LED TROFFERS -
22EN-LD2-30-UNV-L835-CD1-U
2.
(12) METALUX LED FLAT PANELS - 22FPS-L2-SCT3-3500K
SEE SHEET E1.10 FOR SITE LIGHTING.
SURFACE MOUNTED TO SIDE OF RAIN CANOPY OR TRELLIS HSS
BEAM.
LUMINAIRES IN TRASH ENCLOSURE SHALL BE LOCALLY
CONTROLLED VIA TIMER.
WALL MOUNTED AT 7'-0" A.F.F. TO THE TOP OF THE LUMINAIRE.
WALL MOUNTED AT 9'-6" A.F.F. TO THE BOTTOM OF THE
LUMINAIRE.
1
2
3
4
5
6
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
FLOOR PLAN -
LIGHTING
E2.10
1
E2.10
FLOOR PLAN - LIGHTING
1/8"   1'-0"
SCALE:
NORTH

--- page 94 ---
POLE BASE AT PLANTING AREA
2
E7.10
SCALE:
NOT TO SCALE
FILE:
L:\DETAILS\LIGHT\POLEBASE\LPOLE028
FINISHED GRADE
POLE BASE COVER
LEVELING GROUT W/
CHAMFERED EDGE
GROUND LUG
8"
ANCHOR BOLTS - VERIFY SIZE
AND MOUNTING TEMPLATE
WITH POLE MANUFACTURER
LUMINAIRE POLE (SEE
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE)
HAND HOLE
BUSH CONDUITS
ALIGN TOP OF CONCRETE BASE
GROUT CAP WITH TOP OF
PAVING, SEE ARCHITECTURAL
OR LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS.
WRAPPED RIGID STEEL
CONDUIT, ELBOW & RISER (ALT.
SCHEDULE 80 PVC.), TYPICAL
PVC CONDUIT TO OTHER
LUMINAIRES, TYPICAL
RIGID TO PVC ADAPTER, TYPICAL
TRIPLE #5 REBAR AT TOP
(MIN. 3" DOWN FROM TOP
OF CONCRETE)
48"
MIN. 3" CLEAR, REBAR TO
EDGE OF CONCRETE, TYP.
18" DIAMETER
(VERIFY WITH SHOP DRAWINGS)
CYLINDRICAL CONCRETE
POLE BASE
#4 REBAR TIES @ 12" O.C.
(4)#5 REBAR VERTICAL TIES
STRING LIGHT POLE BASE AT PLANTING AREA
1
E7.10
SCALE:
NOT TO SCALE
FILE:
L:\DETAILS\LIGHT\POLEBASE\LPOLE028
STRING LIGHT POLE -
HOLOPHANE SITELINK -
SL-A-12-L6J-BP-P01-ABG-
FINISH-E168"Y
FINISHED GRADE
POLE BASE COVER
LEVELING GROUT W/
CHAMFERED EDGE
GROUND LUG
8"
ANCHOR BOLTS - VERIFY SIZE
AND MOUNTING TEMPLATE
WITH POLE MANUFACTURER
HAND HOLE
BUSH CONDUITS
ALIGN TOP OF CONCRETE BASE
GROUT CAP WITH TOP OF
PAVING, SEE ARCHITECTURAL
OR LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS.
WRAPPED RIGID STEEL
CONDUIT, ELBOW & RISER (ALT.
SCHEDULE 80 PVC.), TYPICAL
PVC CONDUIT TO OTHER
LUMINAIRES, TYPICAL
RIGID TO PVC ADAPTER, TYPICAL
TRIPLE #5 REBAR AT TOP
(MIN. 3" DOWN FROM TOP
OF CONCRETE)
54"
MIN. 3" CLEAR, REBAR TO
EDGE OF CONCRETE, TYP.
18" DIAMETER
(VERIFY WITH SHOP DRAWINGS)
CYLINDRICAL CONCRETE
POLE BASE
#4 REBAR TIES @ 12" O.C.
(4)#5 REBAR VERTICAL TIES
18" DIAMETER
(VERIFY WITH SHOP DRAWINGS)
POLE BASE - RAISED
3
E7.10
SCALE:
NOT TO SCALE
FILE:
L:\DETAILS\LIGHT\POLEBASE\LPOLE002
48"
GROUND LUG
POLE BASE COVER
LEVELING GROUT W/45°
CHAMFERED EDGE
ANCHOR BOLTS - VERIFY SIZE
AND MOUNTING TEMPLATE WITH
POLE MANUFACTURER
CURB
BUSH CONDUITS
HAND HOLE
LUMINAIRE POLE (SEE
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE)
30"
CYLINDRICAL CONCRETE
POLE BASE
#4 HORIZONTAL REBAR TIES
@ 12" O.C.
(6) #5 VERTICAL REBARS
TRIPLE #5 TIGHTLY BOUND REBAR
AT TOP (MIN. 3" DOWN FROM TOP
OF CONCRETE TO TOP TIE)
WRAPPED GALVANIZED RIGID
STEEL ELBOW & CONDUIT RISER,
TYPICAL - SEE SPEC'S (STUB-UP)
PVC SCHED. 40 CONDUIT TO OTHER
LUMINAIRES OR HOMERUN, TYPICAL
WRAPPED RIGID STEEL
CONDUIT & WIRES
RIGID TO PVC ADAPTER
MIN. 3" CLEAR, REBAR TO EDGE OF
CONCRETE, TYP.
3"
3"
FINISHED GRADE
8"
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
DETAILS
E7.10

--- page 95 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
#27
#23
#24
#25
#19
#18
LA SALLE DRIVE
#29
#10
#9
#8
#7
#4
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
BD1
BD1
BD1
BB3
BB3
BB1
BB3
BB3
BB4
BB3
BB3
BB4
BB3
BB1
BB4
BB4
BB4
BB4
BB3
BF1
BF1
BF1
BF1
BF1
BF1
BB5
BB1
BD1
BA3H
BA3H
BA3H
BA5
BA3H
3
3
4
4
3
BA4H
3
Calculation Summary
Label
CalcType
Units
Avg
Max
Min
Avg/Min
Max/Min
Garden
Illuminance
Fc
1.69
4.3
0.5
3.38
8.60
Grove
Illuminance
Fc
1.70
4.0
0.5
3.40
8.00
North Walk
Illuminance
Fc
1.26
1.7
0.6
2.10
2.83
Outdoor Area
Illuminance
Fc
1.77
4.2
0.5
3.54
8.40
Parking Area
Illuminance
Fc
1.80
3.2
0.6
3.00
5.33
Play Area
Illuminance
Fc
1.97
4.9
0.8
2.46
6.13
Trash Enclosure
Illuminance
Fc
3.25
3.5
2.9
1.12
1.21
West Walk
Illuminance
Fc
2.59
5.5
0.7
3.70
7.86
0.9
1.6
2.6
4.3
0.6
1.2
2.3
3.9
0.6
1.2
2.2
3.8
0.6
1.2
1.9
2.6
0.7
1.3
1.5
1.5
0.7
1.2
1.4
1.4
0.6
1.2
1.7
2.3
0.5
1.1
2.0
3.5
0.5
1.1
2.1
3.8
0.7
1.4
2.4
4.0
0.7
1.3
1.9
2.6
0.6
1.0
1.3
1.5
1.0
2.0
3.6
4.0
1.1
2.0
3.7
1.1
1.8
2.7
0.6
1.1
1.4
0.6
1.0
1.1
1.0
1.3
1.4
0.5
1.0
1.6
2.5
0.5
1.1
2.0
0.5
1.2
2.1
3.8
1.3
2.1
3.4
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.6
1.4
1.1
0.8
0.6
1.2
2.1
3.6
2.4
3.7
1.4
2.6
4.2
1.5
1.3
2.2
3.4
1.2
1.9
2.8
1.0
1.6
2.4
2.3
1.4
0.9
1.6
2.3
2.2
2.3
2.3
1.7
1.7
1.5
1.6
2.6
3.6
3.2
2.1
1.1
1.0
1.5
1.1
2.5
3.5
3.4
2.3
1.7
1.5
1.7
1.2
1.6
2.5
3.5
3.4
2.3
1.1
1.3
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
1.4
1.7
1.9
0.9
1.2
1.9
2.5
2.4
1.6
1.4
2.5
1.8
1.3
1.0
0.9
1.0
1.5
1.4
1.9
2.6
2.5
1.9
1.4
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.5
1.4
1.1
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.9
1.1
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.7
1.0
1.5
1.9
2.1
2.3
0.8
1.2
1.6
2.0
2.2
2.3
2.2
2.1
0.7
1.2
1.6
1.9
2.2
2.3
2.3
2.2
2.1
2.1
0.6
1.1
1.7
2.0
2.2
2.2
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.9
1.9
2.0
2.0
1.8
1.8
2.0
2.1
2.1
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.8
2.5
1.5
2.4
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.9
2.8
1.4
2.4
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.6
2.0
3.1
1.6
2.4
2.3
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.7
2.2
3.2
1.7
2.3
2.3
2.2
2.0
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.9
2.5
3.2
1.7
2.1
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.6
2.0
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.5
1.6
2.0
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.4
1.7
2.2
2.3
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.4
1.5
2.3
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.2
2.3
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.8
2.5
2.9
1.3
2.3
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.6
2.3
2.9
1.4
2.1
2.2
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.5
2.1
2.9
1.4
1.9
2.0
2.0
1.9
1.9
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.9
2.4
1.2
1.6
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.4
1.6
1.8
0.9
1.2
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.2
2.2
2.1
2.0
1.7
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.3
0.9
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.7
1.8
2.1
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.5
1.7
2.0
2.5
2.7
1.9
1.6
1.4
1.2
1.2
1.3
1.3
1.2
1.2
1.4
1.8
2.4
3.5
3.1
2.2
1.7
1.3
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.3
1.8
2.6
4.0
3.4
2.4
1.6
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.1
1.8
2.6
3.6
4.7
3.1
1.9
1.2
0.9
0.8
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.9
2.4
3.3
4.9
3.4
2.4
1.9
1.6
1.3
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.7
2.0
1.8
2.3
4.2
3.3
2.9
2.6
2.3
1.8
2.4
2.4
2.5
2.4
2.1
2.0
1.5
1.5
3.6
2.8
3.1
3.6
3.3
2.3
2.8
3.1
3.6
3.3
2.5
2.0
1.2
2.6
3.0
2.4
3.0
4.0
3.8
2.5
2.9
3.4
4.2
3.8
2.7
1.9
1.0
2.2
3.3
3.5
3.3
2.9
3.3
3.5
3.3
2.9
2.3
1.5
0.7
1.0
3.9
3.6
3.2
2.4
2.2
2.7
3.4
4.1
4.1
5.2
4.2
3.8
5.5
5.1
1.6
2.2
3.2
3.8
3.6
3.2
3.3
4.0
1.1
0.8
3.9
3.6
2.6
3.1
4.1
3.5
3.8
2.9
2.9
3.0
2.9
2.8
1.4
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.0
1.5
1.1
1.8
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.1
1.0
1.4
1.0
0.8
0.7
BA3H
3
INDICATES LUMINAIRE AREA
OF COVERAGE TYPICAL
B
BE1
BE1
BE1
1
1
1
NUMBERED SHEET NOTES
PROVIDE ADDITIVE ALTERNATE FOR STRING LIGHTS AT THE
"GROVE". SEE DETAIL 1/E7.10.
NOT USED.
SEE DETAIL 2/E7.10.
SEE DETAIL 3/E7.10.
1
2
3
4
110 LINDEN STREET  |  OAKLAND, CA  |  94607
5 1 0 . 8 3 6 . 6 5 9 4  |  s t u d i o b o n d y . c o m
CONSULTANT
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
PROJECT NO.:
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205 | E: careyschool.org
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
FINAL TO BE SUBMITTED
FOR BUILDING PERMIT
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
PLANNING
APPLICATION FOR A
NEW EARLY
CHILDHOOD CENTER
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER
05.09.2025
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR
A NEW EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER - REVISION 2
07.16.2025
A
B
SITE LIGHTING
PHOTOMETRIC
REPORT
E8.10
1
E8.10
SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC REPORT
SCALE:
1"   10'-0"
NORTH
LEGEND
LUMINAIRE CONTRIBUTING TO SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC
CALCULATION
LUMINAIRE AREA OF COVERAGE

--- page 96 ---
27.60.180 QUALIFIED (Q) OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS. 
(a) Q1 (Qualified Overlay District 1)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of property zoned Q1: 
(1) Location of Structures. Permanent structures or improvements, such as parking, 
landscaping or open space may be constructed south of the ramp connecting northbound 
Highway 101 and eastbound Highway 92 only when they are not required to fulfill zoning 
requirements of adjacent properties. 
(2) Access. No additional curb cuts shall be permitted beyond those existing on the 
site as of February 1, 1987. 
(3) Residential Use. Residential use is prohibited. 
(4) Parking. Parking on this site, with the exception of the provisions of Section 
27.60.100 may be used to fulfill parking requirements for adjacent parcels. 
(5) Height Limitation. No structure shall exceed the height of the adjacent elevated 
freeway as measured to the top of the freeway railing. 
(6) Floor Area Ratio. The maximum allowed floor area ratio is 0.5. 
(b) Q2 (Qualified Overlay District 2)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of property zoned Q2: 
(1) Lagoon Access. Public access to and along Marina Lagoon shall be provided, 
improved and maintained consistent with the Shoreline Park Specific Plan and 
requirements of the Landscape Resources Division and Public Works Department. 
(2) Parking. Parking on this site may be used to fulfill parking requirements for 
adjacent parcels. 
(3) Height Limitation. No structure shall exceed the height of the adjacent elevated 
freeway as measured to the top of the roadway railing. 
(4) Recreational vehicle storage facilities may be allowed subject to the approval of 
a special use permit under the provisions of Section 27.64.267 of this title. 
(5) Floor Area Ratio. The maximum allowed floor area ratio is 1.0. 
(c) Q3 (Qualified Overlay District 3)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of property zoned Q3:

--- page 97 ---
(1) Required Yards. A landscaped 30-foot building setback and a 15-foot parking 
setback from the edge of the shoulder of Fashion Island Boulevard shall be provided. All 
landscaping shall be subject to the approval of the Landscape Resources Division. 
(2) Access. No curb cuts shall be permitted from Fashion Island Boulevard. 
(3) Parking. Parking on this site may be used to fulfill parking requirements for 
adjacent parcels. 
(4) Height Limitation. No structure shall exceed the height of the adjacent elevated 
freeway as measured to the top of the roadway railing. 
(5) Recreational vehicle storage facilities may be allowed subject to the approval of 
a special use permit under the provisions of Section 27.64.267 of this title. 
(6) Floor Area Ratio. The maximum allowed floor area ratio is 0.5. 
(d) Q4 (Qualified Overlay District 4)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of property zoned Q4: 
(1) Accessory Use. Parking of passenger automobiles shall be permitted only when 
accessory to abutting nonresidential uses. 
(2) Parking. Parking on the site may be used to fulfill parking requirements for 
adjacent parcels. 
(3) Height Limitation. No structure shall exceed the height of the adjacent elevated 
freeway as measured to the top of the roadway railing. 
(4) Recreational vehicle storage facilities may be allowed subject to the approval of 
a special use permit under the provisions of Section 27.64.267 of this title. 
(5) Floor Area Ratio. The maximum allowed floor area ratio is 1.0. 
(e) Q5 (Qualified Overlay District 5)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of property zoned Q5. Q5 is the portion of the Hillsdale 
Shopping Center on the east and west side of El Camino Real (i.e., Sub-Areas A, B, C and D).

--- page 98 ---
(1) Projects which involve less than 75% demolition and/or expansion and/or 
redevelopment of structures (including parking structures) in Sub-Area A or Sub-Area B or 
Sub-Area C or Sub-Area D, and which require a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
as per Section 27.08.030, will be required to meet the following findings in addition to 
findings in Section 27.08.030(a)(1)—(5): 
(A) The development facilitates the safe and efficient flow of traffic 
balanced with enhanced opportunities for public transit and a safe pedestrian 
environment along and across El Camino Real; 
(B) The development is compatible with existing retail uses, provides 
increased density of development near transit nodes, and contributes to a mix of 
uses along the corridor; 
(C) The development enhances the district's identity as a focal point along 
El Camino Real by providing high-quality architecture, landscaping and signage, 
and promoting pedestrian-oriented activity; 
(D) The development enhances the streetscape with high-quality 
landscaping sidewalks, street furniture, signage, entry features, and in the case of 
Sub-Area A, B, and D, theme intersection improvements at 31st Avenue, and 
improved connections and amenities for transit riders; and 
(E) The development promotes a healthy, vibrant business environment and 
complements the existing businesses and uses along El Camino Real.

--- page 99 ---
(2) When 75% or more demolition and/or expansion and/or redevelopment of 
structures (including parking structures) occurs in Sub-Area A, B, C or D, a comprehensive 
master plan for such sub-area(s) which is consistent with the El Camino Real Master Plan 
and Hillsdale Station Area Plan is required. The development will be required to meet the 
findings in Section 27.60.160(e)(1)(i)—(v) in addition to findings in Section 27.08.030(a)(1)—
(5). 
(f) Q6 (Qualified Overlay District 6)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of the property zoned Q6: 
(1) Uses. All uses in this district shall require a special use permit, as set forth in 
Chapter 27.74 of the Zoning Code. 
(2) Development. Future development in this district shall substantially comply with 
the conceptual development plan submitted as part of Planning Application #01-154 and 
as subsequently approved by the City Council on March 3, 2003. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio. This district shall have a maximum floor area ratio of 0.37:1. For 
the purposes of this district to calculate floor area, the size of the site is 557,568 square-
feet. 
(g) Q7 (Qualified Overlay District 7)—Limitations and Conditions. The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of the property zoned Q7: 
(1) Uses. All uses in this district shall require a special use permit, as set forth in 
Chapter 27.74 of the Zoning Code. 
(2) Development. Future development in this district shall substantially comply with 
the St. Matthew Parish Master Plan and Special Use Permit submitted as part of Planning 
Application #10-060 and as subsequently approved by the City Council on January 22, 
2013. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio. This district shall have a maximum floor area ratio of 0.31. For 
the purposes of this district to calculate floor area, the size of the site is 310,400 square 
feet. For purposes of this zoning district, FAR will be calculated per zoning plot and not per 
parcel. 
(4) Parking. In conformance with the master plan, this district shall allow the 
establishment of 12 new parking spaces which backout directly onto Notre Dame Avenue. 
This is in addition to the 21 existing spaces that backout onto Notre Dame Avenue. 
(h) Q8 (Qualified Overlay District 8)—Limitations and Conditions.  The following limitations 
and conditions shall pertain to the use of the property zoned Q8:

--- page 100 ---
(1) Uses.  All uses in this district shall require a special use permit, as set forth in 
Chapter 27.74 of the Zoning Code. 
(2) Development.  Future development in this district shall comply with the 
approved site plan and approved Special Use Permit as part of the Planning Application # 
PA2018-069 approved by the City of San Mateo.site plans and conditions of approval in all 
applicable Planning Applications. Development standards include allowance of awning up 
to nine (9) feet in height within the rear yard setback. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio.  This district shall have a maximum floor area ratio of 0.39. 
(4) Parking.  Off-site parking facilities shall not be located in excess of 1,000 feet 
from the project site. Uncovered parking may be allowed within the front and side setback. 
(4)(5)  Signage. Signage on the site shall be allowed in accordance with Title 25 of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code.

--- page 101 ---
DATA FORM 
NAME: 
2033 La Salle Drive, Zoning 
Reclassification 
PA : 
PA-2025-012 
ADDRESS: 
2033 La Salle Drive 
LAND AREA: 
26,380 sq. ft. (0.6 acre) 
EXISTING ZONING: R1-B 
PROPOSED ZONING: R1-B/Q8 
APN: 039-040-080 
 
PROPOSED: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
FLOOR AREA:  
 
R1-B  
Q8 Overlay 
  Existing (Total) 
3,958 sq. ft. 
--- 
--- 
  Demolition 
(3,958 sq. ft.) 
--- 
--- 
  Proposed building and trash     
enclosure area  
6,034 sq. ft. 
--- 
--- 
TOTAL: 
6,034 sq. ft. 
6,000 sq. ft. 
10,288.2 sq. ft. 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R.): 
 
R1-B  
Q8 Overlay 
  Existing 
0.15 
0.21 
0.39 
  Proposed 
0.22 
--- 
--- 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
 
 
  Plate line 
15’-5” 
24’-0” 
  Roof Peak 
17’-7” 
32’-0” 
STORIES:  
1 
3 
SETBACKS 
PROPOSED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
  Front 
67’-3/4”  
15’-0” 
  Left Side 
15’-0” 
5’-0” 
  Right Side 
44’-8 ¼” 
5’-0” 
  Rear (First Floor) 
15’-0” 
15’-0” 
PARKING: 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
  On-Site 
11 Spaces 
--- 
  Off-Site 
  15 Spaces 1 
--- 
TOTAL PARKING: 
26 Spaces 
  23 Spaces   
ON-SITE PARKING LOCATION  
Uncovered parking is 
proposed within the front 
setback  
Prohibited in the 
front setback  
Uncovered parking may 
be allowed within the 
front setback 
OFF-SITE PARKING:  
Within 1,000 of the subject 
site 
On the same parcel 
or within 200 feet 
of the site 
Within 1,000 of the 
subject site 
LOADING 
1 
1 
BICYCLE PARKING: 
 
 
  Short Term 
4 Spaces 
4 Spaces (1/20 students) 
  Long Term 
1 Spaces 
1 Spaces (1/20 employees) 
SIGN: 
In accordance with Title 25 of 
the San Mateo Municipal 
In accordance with Title 25 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code

--- page 102 ---
Code 
EMPLOYMENT/ENROLLMENT: 
PROPOSED: 
 
  Faculty 
16 Employees 
--- 
  Students 
75 Students 
--- 
1 Off-site parking is provided at parking facilities on 1900-2000 Alameda de las Pulgas.

--- page 103 ---
Page 1 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840
MEMORANDUM 
To: 
From: 
Date: 
Subject: 
City of San Mateo 
Mike Mowery, P.E. 
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. 
November 11, 2025 
Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum for 2033 La Salle Drive 
The purpose of this memorandum is to describe the approach and findings of a Traffic Evaluation for 
the proposed project at 2033 La Salle Drive (Project) in the City of San Mateo (City). The memorandum 
provides the assumptions for project understanding, data collection, and methodology of the analysis.  
Project Description 
The Project site is adjacent to residential uses and The Carey School elementary campus, located on 
La Salle Drive. The City’s designation for the site is One Family Dwelling “B” (R1B). The Carey School 
is proposing to redevelop the existing single-family residence, and an attached dwelling unit (ADU) at 
2033 La Salle Drive into an early childhood center that can accommodate up to 75 children and 16 staff 
members. It is anticipated that approximately 50% of children would carpool with a sibling that is a 
student at The Carey School. The proposed site plan is included as Attachment A.  
The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan (Attachment E) includes information, policies, and 
procedures relating to traffic and parking for both the proposed early childhood center and the 
existing school campus. The Parking and Traffic Plan outlines that Project’s child drop-off/pick-up will 
occur at one of the following locations, as shown in Figure 1, depending on time of day and carpool 
situation: 
•
Early care drop-off/extended care pick-up: Park in Project parking lot and walk-in
•
Peak Period drop-off (8:00-8:25 AM)/pick-up (3:00-3:25 PM): Either at
o
Staffed carline in Project parking lot or
o
Sibling drop-off/pick-up in elementary school staffed carline on Alameda de las Pulgas
(Grades 2, 3, 5) and La Salle Drive (Grades PS, K, 1, 4). Early childhood center
students will be dropped off at the designated area for their oldest sibling. Staff will
walk children from drop-off/pickup area to building.

--- page 104 ---
Page 2 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Figure 1: Student Loading Locations 
The Parking and Traffic Plan provides detailed procedures for each of student loading locations. For 
the Project site during off-peak period, vehicles will park in one of the parking spaces and then walk 
the child into the care center. During peak period, vehicles cannot park and will follow the drop-off and 
pick-up procedure: 
• 
From 20th Avenue, vehicles will follow one-way loop down La Salle Drive and complete full 
circle before entering Project driveway 
• 
Staff will direct vehicles into designated loading spot and will supervise children 
entering/exiting the vehicle 
• 
Vehicles will exit project site and head north towards 20th Avenue  
TRIP GENERATION 
The standard practice of starting an assessment of transportation related elements for new projects is 
to evaluate what the multi-modal transportation (vehicle, bike, and pedestrian) change may include.  A 
trip generation analysis was conducted to determine the number of trips the Project would generate. 
The trip generation was determined based on average rates from Institute of Transportation Engineer’s 
(ITE) publication, Trip Generation, 11th Edition.  
Project Site 
Parking Lot 
Elementary 
School Loading 
Area

--- page 105 ---
Page 3 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Trip credits were taken to account for the existing single-family residence, and ADU to be demolished.  
For the existing residential trips, data for ITE Land Use 220: Single Family Detached Housing was 
used.  
For the proposed early childhood center, ITE Land Use 565: Day Care Center was used. Note Trip 
Generation does not provide trip generation data during the School PM for both the existing and the 
proposed land uses, therefore as a conservative approach the commute PM trip generation rates were 
used instead. Also, ITE Trip Generation Vehicle Time of Day Distribution tables reports that 
approximately 6.6% of daily residential trips (1 trip) and 4.3% of daily day care trips (13 trips) occur 
during the School PM peak hour of 2:00 and 3:00 PM.  
For the proposed use, a carpool trip reduction was applied because approximately 50% of students of 
proposed childhood center have a sibling that attends the existing elementary school and would arrive 
in the same vehicle. As a conservative approach, this percentage was determined based on the lowest 
observed percentage in the 6 most recent school years of an existing off-site childhood center currently 
operated by the applicant, as shown in Figure 2. Note that the 6-year average is closer to 60%. The 
sibling carpool trips will utilize the existing Carey School drop off and pick up areas at Alameda de las 
Pulgas and La Salle and then walk to the Project.  
 
Figure 2. Percentage of Sibling at Existing Childcare Facility 
61%
79%
61%
61%
50%
50%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
2020-2021
2021-2022
2022-2023
2023-2024
2025-2025
2025-2026
Sibling at The Carey School
Other
The 6-year average shows that 60% of daycare children are siblings to student(s) enrolled at The Carey 
School.

--- page 106 ---
Page 4 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Table 1 presents the overall trip generation for the proposed project. The trips associated with the 
existing use were subtracted from the total since the homes will be removed. The proposed project will 
generate a net new 133 daily trips, 28 net new trips in the AM peak hour, 27 net new trips in the School 
PM peak hour, and 27 net new trips in the PM peak hour.

--- page 107 ---
Page 5 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Table 1:Project Trip Generation 
ITE Land Use Code 
Size 
Units 
Daily Rate 
AM Peak 
School PM Peak 
PM Peak 
Rate 
In% 
Out% 
Rate** 
In% 
Out% 
Rate 
In% 
Out% 
210 
Single-Family 
Detached Housing 
Dwelling Unit(s) 
9.43 
0.70 
25% 
75% 
0.94 
63% 
37% 
0.94 
63% 
37% 
565 
Day Care Center 
Student(s) 
4.09 
0.78 
53% 
47% 
0.79 
47% 
53% 
0.79 
47% 
53% 
Scenario 
ITE Land 
Use Code 
Land Use 
Size 
Units 
Daily Trips 
AM Peak 
School PM Peak 
PM Peak 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Existing 
Residential 
210 
Single-Family 
Detached Housing 
2 
Dwelling 
Unit(s) 
19 
1 
0 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
Total Existing Trips 
19 
1 
0 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
Proposed 
Total 
565 
Day Care Center 
75 
Student(s) 
307 
59 
31 
28 
59 
28 
31 
59 
28 
31 
Carpool Trip 
Reduction 
565 
Day Care Center 
38 
Student(s) 
-155 
-30 
-16 
-14 
-30 
-14 
-16 
-30 
-14 
-16 
Total Proposed Trips 
152 
29 
15 
14 
29 
14 
15 
29 
14 
15 
Total Net New Trips (Proposed – Existing) 
133 
28 
15 
13 
27 
13 
14 
27 
13 
14 
Source: ITE Trip Generation, 11th Edition 
*As a conservative approach, it was assumed that 50% of students will be siblings to a student(s) of the existing The Carey School (elementary). Note that the 6-year average is closer to 60%. The sibling carpool trips will utilize 
the existing Carey School loading areas at Alameda de las Pulgas and La Salle and then walk to the Project. 
**ITE Trip Generation does not provide rates for the School PM peak for residential or day care center land uses therefore the PM trip rates were used.

--- page 108 ---
Page 6 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
TRIP ASSIGNMENT 
As shown in Table 1, it is anticipated that during the peak hours approximately 29 trips will utilize the 
staff car line in the Project parking lot and the remaining 30 trips will utilize the sibling loading areas 
on Alameda de Las Pulgas or La Salle Drive shown inFigure 1. It is assumed that 95% of net new 
trips will come from the west of W 20th Avenue and La Salle Dr, while the remaining 5% of trips will 
come from the east. 
Level of Transportation Analysis 
As of July 1, 2020, the State of California has fully adopted a change in the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) significant impact methodology for transportation impacts to use vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) as opposed to level of service (LOS) via State Bill 743 (SB 743). To address this change, 
the City of San Mateo developed and adopted the Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines (TIA 
Guidelines) to provide screening criteria for determination of the level of transportation analysis and 
requirements for a transportation analysis. 
Transportation analysis may consist of analysis required by CEQA and/or supplemental non-CEQA 
Local Transportation Analysis (LTA). The City’s TIA Guidelines outline criteria for determining the level 
of transportation analysis for a given project.  
CEQA Screening 
A project may be exempt from performing CEQA analysis if the project meets at least one screening 
criteria based on: 
• 
Small Project 
• 
Affordable Housing 
• 
Local-Serving Retail and Public Services 
• 
High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
• 
Consistency with RTP/SCS 
The Project is determined to be exempted from CEQA analysis as summarized in Table 2. This 
determination is made based on the Local-Serving Retail and Public Services screening criteria. Based 
on the current Project information given for this analysis, a presumption of less than significance can 
be made and no VMT analysis is required. Detailed evaluation for each criterion is discussed in the 
following sections. 
Table 2: Project CEQA Screening 
CEQA Land Use Screening Criteria 
Project Exempt? 
Small Project 
No, Daily trips > 110 
Affordable Housing 
N/A 
Local-Serving Retail and Public Services 
Yes, 5,908 SF 
High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
No. Not in HQTA 
Project Located in Low VMT Area 
No. Not in low VMT area 
Consistency with RTP/SCS 
N/A

--- page 109 ---
Page 7 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Small Project 
Small projects are defined as projects that generate less than 110 daily vehicle trips. An average of 
110 average daily trips roughly equates to: 
• 
10 single family residential units 
• 
11 multifamily residential units 
• 
11,000 square feet of office 
As shown in Table 1, the Project generates a net new 133 daily trips, which is greater than the 110-
vehicle trip threshold and does not satisfy this criterion.  
Affordable Housing 
Project components which consist of 100 percent deed restricted affordable housing may be exempt. 
The project does not include any components that fit this description.   
Local-service Retail and Public Services 
Projects that are locally serving retail equal or less than 50,000 square feet may be exempt. The City’s 
guidelines determine local serving retail based on location, characteristics, and envision goods and 
services the retail development would provide. The goods and services provided would be something 
people would need on a regular basis and be close to where people live. Some examples in the City’s 
guidelines include groceries, medicines, restaurants, and fitness and beauty services.  
Based on the City’s guidelines, the childcare service provided by the Project is considered as local 
serving since the Project is located in a residential area of the City and the provided service needed on 
a daily weekday basis. Since the Project is a local service less than 50,000 square, it may be screened 
out from further VMT analysis.  
High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
Locations within high-quality transit area, and/or near Caltrain stations, may be screened out. Figure 3 
illustrates the HQTA within the City, which does not include the Project vicinity, therefore the Project 
does not satisfy this screening criterion.  
Projects Located in Low VMT Areas 
Residential and employment projects within areas that generate VMT below adopted City thresholds 
can be screened out from further VMT analysis. The VMT per capita and VMT per employee are shown 
in the San Mateo Transportation Impact Guidelines. Figures in Attachment B of San Mateo 
Transportation Impact Guidelines show that existing VMT are higher than the City’s thresholds and 
therefore could not be screened out.

--- page 110 ---
Page 8 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Figure 3: High-Quality Transit Area (Source: San Mateo Transportation Impact Guidelines, June 2020) 
Project Site

--- page 111 ---
Page 9 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Local Transportation Analysis 
A non-CEQA local transportation analysis (LTA) may be required to evaluate the effects of the 
development project on the circulation network in proximity of the project site. LTA for the project may 
include the following analysis and evaluations: 
• 
Traffic operation analysis 
• 
Site Review 
o 
Site access and circulation 
o 
Parking assessment 
PROJECT TRAFFIC OPERATION 
The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan (Attachment E) includes information, policies, and 
procedures relating to traffic and parking for both the proposed early childhood center and the 
existing school campus. The plan is shared with parents and students each year with reminders sent 
out regularly.  
The Parking and Traffic Plan outlines that Project’s child drop-off/pick-up will occur at one of three (3) 
student locations, shown in Figure 1, depending on time of day and carpool situation. For vehicles 
accessing the Project site during off-peak period, vehicles will park in one of the parking spaces and 
then walk the child into the care center. During peak period, vehicles cannot park and will follow the 
drop-off and pick-up procedure: 
• 
From 20th Avenue, vehicles will follow one-way loop down La Salle Drive and complete full 
circle before entering Project driveway 
• 
Staff will direct vehicles into designated loading spot and will supervise children 
entering/exiting the vehicle 
• 
Vehicles will exit project site and head north towards 20th Avenue  
Carpool vehicles will utilize the sibling drop-off/pick-up in elementary school staffed carline on 
Alameda de las Pulgas (Grades 2, 3, 5) or La Salle Drive (Grades PS, K, 1, 4). Early childhood center 
students will be dropped off at the designated area for their oldest sibling. Staff will walk children from 
drop-off/pickup area to building. 
TRAFFIC OPERATION ANALYSIS 
Traffic operation analysis was conducted for the unsignalized intersection of W 20th Avenue and La 
Salle Drive during the AM, School PM, and commute PM peak hours. The traffic analysis utilized traffic 
counts that were collected on Thursday, September 4th, 2025 during the AM (7-9 AM), school PM (2-4 
PM), and the commute PM peak (4-6 PM) peak periods when school (including the existing elementary 
campus) was in session. Raw counts are included in Attachment B.

--- page 112 ---
Page 10 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Figure 4 shows the peak hour turning movement counts for the existing conditions as well as the 
projected volumes with the addition of the Project (existing plus project). The peak hours occurs at the 
following times: 
• 
AM Peak: 
7:45 – 8:45 AM 
• 
School PM:  
2:30 – 3:30 PM 
• 
Commute PM: 5:00 – 6:00 PM 
 
Figure 4: W 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive Peak Hour Volumes 
The intersection level of service (LOS) and queuing were conducted to determine the potential change 
in traffic operation at the study intersection. LOS for the intersection was determined using the Highway 
Capacity Manual 7th Edition (HCM 7) methodology within Synchro 12 software. For side street stop 
control (SSSC) intersections, HCM methodology defines LOS as a function of the average control delay 
for the worst minor street movement/approach or major street left-turn. The results are presented below 
in Table 3. The analysis indicates the intersection performs at an acceptable LOS C or better for all 
peak periods. It is anticipated that the Project will increase delay by 1.6 second per vehicle or less. 
Synchro outputs are included in Attachment C.  
Table 3: W 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive LOS Summary 
Time 
Period 
 
Existing 
Existing Plus Project 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
Variance 
 
AM 
Overall 
A 
2.5 
A 
3.1 
0.6 
Worst Approach (NB) 
B 
12.9 
B 
13.8 
0.9 
School PM 
Overall 
A 
1.7 
A 
2.2 
0.5 
Worst Approach (NB) 
 
B 
14.0 
C 
15.5 
1.5 
Commute 
PM 
Overall 
A 
0.5 
A 
0.8 
0.3 
Worst Approach (NB) 
 
B 
14.4 
C 
16.0 
1.6

--- page 113 ---
Page 11 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Queues were also determined using the Highway Capacity Manual 7th Edition (HCM 7) methodology 
within Synchro 12 software. Similar to LOS, HCM 7 methodology reports queue lengths for the worst 
minor street movement/approach or major street left-turn. HCM 7 outputs reports queues by the number 
of vehicles and were converted to feet assuming 25 feet per vehicle.  
The results are presented below in Table 4. The analysis indicates the queue lengths were all at most 
one vehicle during all peak periods. It is anticipated that the Project will not increase any existing queues 
by more than one vehicle, or 25 feet. Synchro outputs are included in Attachment C.  
Table 4: W 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive Queuing Summary 
Time 
Period 
Approach 
Queue Length 
Existing 
Existing Plus Project 
Variance 
# Vehicle 
Feet* 
# Vehicle 
Feet* 
# Vehicle 
Feet* 
AM 
NB 
0.7 
18 
1.0 
25 
0.3 
8 
WB 
0.0 
- 
0.0 
- 
0.0 
- 
School 
PM 
NB 
0.6 
15 
0.9 
23 
0.3 
8 
WB 
0.1 
3 
0.1 
3 
0.0 
- 
Commute 
PM 
NB 
0.2 
5 
0.4 
10 
0.2 
5 
WB 
0.0 
- 
0.0 
- 
0.0 
- 
*Assumes 25 feet per vehicle 
Based on the results of the traffic analysis it was determined that the Project would result in minimal 
impact to existing operations.  
PLAN REVIEW 
Site Circulation 
As discussed in the Project Description section and school’s Parking and Traffic Plan, childcare drop-
off and pick-up operation will differ depending on time of day. During off-peak period, vehicles will park 
in one of the parking spaces and then walk the child into the care center. During peak periods, vehicles 
cannot park in the Project’s parking lot and drop-off/pick-up operations will occur at the staffed carline 
within the Project’s parking lot or sibling drop-off at the staffed carline for the adjacent elementary school 
on Alameda de las Pulgas. The drop-off and pickup activities will be grouped in distinct 15-minute 
schedules to best manage the safety and efficiency of these operations. The Carey School will monitor 
these activities and make adjustments for improvements if needed. 
Student Loading Queue 
A student loading queue analysis was conducted to determine if the proposed loading area for the early 
childhood center would be adequate during a 25-minute peak during the morning drop-off and afternoon 
pick-up periods. The queue for the existing elementary campus was not evaluated as the Project will 
not increase the number of vehicles for that site. The queuing analysis compared the arrival and 
departure rates for the loading queue.

--- page 114 ---
Page 12 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
During peak morning and afternoon peak periods, non-carpool students will utilize the staff carline 
within the Project parking lot. It is assumed that approximately 50 feet (2 vehicles) between the entry 
and exit drive aisles may be used for student loading activity and approximately 45 feet (2 vehicles) 
could queue in the entry throat before spilling onto La Salle Drive. This equates to overall vehicle 
storage of 4 vehicles, where 2 vehicles for loading activities and 2 vehicles for waiting. 
 
As a conservative approach, the arrival rate assumed that all peak hour vehicles would arrive with in 
linear distribution within the 25-minute peak period. Note Trip Generation defines trip as a one 
directional movement, therefore the number of vehicles was the maximum between the inbound or 
outbound trips.  For both peak periods, it is estimated the average arrival rate of 0.6 vehicles per minute 
(veh/min). 
 
The departure rate was determined based on average drop-off and pick-up dwelling times and active 
loading queue storage. Based on engineering and professional judgment, conservative estimates for 
average drop-off and pick-up dwelling times of 4 minutes (240 seconds) were used in the analysis. The 
drop-off/pick-up time is the assumed amount of time it takes for a vehicle to enter a temporary curb-
side space and for children to safely exit or enter the car. For both peak periods, it is estimated the 
average departure rate of 0.5 veh/min. 
The results of the student loading queues are summarized in Table 5. Since the arrival rate is greater 
than the departure rate, there will be an unserved rate of 0.1 veh/min which equates to approximately 
2.5 vehicle queue (unserved rate multiplied by 25-minute peak period). The queue analysis calculation 
is included in Attachment D. 
To minimize queues spillover, a sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the average dwelling 
time which would result in two-vehicle queue, one-vehicle queue, or no queue in the entry throat. The 
results of the sensitivity analysis are presented in Table 6 where the average dwelling times ranged 
from 3.8 minute (230 seconds) for two-vehicle queue to 3.3 minutes (200 seconds) for no queue. As 
stated previously, The Carey School will monitor these activities and make adjustments for 
improvements if needed. 
 
Table 5: Student Loading Queue Analysis Summary 
 
Morning Drop-off 
(8:00-8:25 AM) 
Afternoon Pick-up 
(3:00-3:25 PM) 
Dwell Time (sec) 
240 
240 
# vehicles during peak period* 
15 
15 
Arrival Rate (veh/ min) 
0.6 
0.6 
Departure Rate (veh /min) 
0.5 
0.5 
Unserved Queue (veh) 
2.5 
2.5 
*Assumed the maximum between inbound and outbound peak hour trips.  
Table 6: Dwelling Time Sensitivity Analysis Summary

--- page 115 ---
Page 13 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Unserved Queue  
(Vehicle) 
Dwell time  
(seconds) 
2 
230 
1 
210 
0 
200 
Parking Assessment 
The Project will provide 11 parking spaces on-site. In addition, The Carey School has a shared parking 
agreement where it leases a total of 45 parking spaces, where 15 spaces will be dedicated to the 
proposed early childhood center, from the buildings at 1900-2000 Alameda de las Pulgas. The parking 
lease term runs from March 1, 2025, through March 31, 2030, with options for extension.   
For on-site parking, one (1) space will be dedicated to the Director and all remaining Staff will utilize 
the remote parking spaces at 1900-2000 Almeda de las Pulgas. The remaining ten (10) spaces will be 
utilized for parent drop-off and pick-up, outside of the staffed carline operations noted in the section 
above. 
Parking requirements for the proposed Project are presented in Chapter 27.64.160 of San Mateo’s 
Municipal Code. For day nurseries, including preschools and nursery schools, the minimum parking 
required includes: 
• 
1 space for each employee. 
• 
Designated spaces for loading and unloading children, where 1 space per 6 persons (or portion 
thereof) licensed at the facility with maximum of 3 spaces for up to 30 licensed persons, and 
thereafter 1 space per 10 licensed person. 
o 
The loading/unloading spaces may be located on street frontage with appropriate 
permits for loadings zones. 
o 
The overall requirement may be reduced by 1 space by the provision of a permanently 
assigned employee to assist children from the drop-off area to the facility.  
Table 7 summarizes the parking requirement for the Project, which is 23 spaces. The combined total 
of on-site parking and remote parking equates to 26 spaces, which satisfies the City’s requirements. It 
should be noted that this analysis does not include spaces for the staffed carline on Alameda de las 
Pulgas or La Salle Drive, reflecting a conservative approach to the drop-off and pick-up operations.

--- page 116 ---
Page 14 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Table 7: Project Parking Requirements Summary 
Amount 
Parking Requirement 
# Parking 
stalls 
16 Staff 
1 space per employee 
16 
75 Children 
1 space per 6 persons with a maximum of 3 spaces 
for 30 licensed persons, then 1 space per 10 licensed 
persons 
8 
Reduction for permanent assigned employees to assist with loading 
-1 
Minimum parking requirement 
23 
Proposed 
Parking 
On-Site 
11 
Off-Site 
15 
Total 
26 
Surplus (+) / Deficient (-) 
+3 
Parking analysis also evaluated if the parking inventory for the building located at 1900-2000 Alameda 
de las Pulgas would remain sufficient after leasing 45 spaces to The Carey School. The 1900 Alameda 
Building is evaluated based on the R&D parking requirements noted in the City’s parking requirements. 
This evaluation is based on the City’s record of improvements starting in year 2020 for Speculative Lab 
and Support Spaces completed for the 1900 Alameda building, under Building Permit BD-2020-275487 
and subsequent improvement permits for all the leasable space. Based on the 1900 Alameda use as 
Laboratory and 1950 and 2000 Alameda uses as Office, the combined minimum parking requirement 
would result in 713 parking spaces. This parking space requirement is assuming a 100% occupancy of 
the buildings rather than reflective of a specific tenant occupancy percentage, which would be less than 
100% due to hybrid schedules for many employers in the regions. The 1900-2000 Alameda buildings 
provide 801 parking spaces, inclusive of a 430-space parking structure and a 371-space surface lot. 
The shared use of all parking spaces was documented as a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and 
Restrictions (CC&R’s) recorded on June 6, 1984, as Instrument No 1984-061165 with the County of 
San Mateo. 
In summary, the inventory of 801 parking spaces allows for a sufficient supply of the 713 required 
Office/R&D parking, as well as the 45 spaces leased to The Carey School, leaving a surplus of 43 
spaces available. Table 8 summarizes the calculation of these results. 
Table 8: 1900-2000 Alameda Parking Evaluation 
Building 
Amount 
Parking 
Requirement 
# Parking 
stalls 
1900 Alameda 
113,000 GSF 
R&D: 1 per 500 SF 
226 
1950-2000 Alameda 
153,336 GSF 
Office: 1 per 315 SF 
487 
Total 
713 
Current Parking Inventory 
801 
Surplus (+) / Deficient (-) 
+88 
Remaining surplus after 45-space lease to The Carey School 
+43

--- page 117 ---
Page 15 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840
CONCLUSION 
The following is a summary of the traffic and parking evaluation: 
Project Description 
•
The Project site is located at 2033 La Salle Drive, which is adjacent to residential uses and 
The Carey School elementary campus.
•
The Project is proposing to redevelop the existing single-family residence and an attached 
dwelling unit (ADU) into an early childhood center that can accommodate up to 75 children. It 
is anticipated that approximately 50% of children would carpool with a sibling that is a student 
at The Carey School.
•
The proposed project will generate a net new 133 daily trips, 28 net new trips in the AM peak 
hour, 27 net new trips in the School PM peak hour, and 27 net new trips in the PM peak hour.
Vehicle Miles Traveled 
•
The Project is determined to be exempted from CEQA analysis based on the Local-Serving
Retail and Public Services screening criteria.
Traffic Operation 
•
Level of service analysis found that the intersection of W 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive will
operate at LOS C or better during the AM, School PM, and commute PM peak hours with the
addition of Project traffic
•
Queuing analysis found that the Project will not increase any existing queues by more than
one vehicles or 25 feet.
•
The results of the traffic analysis found that the Project would result in minimal impact to
existing operations.
Plan Review 
•
Childcare drop-off and pick-up operation will differ depending on time of day.
o
During the Project’s peak hour, drop-off/pickup operations will occur at the staffed
carline within the Project’s parking lot or sibling drop-off at the staffed carline for the
adjacent elementary school on Alameda de las Pulgas.
o
During non-peak times, vehicles may park in the Project parking lot and walk-in.
o
The Carey School will monitor these activities and make adjustments for
improvements if needed.
•
Student loading found that staff carline would need to have an average dwell time of less
than 4 minutes to ensure that queues do not spill onto La Salle Drive during peak periods.
•
The combined total on-site parking and off-site parking equates to 26 spaces, which satisfies
the City’s requirements of 23 spaces.

--- page 118 ---
Page 16 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
ATTACHMENT 
Attachment A – Site Plan 
Attachment B – Traffic Counts 
Attachment C – Synchro Reports  
Attachment D – Student Loading Queue Worksheet 
Attachment E – The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan

--- page 119 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Attachment A – Site Plan

--- page 120 ---
FD
FD
FD
FD
FD
FD
FD
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
59' - 11 3/8"
6' - 0"
5' - 6 1/32"
39' - 2 1/2"
34' - 7 1/2"
24' - 4 1/2"
MAIN BUILDING
5,895.3 SF
TRASH ENCLOSURE
103.7 SF
25' - 8 1/2"
31' - 5"
47' - 8"
9' - 5 1/2"
9' - 11 1/2"
1' - 6"
122' - 3 7/8"
LA SALLE DRIVE
FLOOR AREA CALCULATION
R1-B
7,076 SF (0.27 FAR)
5,895.3 SF
*
Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.18.060
**   Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.200(b)(2)(c), covered walkways have been
excluded
*** See Sheet G0.01 PROJECT INFORMATION - ZONING SUMMARY for ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA calculations
MAIN BUILDING GROSS AREA**
TRASH ENCLOSURE GROSS AREA
TOTAL PROPOSED FLOOR AREA
DISTRICT
103.7 SF
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE FAR*
5,999 SF ***
6,000 SF (0.22 FAR)
MAXIMUM RESIDENTIAL USE FAR*
AS SHOWN
STUDIO BONDY ARCHITECTURE OWNS ALL COPYRIGHTS AND OTHER  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN THIS WORK PRODUCT AND IT IS PROTECTED BY UNITED STATES COPYRIGHT LAWS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATY PROVISIONS.  REFER TO  THE PROJECT MANUAL FOR APPLICABLE USE RESTRICTIONS. ORIGINAL DRAWING IS 30" X 42". SCALE ENTITIES ACCORDINGLY IF REDUCED.
110 LINDEN STREET | OAKLAND, CA | 94607
510.836.6594 | info@studiobondy.com
PROJECT NO.:
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2/12/2025 5:10:35 PM
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
A1.02
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
2423.00
2033 LA SALLE DRIVE
SAN MATEO, CA  94403
P: 650.345.8205
EARLY CHILDHOOD
CENTER FOR THE
CAREY SCHOOL
TRUE
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FLOOR AREA CALCULATION DIAGRAM
SPAR / SUP PLANNING
APPLICATION
02.14.2025
Attachment A

--- page 121 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Attachment B – Traffic Counts

--- page 122 ---
National Data & Surveying Services
Intersection Turning Movement Count
Location: La Salle Dr & W 20th Ave
City: San Mateo
Project ID:
Control: 1-Way Stop(NB)
Date:
NS/EW Streets:
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
35
0
0
0
22
0
1
58
7:15 AM
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
1
0
0
18
0
0
38
7:30 AM
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
34
2
0
2
27
0
0
68
7:45 AM
7
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
32
7
0
5
39
0
1
94
8:00 AM
20
0
7
0
0
0
1
0
0
57
18
0
6
37
0
0
146
8:15 AM
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
42
2
0
1
43
1
0
94
8:30 AM
3
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
55
3
0
0
35
0
0
99
8:45 AM
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
57
1
0
0
31
0
0
90
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
36
0
16
0
1
0
1
0
0
330
34
0
14
252
1
2
687
APPROACH %'s :
69.23%
0.00%
30.77%
0.00%
50.00%
0.00%
50.00%
0.00%
0.00%
90.66%
9.34%
0.00%
5.20%
93.68%
0.37%
0.74%
PEAK HR :
7:45 AM
40
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
35
0
12
0
1
0
1
0
0
186
30
0
12
154
1
1
433
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.438
0.000
0.429
0.000
0.250
0.000
0.250
0.000
0.000
0.816
0.417
0.000
0.500
0.895
0.250
0.250
Headers
NBL
NBT
NBR
NBU
SBL
SBT
SBR
SBU
EBL
EBT
EBR
EBU
WBL
WBT
WBR
WBU
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
2:00 PM
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
43
3
0
0
33
0
0
80
2:15 PM
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
63
1
0
0
34
0
0
99
2:30 PM
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
55
8
1
3
115
0
1
186
2:45 PM
10
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
49
12
0
6
53
0
0
139
3:00 PM
9
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
0
43
14
0
2
39
0
0
119
3:15 PM
7
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
53
12
0
2
34
0
1
118
3:30 PM
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
75
4
0
1
49
0
0
132
3:45 PM
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
60
2
0
0
39
0
0
106
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
36
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
441
56
1
14
396
0
2
979
APPROACH %'s :
52.17%
0.00%
47.83%
0.00%
0.00%
88.55%
11.24%
0.20%
3.40%
96.12%
0.00%
0.49%
PEAK HR :
2:30 PM
12:00 AM
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
27
0
32
0
0
0
0
0
0
200
46
1
13
241
0
2
562
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.675
0.000
0.667
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.909
0.821
0.250
0.542
0.524
0.000
0.500
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
4:00 PM
2
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
57
6
0
1
34
0
0
102
4:15 PM
2
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
56
1
0
0
29
0
0
90
4:30 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
90
3
0
2
33
0
0
130
4:45 PM
3
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
99
5
1
1
51
0
0
161
5:00 PM
1
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
99
4
0
2
52
1
1
165
5:15 PM
2
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
1
105
7
0
1
69
0
0
188
5:30 PM
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
1
0
2
64
0
0
180
5:45 PM
1
0
3
0
0
1
0
0
0
144
3
0
0
48
0
0
200
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
17
0
16
0
1
1
1
0
1
757
30
1
9
380
1
1
1216
APPROACH %'s :
51.52%
0.00%
48.48%
0.00%
33.33%
33.33%
33.33%
0.00%
0.13%
95.94%
3.80%
0.13%
2.30%
97.19%
0.26%
0.26%
PEAK HR :
5:00 PM
12:00 AM
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
9
0
11
0
1
1
0
0
1
455
15
0
5
233
1
1
733
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.450
0.000
0.550
0.000
0.250
0.250
0.000
0.000
0.250
0.790
0.536
0.000
0.625
0.844
0.250
0.250
25-080286-001
9/4/2025
05:00 PM - 06:00 PM
0.916
0.833
0.500
0.801
0.857
0.755
0.702
0.950
0.538
02:30 PM - 03:30 PM
07:45 AM - 08:45 AM
0.741
PM
 NORTHBOUND
 SOUTHBOUND
 EASTBOUND
 WESTBOUND
NOON
 NORTHBOUND
 SOUTHBOUND
 EASTBOUND
 WESTBOUND
0.435
0.500
0.720
0.933
AM
  NORTHBOUND
  SOUTHBOUND
  EASTBOUND
  WESTBOUND
Data - Total
La Salle Dr
La Salle Dr
W 20th Ave
W 20th Ave

--- page 123 ---
National Data & Surveying Services
Intersection Turning Movement Count
Location: La Salle Dr & W 20th Ave
City: San Mateo
Project ID:
Control: 1-Way Stop(NB)
Date:
NS/EW Streets:
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
3
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
1
0
0
4
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
6
0
0
9
APPROACH %'s :
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
PEAK HR :
7:45 AM
40
0
0
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
4
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.333
0.000
0.000
Headers
NBL
NBT
NBR
NBU
SBL
SBT
SBR
SBU
EBL
EBT
EBR
EBU
WBL
WBT
WBR
WBU
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
2:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
0
3
3:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
3:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
6
APPROACH %'s :
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
PEAK HR :
2:30 PM
175
0
0
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
3
0
0
5
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.500
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.375
0.000
0.000
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
5
0
0
6
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
NL
NT
NR
NU
SL
ST
SR
SU
EL
ET
ER
EU
WL
WT
WR
WU
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
8
0
0
12
APPROACH %'s :
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
PEAK HR :
5:00 PM
293
0
0
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
6
0
0
7
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.250
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.300
0.000
0.000
25-080286-001
9/4/2025
05:00 PM - 06:00 PM
0.292
0.250
0.300
02:30 PM - 03:30 PM
0.417
0.500
0.375
07:45 AM - 08:45 AM
0.333
PM
 NORTHBOUND
 SOUTHBOUND
 EASTBOUND
 WESTBOUND
NOON
 NORTHBOUND
 SOUTHBOUND
 EASTBOUND
 WESTBOUND
0.333
AM
  NORTHBOUND
  SOUTHBOUND
  EASTBOUND
  WESTBOUND
Data - Bikes
La Salle Dr
La Salle Dr
W 20th Ave
W 20th Ave

--- page 124 ---
National Data & Surveying Services
Intersection Turning Movement Count
Location: La Salle Dr & W 20th Ave
Project ID:
City: San Mateo
Date:
NS/EW Streets:
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
7:00 AM
0
0
0
2
1
2
1
0
6
7:15 AM
0
2
1
0
0
0
1
1
5
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
7:45 AM
1
0
2
3
0
0
0
1
7
8:00 AM
1
11
0
0
0
0
1
4
17
8:15 AM
2
3
2
1
0
0
1
1
10
8:30 AM
2
0
1
3
0
0
1
0
7
8:45 AM
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
4
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
8
17
7
9
1
2
6
7
57
APPROACH %'s :
32.00%
68.00%
43.75%
56.25%
33.33%
66.67%
46.15%
53.85%
PEAK HR :
7:45 AM
39
-1
-1
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
6
14
5
7
0
0
3
6
41
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.750
0.318
0.625
0.583
0.750
0.375
Headers
NEB
NWB
SEB
SWB
ENS
ESB
WNB
WSB
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
2:00 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
2:15 PM
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2:30 PM
0
2
2
8
1
2
6
1
22
2:45 PM
0
6
0
6
1
1
5
1
20
3:00 PM
1
1
6
0
0
0
1
3
12
3:15 PM
2
0
3
2
0
0
2
2
11
3:30 PM
3
0
3
3
0
0
5
0
14
3:45 PM
1
2
2
2
0
0
2
0
9
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
10
12
17
21
2
3
21
7
93
APPROACH %'s :
45.45%
54.55%
44.74%
55.26%
40.00%
60.00%
75.00%
25.00%
PEAK HR :
2:30 PM
173
-2
-2
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
3
9
11
16
2
3
14
7
65
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.375
0.375
0.458
0.500
0.500
0.375
0.583
0.583
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
4:00 PM
3
5
0
1
0
0
2
0
11
4:15 PM
1
2
5
0
0
0
0
2
10
4:30 PM
3
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
4
4:45 PM
2
3
1
1
0
0
1
0
8
5:00 PM
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
5:15 PM
1
2
0
0
0
0
1
0
4
5:30 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
4
5:45 PM
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
3
EB
WB
EB
WB
NB
SB
NB
SB
TOTAL
TOTAL VOLUMES :
12
14
8
3
0
0
6
2
45
APPROACH %'s :
46.15%
53.85%
72.73%
27.27%
75.00%
25.00%
PEAK HR :
5:00 PM
290
-3
-3
TOTAL
PEAK HR VOL :
3
4
1
1
0
0
3
0
12
PEAK HR FACTOR :
0.750
0.500
0.250
0.250
0.375
25-080286-001
9/4/2025
0.750
0.583
0.500
0.375
05:00 PM - 06:00 PM
02:30 PM - 03:30 PM
0.739
0.500
0.675
0.417
0.750
0.603
0.417
PM
NORTH LEG
SOUTH LEG
EAST LEG
WEST LEG
NOON
NORTH LEG
SOUTH LEG
EAST LEG
WEST LEG
0.600
0.450
07:45 AM - 08:45 AM
AM
NORTH LEG
SOUTH LEG
EAST LEG
WEST LEG
Data - Pedestrians (Crosswalks)
La Salle Dr
La Salle Dr
W 20th Ave
W 20th Ave

--- page 125 ---
Prepared by National Data & Surveying Services
ID: 25-080286-001
Day:
City: San Mateo
Date:
AM
1
0
1
0
AM
NOON
0
0
0
0
NOON
PM
0
1
1
0
PM
AM
NOON
PM
PM
NOON
AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
1
233
241
154
0
1
0
0
0
5
13
12
0
0
1
0
TEV
433
562
733
0
1
2
1
186
200
455
1
PHF
0.74 0.76 0.92
30
46
15
0
0
0
1
0
AM
NOON
PM
PM
NOON
AM
PM
0
9
0
11
PM
NOON
0
27
0
32
NOON
AM
0
35
0
12
AM
Pedestrians (Crosswalks)
Cars (PM)
HT (PM)
59
42
NORTHBOUND
La Salle Dr
Cars (NOON)
HT (NOON)
02:30 PM - 03:30 PM
468
234
200
Cars (AM)
21
HT (AM)
W 20th Ave
EASTBOUND
WESTBOUND
W 20th Ave
190
269
242
CONTROL
1-Way Stop(NB)
0
2:00 PM - 04:00 PM
05:00 PM - 06:00 PM
2
La Salle Dr & W 20th Ave
Peak Hour Turning Movement Count
La Salle Dr
Thursday
SOUTHBOUND
9/4/2025
4:00 PM - 06:00 PM
PEAK HOURS
07:45 AM - 08:45 AM
1
7:00 AM - 09:00 AM
COUNT PERIODS
NOON
AM
PM
PM
AM
AM
NOON
PM
PM
NOON
AM
AM
NOON
PM
NOON
NOON
PM
AM
NOON
AM
PM
NOON
AM
PM
NOON
PM
AM
0
7
6
3
14
3
1
11
5
1
16
7
0
2
0
0
3
0
4
9
14
3
3
6
0
0
1
0
4
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
233
4
15
451
1
0
1
1
10
0
9
0
239
12
46
198
0
0
0
0
31
0
27
1
153
12
30
185
0
1
0
1
12
0
35

--- page 126 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Attachment C – Synchro Reports

--- page 127 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: AM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
186
30
12
154
35
12
Future Vol, veh/h
186
30
12
154
35
12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
12
12
0
9
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
72
72
93
93
44
44
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
258
42
13
166
80
27
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
312
0
492
291
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
291
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
200
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1248
-
536
748
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
758
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
833
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1234
-
520
739
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
520
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
750
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
817
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.57
12.9
HCM LOS
B
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
562
-
-
130
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.19
-
-
0.01
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
12.9
-
-
7.9
0
HCM Lane LOS
B
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.7
-
-
0
-

--- page 128 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: School PM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.7
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
200
46
13
241
27
32
Future Vol, veh/h
200
46
13
241
27
32
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
27
27
0
21
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
95
95
54
54
70
70
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
211
48
24
446
39
46
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
286
0
777
262
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
262
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
515
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1276
-
365
777
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
782
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
599
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1243
-
340
757
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
340
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
762
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
572
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.41
13.99
HCM LOS
B
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
485
-
-
92
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.174
-
- 0.019
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
14
-
-
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
B
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.6
-
-
0.1
-

--- page 129 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: PM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.5
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
455
15
5
223
9
11
Future Vol, veh/h
455
15
5
223
9
11
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
2
0
3
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
80
80
86
86
83
83
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
569
19
6
259
11
13
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
590
0
854
580
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
580
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
274
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
986
-
329
514
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
560
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
772
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
984
-
325
513
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
325
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
559
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
765
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.19
14.4
HCM LOS
B
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
407
-
-
39
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.059
-
- 0.006
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
14.4
-
-
8.7
0
HCM Lane LOS
B
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.2
-
-
0
-

--- page 130 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing Plus Project
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: AM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.1
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
186
44
13
154
47
13
Future Vol, veh/h
186
44
13
154
47
13
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
12
12
0
9
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
72
72
93
93
44
44
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
258
61
14
166
107
30
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
331
0
503
301
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
301
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
203
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1228
-
528
739
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
751
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
831
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1214
-
511
730
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
511
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
742
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
814
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.62
13.77
HCM LOS
B
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
546
-
-
140
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.25
-
- 0.012
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
13.8
-
-
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
B
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
1
-
-
0
-

--- page 131 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing Plus Project
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: School PM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.2
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
200
58
14
241
40
33
Future Vol, veh/h
200
58
14
241
40
33
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
27
27
0
21
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
95
95
54
54
70
70
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
211
61
26
446
57
47
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
299
0
787
268
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
268
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
519
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1263
-
360
771
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
777
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
597
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
1230
-
334
751
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
334
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
757
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
569
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.44
15.51
HCM LOS
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
446
-
-
99
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.234
-
- 0.021
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
15.5
-
-
8
0
HCM Lane LOS
C
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.9
-
-
0.1
-

--- page 132 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
Existing Plus Project
1: La Salle Drive & 20th Avenue
Timing Plan: PM
Synchro 12 Report
Kimley-Horn
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.8
Movement
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
455
27
6
223
22
12
Future Vol, veh/h
455
27
6
223
22
12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
2
0
3
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
-
0
0
-
Grade, %
0
-
-
0
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
80
80
86
86
83
83
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
569
34
7
259
27
14
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
0
0
605
0
864
588
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
588
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
276
-
Critical Hdwy
-
-
4.12
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
-
- 2.218
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
973
-
325
509
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
555
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
770
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
-
-
971
-
320
508
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
320
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
554
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
762
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s/v
0
0.23
15.99
HCM LOS
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
Capacity (veh/h)
368
-
-
47
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.111
-
- 0.007
-
HCM Control Delay (s/veh)
16
-
-
8.7
0
HCM Lane LOS
C
-
-
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.4
-
-
0
-

--- page 133 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Attachment D – Student Loading Queue Worksheet

--- page 134 ---
Assumptions:
Demand
Drop-Off
AM - 8:00 - 8:25
240 sec dwell
15 veh
0.5 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.10 veh / min
Queue:
2.5 veh
62.5 feet
Pick-Up
PM - 3:00 - 3:25
240 sec dwell
15 veh
0.5 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.10 veh / min
Queue:
Queue Storage:
2.5 veh
2 veh
62.5 feet
50 feet
25 feet / veh
Projected Queuing for 2033 La Salle Drive
9/10/2025

--- page 135 ---
Assumptions:
Demand
Drop-Off
AM - 8:00 - 8:25
230 sec dwell
15 veh
0.521739 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.08 veh / min
Queue:
2.0 veh
48.9 feet
Pick-Up
PM - 3:00 - 3:25
230 sec dwell
15 veh
0.521739 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.08 veh / min
Queue:
Queue Storage:
2.0 veh
2 veh
48.9 feet
50 feet
25 feet / veh
Projected Queuing for 2033 La Salle Drive (2-vehicle queue)
9/10/2025

--- page 136 ---
Assumptions:
Demand
Drop-Off
AM - 8:00 - 8:25
210 sec dwell
15 veh
0.571429 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.03 veh / min
Queue:
0.7 veh
17.9 feet
Pick-Up
PM - 3:00 - 3:25
210 sec dwell
15 veh
0.571429 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.03 veh / min
Queue:
Queue Storage:
0.7 veh
2 veh
17.9 feet
50 feet
25 feet / veh
Projected Queuing for 2033 La Salle Drive (1-vehicle queue)
9/10/2025

--- page 137 ---
Assumptions:
Demand
Drop-Off
AM - 8:00 - 8:25
200 sec dwell
15 veh
0.6 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.00 veh / min
Queue:
0.0 veh
0.0 feet
Pick-Up
PM - 3:00 - 3:25
200 sec dwell
15 veh
0.6 veh / min Capacity
Total Arrival Time
25 min
Arrival Rate
0.60 veh / min
Unserved Rate (Arrival - Departure)
0.00 veh / min
Queue:
Queue Storage:
0.0 veh
2 veh
0.0 feet
50 feet
25 feet / veh
Projected Queuing for 2033 La Salle Drive (No queue)
9/10/2025

--- page 138 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
 
Attachment E – The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan

--- page 139 ---
The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan  
This plan has been updated to include the proposed Carey School Early Childhood Center 
(ECC) on La Salle Drive into Carey’s existing Parking and Traffic Plan. This plan, including on 
designated pick-up and drop-off locations, traffic flow, and escort requirements, is shared with 
the Carey Community each year and reminders are sent regularly to require all community 
members to follow the plan as outlined below. The requirements of this plan will be monitored 
by Carey’s Head of School, Director of Operations and Director of Facilities. 
One of our primary responsibilities as neighborhood community members is to execute a safe 
and efficient parking and traffic plan. The plan that follows is one we have developed in 
collaboration with the City of San Mateo and our neighbors. The principal goals of the plan are 
two: 
1.​ To ensure the safety of the children, the school community, and those in the 
neighborhood. 
2.​ To create an efficient flow of traffic to minimize the traffic impact on the neighborhood 
for daily school operations and special events. 
We appreciate all you do to maintain good relationships with our neighbors, and therefore, we 
require your full adherence to this plan at all times. 
A. Staggered Start and End Times 
The school has early morning care beginning at 7:45 am and extended care each afternoon until 
6:00 pm. We ask that you utilize the chart below for the location and drop-off and pick-up 
times of each grade: 
Grade 
Start 
Time 
Morning 
Peak Time 
Location 
End 
Time 
Afternoon 
Peak 
Time 
Location 
Kindergarten 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 La Salle 
2:45 
2:45-2:55 La Salle 
First 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 La Salle 
3:00 
3:00-3:10 La Salle 
Second 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 Alameda  
3:00 
3:00-3:10 Alameda  
Third 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 Alameda  
3:15 
3:15-3:25 Alameda  
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 140 ---
Fourth 
8:15 
8:00 - 8:15 La Salle 
3:15 
3:15 -3:25 La Salle 
Fifth 
8:15 
8:00 - 8:15 Alameda  
3:15 
3:15 -3:25 Alameda  
3s 
8:30 
8:15 - 8:30 ECC Parking Lot 
2:35 
2:35 - 2:45 ECC Parking Lot 
Pre-K 
8:30 
8:15 - 8:30 ECC Parking Lot 
2:35 
2:35 - 2:45 ECC Parking Lot 
2s 
8:45 
8:30 - 8:45 ECC Parking Lot 
2:30 
2:30 - 2:35 ECC Parking Lot 
*Note: If you have more than one child in the school, please use the designated area/time for 
the oldest child.  
B. Staffing 
●​
During peak morning times, there will be five administrators at drop-off and pick-up 
areas (on the Alameda and on the La Salle circle), and one staff member on the corner 
of 20th Ave and La Salle (denoted by the numeral 5) from 8:00-8:25 am and 3:00-3:30 
pm to assist children and to help direct the flow of traffic. Please see the exhibits of the 
La Salle circle below where the numbers denote administrator on duty.  
●​
During peak afternoon times, each lead and assistant teacher for grades will supervise 
the pick-up for the respective grades. 
●​
All school staff on duty use walkie talkies to communicate and create a safe and efficient 
process.  
Note: Additionally, the administrators on duty will help ensure that the driveways are free for 
neighbor use (driveways denoted on exhibit with X). On rare occasions, when a car in the 
queue blocks the flow of traffic, they will be asked to drive around the block.  
C. Preschool Student Logistics 
*The following logistics apply to all locations preschool students are dropped off and picked up 
(La Salle, Alameda, ECC parking lot) 
●​
Preschool students with siblings should be dropped off and picked up with their oldest 
sibling 
●​
To ensure safe exit and entrance of cars on La Salle and Alameda, preschool students 
should be seated closest to the rear passenger door so staff can ensure their safe exit 
and entrance to vehicles. 
●​
School staff shall be assigned to escort all preschool students from all designated pick-up 
locations on La Salle and the Alameda to the school building, and from the building back 
to each pick-up location. 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 141 ---
●​
While assigned staff are escorting students to or from the building, another staff 
member shall remain stationed at each drop-off and pick-up location to receive arriving 
preschool students and ensure continuous supervision. Each location must always have 
at least one dedicated staff member present during the entire pick-up and drop-off 
period. 
●​
Students shall be escorted by school staff or parents/guardians between the 2033 La 
Salle parking lot and the school building. Unaccompanied students are not permitted to 
walk between these areas. 
D. Traffic Procedures La Salle (Grades PS, K, 1, 4) 
All vehicles are required to drive slowly on La Salle, when turning off of and returning to 20th 
Ave.   
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
Rules of the Road: 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 142 ---
●​
Please do not park on the La Salle Circle during peak hours as it is used for drop-off and 
pick-up. 
●​
Pull all the way forward on La Salle by completing the full circle around the cul-de-sac.  
The forward-most drop-off and pick-up location would be just beyond the school’s 
driveway. 
●​
In order to ensure safe access and egress to and from the neighborhood, please stay in 
your vehicle at all times and follow the flow of traffic and do not leave the line to turn 
back around, especially by using a neighbor’s driveway. 
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the circle and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. 
●​
Families and faculty/staff are asked not to park on La Salle during the school day. If you 
need to come to campus, utilize parking on the Alameda, in the ECC parking lot, 2000 
Alameda or short-term parking in the circle outside of carline operation.  
E. Traffic Procedures Alameda (Grades 2, 3, 5) 
All vehicles are required to drive slowly on the Alameda into the white zone. The School 
maintains a speed limit monitor to encourage drivers to maintain a safe speed.  Be advised that 
parking will not be allowed from the end of the white zone to the end of the red zone fire 
hydrant on the Alameda from 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm. 
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
Rules of the Road: 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 143 ---
●​
The white zone in front of the school is designated as a drop-off/pick-up zone only.  
Please do not park in this area. 
●​
In order to ensure the safety of passenger cars behind you, please stay in your vehicle at 
all times and pull all the way forward on the Alameda to the forward-most spot in the 
white zone (Note that this spot is several car lengths in front of the front gate). 
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the white zone and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. 
F. Early Childhood Center Drop-Off and Pick-Up 
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
 
Rules of the Road: 
●​
Pull all the way forward on La Salle, complete the full circle and then pull into the ECC 
driveway.  Pull as far forward as possible in the drop-off lane to keep traffic flowing.  
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 144 ---
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the parking lot and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. Remain in your car unless directed 
otherwise by staff.  
●​
In order to ensure safe access and egress to and from the neighborhood, please follow 
the one-way loop from W 20th Ave down La Salle Dr through the drop-off loop and do 
not jump the line, follow the flow of traffic. If dropping off, have your child signed in on 
Procare and have their backpacks and belongings ready to speed up unloading. 
F. Extended Care Drop-Off and Pick-Up During Non-Peak Times 
School is open as of 7:45 am and those dropping off before 8:00 am must walk students to the 
gate where they are monitored upon entry to the premises. The Alameda (non-white zone) and 
La Salle cul-de-sac are available for parking during these times. When picking up your student 
from extended care, please park parallel on Alameda or in the ECC parking lot.  The faculty 
parking lot is not available for parent parking unless otherwise specified (see Special Events). 
G. Special Events 
The School has established parking routines for special events are tailored to the anticipated 
parking need of the particular event in an effort to minimize the impact on the neighborhood.  
For nighttime events, the campus grounds may be used for parking, which increases the onsite 
spaces by 30.  The school partners with the commercial property at 2000 Alameda to handle 
overflow parking or for parents that wish to park and walk their children into school.  
H. Contacting the School 
In the event you have observations or concerns about the parking or traffic conditions near The 
Carey School, please contact Head of School, Neely Norris at (650) 345-8205 or send an email 
to nnorris@careyschool.org.   
I. Help the Environment 
To relieve traffic and to help the environment, we encourage the following modes of 
transportation to and from school: 
●​ Walk/Bike to School: The Carey School Bi-Ped Club - Contact The Carey School for 
more information. 
 
●​ Carpool to School: School Pools - The School maintains a GoKid account which is a 
convenient and reliable school carpooling program for schools which helps families form 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 145 ---
and manage carpools. ​
 
Also, when in the queue, turn your car off if you will be waiting for more than a minute.  Idling 
wastes gas and causes more pollution than restarting your car. 
Thank you for your assistance in making The Carey School safe and for being a 
responsible community member. 
If you have any questions about these protocols, please contact Neely Norris, Head of School at 
nnorris@careyschool.org or (650)345-2044. 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 146 ---
Preschool Enrollment Data With Sibling Numbers and Grades By Class and Year 
School year
Preschool Class 
Enrollment in 
Class
# of Students 
with Older 
Siblings
Grades of 
Older Siblings 
(Preschool 
students 
represented by 
letter) 
2020-2021
PK-#1
11
8
a- 1st 
b- 2nd, 4th
c-1st, 3rd
d- 1st
e- 3rd
f- K
g- 1st
h- 5th
PK-#2
12
6
a- 1st 
b- K
c-2nd
d- 2nd
e-1st
f- 1st, 2nd
2021-2022
PK-#1
12
9
a- 2nd
b- 2nd
c-1st
d- 2nd
e- 3rd
f-2nd, 5th
g- 1st
h- 2nd
i- 2nd
PK-#2
12
10
a- 1st
b- 3rd
c-2nd
d- 3rd
e- 1st
f-2nd
g- 3rd
h- 2nd
i-2nd
j-2nd
2022-2023
3s
12
9
a- 1st
b- 1st
c-K
d- 1st
e- K
f-1st
g- 1st
h- 1st
i-1st

--- page 147 ---
PK-#1
14
8
a- 2nd
b- 2nd
c-4th
d- 1st
e-2nd
f-1st, 2nd
g- 3rd
h- 1st
PK-#2
12
6
a- 2nd
b- K
c-2nd, 4th
d- 2nd
e-1st
f-2nd
2023-2024
3s
12
9
a- 3rd
b- K, 3rd
c-K
d- K, 2nd
e-2nd, 4th, 5th
f-K
g- 1st, 4th
h- 3rd
i- 1st
PK-#1
13
7
a- 2nd
b- 2nd
c-2nd
d- 5th
e-2nd
f-2nd
g- 1st, 5th
PK-#2
13
7
a- 1st
b- 2nd
c-K
d- 2nd
e-2nd
f-4th
g- 5th
2024-2025
3s
12
5
a- 1st
b- K
c-2nd
d- K, 5th
e-2nd
PK-#1
14
7
a- 3rd
b- 1st, 4th
c-1st, 3rd
d- 3rd
e-3rd, 4th
f-2nd, 5th
g- 2nd
PK-#2
14
8
a- 2nd
b- 4th
c-K
d- 1st
e-1st
f-K
g- 1st
h- 4th

--- page 148 ---
2025-2026
3s
12
11
a- 1st
b- K, 1st
c-K
d- K
e- K
f-K
g- 1st
h- K
i-2nd
j-1st
k- 3rd
PK-#1
14
5
a- K
b- 3rd
c-2nd
d- 2nd
e-1st
PK-#2
14
4
a- 1st
b- 3rd
c-1st
c-1st, 4th

--- page 149 ---
The Carey School’s Parking and Traffic Plan  
This plan has been updated to include the proposed Carey School Early Childhood Center 
(ECC) on La Salle Drive into Carey’s existing Parking and Traffic Plan. This plan, including on 
designated pick-up and drop-off locations, traffic flow, and escort requirements, is shared with 
the Carey Community each year and reminders are sent regularly to require all community 
members to follow the plan as outlined below. The requirements of this plan will be monitored 
by Carey’s Head of School, Director of Operations and Director of Facilities. 
One of our primary responsibilities as neighborhood community members is to execute a safe 
and efficient parking and traffic plan. The plan that follows is one we have developed in 
collaboration with the City of San Mateo and our neighbors. The principal goals of the plan are 
two: 
1.​ To ensure the safety of the children, the school community, and those in the 
neighborhood. 
2.​ To create an efficient flow of traffic to minimize the traffic impact on the neighborhood 
for daily school operations and special events. 
We appreciate all you do to maintain good relationships with our neighbors, and therefore, we 
require your full adherence to this plan at all times. 
A. Staggered Start and End Times 
The school has early morning care beginning at 7:45 am and extended care each afternoon until 
6:00 pm. We ask that you utilize the chart below for the location and drop-off and pick-up 
times of each grade: 
Grade 
Start 
Time 
Morning 
Peak Time 
Location 
End 
Time 
Afternoon 
Peak 
Time 
Location 
Kindergarten 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 La Salle 
2:45 
2:45-2:55 La Salle 
First 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 La Salle 
3:00 
3:00-3:10 La Salle 
Second 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 Alameda  
3:00 
3:00-3:10 Alameda  
Third 
8:15 
8:00-8:15 Alameda  
3:15 
3:15-3:25 Alameda  
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 150 ---
Fourth 
8:15 
8:00 - 8:15 La Salle 
3:15 
3:15 -3:25 La Salle 
Fifth 
8:15 
8:00 - 8:15 Alameda  
3:15 
3:15 -3:25 Alameda  
3s 
8:30 
8:15 - 8:30 ECC Parking Lot 
2:35 
2:35 - 2:45 ECC Parking Lot 
Pre-K 
8:30 
8:15 - 8:30 ECC Parking Lot 
2:35 
2:35 - 2:45 ECC Parking Lot 
2s 
8:45 
8:30 - 8:45 ECC Parking Lot 
2:30 
2:30 - 2:35 ECC Parking Lot 
*Note: If you have more than one child in the school, please use the designated area/time for 
the oldest child.  
B. Staffing 
●​
During peak morning times, there will be five administrators at drop-off and pick-up 
areas (on the Alameda and on the La Salle circle), and one staff member on the corner 
of 20th Ave and La Salle (denoted by the numeral 5) from 8:00-8:25 am and 3:00-3:30 
pm to assist children and to help direct the flow of traffic. Please see the exhibits of the 
La Salle circle below where the numbers denote administrator on duty.  
●​
During peak afternoon times, each lead and assistant teacher for grades will supervise 
the pick-up for the respective grades. 
●​
All school staff on duty use walkie talkies to communicate and create a safe and efficient 
process.  
Note: Additionally, the administrators on duty will help ensure that the driveways are free for 
neighbor use (driveways denoted on exhibit with X). On rare occasions, when a car in the 
queue blocks the flow of traffic, they will be asked to drive around the block.  
C. Preschool Student Logistics 
*The following logistics apply to all locations preschool students are dropped off and picked up 
(La Salle, Alameda, ECC parking lot) 
●​
Preschool students with siblings should be dropped off and picked up with their oldest 
sibling 
●​
To ensure safe exit and entrance of cars on La Salle and Alameda, preschool students 
should be seated closest to the rear passenger door so staff can ensure their safe exit 
and entrance to vehicles. 
●​
School staff shall be assigned to escort all preschool students from all designated pick-up 
locations on La Salle and the Alameda to the school building, and from the building back 
to each pick-up location. 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 151 ---
●​
While assigned staff are escorting students to or from the building, another staff 
member shall remain stationed at each drop-off and pick-up location to receive arriving 
preschool students and ensure continuous supervision. Each location must always have 
at least one dedicated staff member present during the entire pick-up and drop-off 
period. 
●​
Students shall be escorted by school staff or parents/guardians between the 2033 La 
Salle parking lot and the school building. Unaccompanied students are not permitted to 
walk between these areas. 
D. Traffic Procedures La Salle (Grades PS, K, 1, 4) 
All vehicles are required to drive slowly on La Salle, when turning off of and returning to 20th 
Ave.   
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
Rules of the Road: 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 152 ---
●​
Please do not park on the La Salle Circle during peak hours as it is used for drop-off and 
pick-up. 
●​
Pull all the way forward on La Salle by completing the full circle around the cul-de-sac.  
The forward-most drop-off and pick-up location would be just beyond the school’s 
driveway. 
●​
In order to ensure safe access and egress to and from the neighborhood, please stay in 
your vehicle at all times and follow the flow of traffic and do not leave the line to turn 
back around, especially by using a neighbor’s driveway. 
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the circle and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. 
●​
Families and faculty/staff are asked not to park on La Salle during the school day. If you 
need to come to campus, utilize parking on the Alameda, in the ECC parking lot, 2000 
Alameda or short-term parking in the circle outside of carline operation.  
E. Traffic Procedures Alameda (Grades 2, 3, 5) 
All vehicles are required to drive slowly on the Alameda into the white zone. The School 
maintains a speed limit monitor to encourage drivers to maintain a safe speed.  Be advised that 
parking will not be allowed from the end of the white zone to the end of the red zone fire 
hydrant on the Alameda from 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm. 
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
Rules of the Road: 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 153 ---
●​
The white zone in front of the school is designated as a drop-off/pick-up zone only.  
Please do not park in this area. 
●​
In order to ensure the safety of passenger cars behind you, please stay in your vehicle at 
all times and pull all the way forward on the Alameda to the forward-most spot in the 
white zone (Note that this spot is several car lengths in front of the front gate). 
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the white zone and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. 
F. Early Childhood Center Drop-Off and Pick-Up 
 
*Numbers in exhibit are personnel locations 
 
Rules of the Road: 
●​
Pull all the way forward on La Salle, complete the full circle and then pull into the ECC 
driveway.  Pull as far forward as possible in the drop-off lane to keep traffic flowing.  
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 154 ---
●​
Staff will direct cars into each designated drop-off/pick-up spot in the parking lot and 
supervise children entering/exiting the vehicle. Remain in your car unless directed 
otherwise by staff.  
●​
In order to ensure safe access and egress to and from the neighborhood, please follow 
the one-way loop from W 20th Ave down La Salle Dr through the drop-off loop and do 
not jump the line, follow the flow of traffic. If dropping off, have your child signed in on 
Procare and have their backpacks and belongings ready to speed up unloading. 
F. Extended Care Drop-Off and Pick-Up During Non-Peak Times 
School is open as of 7:45 am and those dropping off before 8:00 am must walk students to the 
gate where they are monitored upon entry to the premises. The Alameda (non-white zone) and 
La Salle cul-de-sac are available for parking during these times. When picking up your student 
from extended care, please park parallel on Alameda or in the ECC parking lot.  The faculty 
parking lot is not available for parent parking unless otherwise specified (see Special Events). 
G. Special Events 
The School has established parking routines for special events are tailored to the anticipated 
parking need of the particular event in an effort to minimize the impact on the neighborhood.  
For nighttime events, the campus grounds may be used for parking, which increases the onsite 
spaces by 30.  The school partners with the commercial property at 2000 Alameda to handle 
overflow parking or for parents that wish to park and walk their children into school.  
H. Contacting the School 
In the event you have observations or concerns about the parking or traffic conditions near The 
Carey School, please contact Head of School, Neely Norris at (650) 345-8205 or send an email 
to nnorris@careyschool.org.   
I. Help the Environment 
To relieve traffic and to help the environment, we encourage the following modes of 
transportation to and from school: 
●​ Walk/Bike to School: The Carey School Bi-Ped Club - Contact The Carey School for 
more information. 
 
●​ Carpool to School: School Pools - The School maintains a GoKid account which is a 
convenient and reliable school carpooling program for schools which helps families form 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 155 ---
and manage carpools. ​
 
Also, when in the queue, turn your car off if you will be waiting for more than a minute.  Idling 
wastes gas and causes more pollution than restarting your car. 
Thank you for your assistance in making The Carey School safe and for being a 
responsible community member. 
If you have any questions about these protocols, please contact Neely Norris, Head of School at 
nnorris@careyschool.org or (650)345-2044. 
One Carey School Lane • San Mateo, CA 94403 • Phone (650) 345-8205 • Fax (650) 345-2528 • www.careyschool.org

--- page 156 ---
BRIDGE
COMMERCIAL
REALESTATE

2000 Alameda De Las Pulgas, Suite123
San Mateo, CA 94403

Via First Class Mail and E-mail
September 30, 2019

The Carey Schoo!

1 Carey School Lane

San Mateo, CA 94403
Attn: Susan Loveall

Re: 1900 - 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, San Mateo, CA

Dear Tenant,

This notice is to inform you that ownership and management of the Premises have been
transferred. Your current Lease will remain in full force and effect.

All maintenance issues and any correspondence shall now be directed to the new Ownership and
Management Company.

It has been a pleasure to serve you, and the best in all your future endeavors.

Sincerely,

teph
Area Property Manager
Bridge Commercial Real Estate LLC


--- page 157 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Licensor and Licensee have entered into this Agreement as of
the date first written above.

LICENSOR:

RAL

By:

Name:

Title: Authorized Siggaaton

LICENSEE:

The Ca hool

By:

Name: O50. Lovee Q
Title: CH ©

June 29,2048

9353366.1


--- page 158 ---
™ All future rents and payments to be made by you under the Lease are to be made pursuant to

separate rent payment instructions that will be delivered to you under separate cover by Buyer.
Thank you for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,

BRIDGE II] CA ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS LLC,
. po

Its:

Name: JoHathan P. Slager

Its: Authorized Signatory

620\3346069.3


--- page 159 ---
PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT

YE PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement" is made and entered into as
of July A , 2018, by and between Bridge {ll CA Alameda de las Pulgas, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company ("Licensor") and The Carey School, a California non-profit
Corporation ("Licensee").

RECITAL:

WHEREAS, Licensee desires to receive a license to use certain parking spaces in the
surface parking lot 1900, 1950, 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas - Exterior Parking Lot ("Parking
Lot") (as depicted on the attached site plan, Exhibit A) to be occupied only by faculty and staff of
Licensee located in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California (the" Lease
Premises") and Licensor has agreed to grant Licensee a license to use parking spaces upon the
terms and conditions set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein
contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged Licensor and Licensee agree as follows:

1. Licensor grants Licensee a non-exclusive revocable license to use no more than Thirty
(30) unreserved parking space(s) (collectively, the “Space(s)") in the Parking Lot for the
use of Licensee and its faculty and staff. The Spaces that Licensee isentitied to use shall
be located exclusively within the area of the Parking Lot as shown on Exhibit A attached
hereto. No deductions or allowances shall be made for days when Licensee does not
utilize the Parking Lot or any or all of the Spaces. Licensee shall not have the right to
use more than the number of Spaces set forth herein. Licensee shall provide Licensor
with a list of the license plate numbers for all vehicles authorized to park on the
Leased Premises not less than monthly.

2. The term of this Agreement shall be for 1 month commencing on August 1, 2018 (the
“Gommencement Date’) and ending on July 31, 2019, provided that the term of this
Agreement shall automatically be extended thereafter on a month-to-month basis until
terminated by either Licensor or Licensee by the giving of at least 30 days written notice
of termination to the other party.

3. On or before the first day of each month during the term of this A reement, Licensee
shall pay to Licensor the sum of Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars INI er month,
plus any applicable state sales or use taxes, for 30 Spaces, if any (collectively, the "
Parking License Fee''). If Licensee fails to pay any installment of the Parking License Fee
to Licensor when due and payable hereunder installment of the Parking License
Fee shall accrue interest at the rate of id the maximum rate allowed by
law in the state in which the Parking Lot is located, if such is a lesser rate) from the date
due until paid in fuil. if such failure continues for five (5) days after notice, Licensor, in
addition o the exercise of any rights and remedies provided at law or in equity, shall have
the right to terminate this Agreement with one (1} day written notice to Licensee. The
Parking License Fee and other charges due hereunder shall be made payable to the
entity, and sent to the address, Licensor designates and shail be made by good and
sufficient check or by other means acceptable to Licensor. Except for particular spaces
and areas designated by Licensor for reserved parking, all parking in the Parking Lot and
surface parking areas serving the Building shall be on an unreserved, first-come, first-
served basis.

4. Licensor shall not be responsible for money, jewelry, automobiles or other personal
property lost in or stolen from the Parking Lot or the surface parking areas, if any,
regardless of whether such loss or theft occurs when the Parking Lot or surface parking
areas are locked or otherwise secured. Without limiting the terms of the preceding
sentence, Licensor shail not be liable for any loss, injury or damage to persons using the
Parking Lot or the surface parking areas or any loss, injury or damage to any automobiles
or other property therein, it being agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the
use of the Spaces shall be at the sole risk ofLicensee.

5. Licensor shalt maintain the Parking Lot in a clean condition and pay for all electric power
for lighting and incidental use lighting; provided that Licensee shall be responsible tor

dune 29,2048

9343366.1


--- page 160 ---
hart

40.

12.

12.

13.

14.

any additional cleaning costs that are incurred by Licensor in connection with or as a
result of the acts of Licensee, its employees and visitors. Licensee shall not make any
alterations thereon without written consent of the Licensor, nor shall Licensee commitor
suffer to be permitted any waste upon the premises. Licensee shall provide sufficient
Staffing and oversight of the parking lot to insure that the parking operation is operated
in a safe, clean, first class manner.

Licensor shall have the right to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations regarding
the Parking Lot and the Spaces and the use thereof, including, but not limited to, rules
and regulations controlling the flow of traffic to and from various parking areas, and the
angle and direction of parking and the like. Licensee shall comply with all such rules and
regulations as well as all reasonable additions and amendments thereto.

Licensee shall not use the Leased Premises for any purpose that will cause Licensor to
incur any additional or added expense, without first obtaining the written consent of
Licensee.

Licensee shall comply with all laws and ordinances of the City and County of San Mateo
or any other government entity having jurisdiction over the Leased Premises. If any legal
action or proceeding be brought by either party to enforce any part of this agreement, the
prevailing party shall recover, in addition to all other relief, reasonable attorney's fees and
costs.

Waiver, by Licensor, of any covenant herein contained shall not vitiate the same or any
other covenant contained herein and the terms and conditions contained herein are to
apply to and bind the heirs, successor, andassigns of each of the parties hereto.

Licensor shall have the right to temporarily close the Parking Lot or certain areas thereon
in order to perform necessary repairs, maintenance and improvements to the Parking
Lot.

Licensee shail not assign or otherwise transfer the Spaces without the written consent of
Licensor. Licensor shall have the right to terminate this Parking Agreement with respect
to any Spaces that Licensee desires to assign or otherwise transfer. Licensor shall have
the right to assign or otherwise transfer its interest under this Agreement to any operator
of the Parking Lot or any subsequent owner of the Parking Lot.

Licensor may elect to provide parking cards or keys or to implement such other measures
as Licensor reasonably elects to control access to the Parking Lot. In such event,
Licensor shail provide Licensee with access to the Parking Lot by way of card, key or
such other method as Licensor shall elect.

To the extent Licensor is not prevented by law from contracting against such liability,
Licensee shall indemnify Licensor and Licensor's agents, and their respective principals,
partners, members, agents, beneficiaries, and employees and save them harmless from
all suits, actions, darnages, liabilities casts and expenses relating to the loss of life, oodily
or personal injury, or property damage arising from or out of any acts or omissions of
Licensee or any of its invitees, agents, employees or contractors while in the Parking Lot
or on any surface parking areas serving the Building or the use of the Spaces, Parking Lot
or any surface parking areas serving the Building by such parties.

If the Parking Lot or Spaces shall be so damaged by fire or other casualty that, in
Licensor's reasonable judgment, substantia! alteration or reconstruction of the Parking Lot
or Spaces shall be required, Licensor may, at its option, terminate this Agreement by
notifying Licensee in writing of such termination. Such termination shail be effective as of
the date of fire or casualty.

NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THIS
AGREEMENT, THE LIABILITY OF LICENSOR {AND OF ANY SUCCESSOR
LICENSOR HEREUNDER) TO LICENSEE SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE INTEREST OF
LICENSOR IN THE PARKING LOT, AND LICENSEE AGREES TO LOOK SOLELY TO
LICENSOR'S INTEREST IN THE PARKING LOT FOR THE RECOVERY OF ANY
JUDGMENT OR AWARD AGAINST THE LICENSOR, IT BEING INTENDED THAT
NEITHER LICENSOR NOR ANY MEMBER, PRINCIPAL PARTNER, SHAREHOLDER,
OFFICER, DIRECTOR OR BENEFICIARY OF LICENSOR SHALL BE PERSONALLY
LIABLE FOR ANY JUDGMENT OR DEFICIENCY LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES
THAT LICENSOR'S AGENT 1S ACTING SOLELY IN ITS CAPACITY AS AGENT FOR

dune 29,2018

9353366.1


--- page 161 ---
15.

16.

LICENSOR AND SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY OBLIGATIONS, LIABILITIES,
LOSSES OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS
LICENSE, ALL OF WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY WAIVED BY LICENSEE.

Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder by one party to the o her shall be
deemed to be given when personally delivered, or 3 days after mailed by registered or
certified mail with return receipt requested, or one day after sent by a national overnight
courier service to the respective party to whom notice is intended to be given at the
appropriate address provided below:

If to Licensor: Bridge investment Group

with copy to:

Bridge Investment Group

If to Licensee: The Carey Schoo}
One Carey School Lane
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attn.: Susan Loveall

Licensee represents, warrants and covenants that each party that constitutes, owns or
contrals, or is owned or controlled by, Licensee, any guarantor of the Agreement or any
sublicense of Licensee is not, and at no time during the term of the Agreement will be,
(i) in violation of any laws relating to terrorism or money laundering, or (ii) arnong the
individuals or entities identified on any list compiled pursuant to Executive Order 13224
for the purpose of identifying suspected terrorists or on the most current list published by
the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control at its official website,
http://www.treas.gov/ofac/tlisdn.pdf or any replacement website or other replacement
official publication of such list.

June 29,2018

9353366 I


--- page 162 ---
i

2000 ALAMEDA OE LAS

2000 ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS 1800 ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS ome

1900 ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS

> \
< | : oe —
' a
. ! a ;
- oa
Pm) :
— i ; ,
pa Sag } !
i
. | | , '
} we we
/ z z, aa
E 5
/ ~ ae 3
? at< =
/ ziz i
F 28 |
/ Rye
f f
/ !
+. . B.. “2
Pee as TN LC ee
4

ALAMEDBA oe LAS PULGAS


--- page 163 ---
AMENDMENT TO PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT

This AMENDMENT TO PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is dated as
of February 6, 2025 and made by and between ALAMEDA FIELDS-1, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (“Licensor”) and THE CAREY SCHOOL, a California non-profit corporation (“Licensee”)
with reference to the following:

A. WHEREAS, Licensee and Bridge III CA Alameda de las Pulgas, LLC, Licensor’s
predecessor-in-interest, entered into that certain Parking License Agreement dated July 25, 2018 (the
“Original License Agreement”) pursuant to which Licensor grants to Licensee, on a month-to-month
basis, a non-exclusive license to use certain “Spaces” in the surface “Parking Lot” which is currently
controlled by Licensor and commonly referred to as 1950 and 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, San Mateo,
California, WHERAS all capitalized terms used in this Amendment but not otherwise defined shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Original License;

B. WHEREAS, Licensee and Licensor desire to modify the terms of the Original License
Agreement; and whereas the Original License Agreement, as modified by this Amendment, shall be
referred to as the “Agreement”;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual covenants
contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree to amend the Original Lease as follows:

1. Spaces. Effective as of March 1, 2025, Licensee shall have the right to use up to
forty-five (45) Spaces in the Parking Lot pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the Original
License Agreement.

2. Parking Licensee Fee. E
Parking Licensee Fee in the amount of
conditions set forth in the Original License Agreement.

f March 1, 2025, Licensee shall pay to Licensor a
on a monthly basis, pursuant to the terms and

3. Term Extension. The term of the license is hereby extended from March 1, 2025 to
February 28, 2030 (the “Extension Term”); provided, however, either Licensor or Licensee may
terminate the Extension Term and the Agreement (with or without cause) by delivering to the
non-terminating party written notice of such termination effective on a date that is no less than thirty (30)
days following the date of delivery of such written notice.

4. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, including electronic
or “DocuSign” counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which together shall
constitute one and the same agreement.

S. Ratification. Except, as and to the extent modified by this Amendment, all provisions of
the Original License Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of a conflict between
the terms of the Original License Agreement and the terms of this Amendment, the terms in this
Amendment shall control.

[Signatures appear on following page.]


--- page 164 ---
IN WITNESS THEREOF, this Amendment is executed as of dates set forth below.

LICENSOR:

ALAMEDA FIELDS-1, LLC,

By: Alameda Fields, LLC,

Its: Mem

By:
Name: Roger Fields
Title: Manager
Date:

LICENSEE:

THE CAREY SCHOOL,

py lek Ryle
Name: Michelle Ryder

Title: Director of Finance

NO


--- page 165 ---
THIRD AMENDMENT TO PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT 
 
This THIRD AMENDMENT TO PARKING LICENSE AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is 
dated as of October 28, 2025 and made by and between ALAMEDA FIELDS-1, LLC, a Delaware limited 
liability company (“Licensor”) and THE CAREY SCHOOL, a California non-profit corporation 
(“Licensee”) with reference to the following:   
 
A. 
WHEREAS, Licensor and Licensee are parties to that certain Parking License Agreement 
dated July 25, 2018 (the “Original Agreement”), as amended by that certain Amendment to Parking 
License Agreement dated February 6, 2025 (the “First Amendment”), as further amended by that certain 
Second Amendment to Parking License Agreement dated October 17, 2025 (the “Second Amendment,” 
and together with the Original Agreement and First Amendment, the “Existing Agreement”) pursuant to 
which Licensor grants to Licensee, on a month-to-month basis, a non-exclusive license to use certain 
“Spaces” in the surface “Parking Lot” which is currently controlled by Licensor and commonly referred 
to as 1950 and 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, San Mateo, California; and WHERAS all capitalized terms 
used in this Amendment but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the 
Existing Agreement; 
B. 
WHEREAS, Licensor and Licensee desire to modify the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Second Amendment with respect to the number of spaces permitted for Special Event(s); and whereas 
the Existing Agreement, as modified by this Amendment, shall be referred to as the “Agreement”; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual covenants 
contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are 
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree to amend the Existing Agreement as follows: 
1. 
Special Events.  Licensor and Licensee hereby acknowledge and agree that Licensee’s 
use of the Spaces shall include, without any additional charge or fee, Licensee’s right to use up to 150 
Spaces to accommodate overflow parking for Licensee’s guests and invitees (including parents) for and 
during certain special events hosted by Licensee from time to time outside of normal business hours, on 
weekends, on holidays, or as otherwise approved by Licensor (“Special Event(s)”).    
2. 
Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, including electronic 
or “DocuSign” counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which together shall 
constitute one and the same agreement.   
3. 
Ratification.  Except, as and to the extent modified by this Amendment, all provisions of 
the Existing Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  In the event of a conflict between the terms 
of the Existing Agreement and the terms of this Amendment, the terms in this Amendment shall control. 
[Signatures appear on following page.] 
 
 
1

--- page 166 ---
IN WITNESS THEREOF, this Amendment is executed as of dates set forth below.

LICENSOR:

ALAMEDA FIELDS-1, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company

By: Alameda Fields, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company
Its: | Member

By:
Name: Roger Fields

Title: Manager
Date: | b] 20 | 25

LICENSEE:

THE CAREY SCHOOL,
a California non-profit corporation

By: Mim mye
Name: _Michelle Ryder
Title: Director of Finance
Date: 10/28/2025



--- page 167 ---
720 University Avenue, Suite 200  Los Gatos, CA 95032  408.458.3200  www.harveyecology.com  
 
Memorandum 
 
October 29, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project # 4907-01 
 
To:  
Michelle Huber, StudioBondy Architecture; Mara Chase, Carey School  
 
 
 
From:  
Kelly Hardwicke, H. T. Harvey & Associates  
 
 
Subject:  
Riparian Setback Assessment for Early Childhood Center for Carey Schoool 
Project, City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California  
 
 
 
Executive Summary. This memorandum was prepared to document the appropriate riparian setback for a 
construction of a new Early Childhood Center for Carey School at 1 Carey School Lane in the City of San Mateo. 
The Early Childhood Center (project) would be located at an adjacent parcel, at 2033 LaSalle Drive, Assessor’s 
Parcel Number (APN)-039040080 (Figure 1). An unnamed creek serves as the property line between the 2033 
LaSalle Drive project parcel and Carey School. This memorandum summarizes the habitat characteristics of the 
unnamed creek and riparian corridor located along the north edge of the creek, and provides our opinion of the 
appropriate, San Mateo-required riparian setback. The project parcel was evaluated by qualified biologists to 
determine the limits of sensitive riparian habitat within the unnamed creek, the TOB, and also to evaluate the 
potential for impacts to this habitat from the project. Using this data, setbacks appropriate to City codes were 
established (Figure 2), and new project buildings will entirely avoid these setbacks. No riparian trees will be 
removed by the project, and there will be no encroachment into riparian habitat beyond the existing development. 
The project is expected to have only minor, temporary, self restoring impacts to riparian habitat and no impacts 
to the creek itself.  
 
Regulatory Setting. The City of San Mateo has a city-wide setback requirement for waterways, Municipal Code 
7.39.130: Watercourse Protection (City of San Mateo 2024)1. Development setback from the unnamed creek was 
determined as described in Municipal Code 7.39.130 (a) and (b)(3). Additionally, our riparian setback assessment 
evaluated the riparian setback from the unnamed creek in accordance with the slope setback requirements 
applicable to stream banks described in City of San Mateo Slope Development Standards, pages 2-6 (City of San 
Mateo 1998).2 We have also mapped and discussed the minimal and less than significant potential impacts to 
 
1 City of San Mateo. 2024. City of San Mateo Municipal Code, City of San Mateo Law Library. Accessed at: 
https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code in November 2024 
2 City of San Mateo. 1998. Slope Development Standards: Questions and Answers about Building on Sloped Property. 
Available from https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/92653/Slope-Development-Standards

--- page 168 ---
2 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
sensitive riparian habitat associated with the unnamed stream, which are typically analyzed under CEQA 
Appendix G, Biological Resources Guideline B, which covers impacts to riparian habitat and other sensitive 
natural communities.  
 
Methods. H. T. Harvey & Associates plant and wetland ecologist Katherine Marlin, M.S., conducted a 
reconnaissance-level survey of the project site, defined as parcel 039040080 on October 30, 2024. The purpose 
of the survey was to provide creek and riparian habitat mapping, including top of bank and riparian dripline, and 
to measure various creek dimensions such as average depth and horizontal bank distance to apply the correct 
slope setback methods. We also mapped the location of top of bank (TOB), as well as the riparian dripline on 
the north bank of the creek, using sub-meter GPS. Creek depth was estimated using an inclinometer and verified 
using ESRI’s aggregated topographic LIDAR data for the area (ESRI, 2024).   Top of bank was mapped for the 
northern creek bank using methods from A Field Guide to the Identification of the Ordinary High Water Mark (OHWM) 
in the Arid West Region of the Western United States: A Delineation Manual (USACE 2008).3 
 
Within the riparian dripline and creek banks, we mapped sensitive riparian habitat. Riparian habitat was mapped 
based on the canopy line of trees rooted within TOB and changes in the vegetative community, from the 
understory species described in the preceding paragraph, to planted, ornamental species. Riparian habitat would 
also include all areas below the TOB. However, it should be noted that the areas underneath the riparian canopy 
that overhang TOB at this site were developed as yard and ornamental vegetation, and would be considered 
developed beyond TOB. Observations of the creek conditions and habitats were also noted. TOB was recorded 
by flagging the TOB in the field and then surveying this line in using accurate survey methods.  
 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 7.39.130: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION applies to all watercourses, 
public and private, throughout the city (City of San Mateo 2024).  Therefore, our setback analysis focused on the 
WATERCOURSE PROTECTION code and the City’s Slope Development Standards, which apply to creek 
banks. 
 
In accordance with the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 7.39.130: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION, under 
Chapter 7.39: Stormwater Management and Discharge (City of San Mateo 2024):  
 
“(a) Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee or 
tenant, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property reasonably free of 
trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles which would pollute, contaminate, or 
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse; shall maintain existing privately owned 
structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the 
use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse; and shall not remove healthy bank vegetation 
beyond that actually necessary for said maintenance, nor remove said vegetation in such a manner as to 
increase the vulnerability of the watercourse to erosion. 
 
 
 
3 [USACE] U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 2008. A Field Guide to the Identification of the Ordinary High Water Mark 
(OHWM) in the Arid West Region of the Western United States: A Delineation Manual. ERDC/CRREL TR-08-12.

--- page 169 ---
3 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
(b) No person shall commit or cause to be committed any of the following acts, unless a written permit 
has first been obtained from the Director of Public Works: 
 
… (3) Carry out development within 30 feet of the center line of any creek or 20 feet of the 
top of a bank; …or,  
 
(6) Place any loose or unconsolidated material along the side of or within a watercourse or so 
close to the side as to cause a diversion of the flow, or to cause a probability of such material 
being carried away by stormwaters passing through such watercourse.”  
 
 
City of San Mateo Slope Development Standards state that the slope setback distance is determined by a 
combination of slope steepness, slope height at top of slope, and/or a calculation of distance related to slope 
height and horizonal/vertical distance (City of San Mateo 1998). As per the Slope Development Standards:  
 
“for a slope over 25% up to and including 50%, and 10 feet to 30 feet height top of slope, the setback 
from top of slope is the greater of either: 
 
15 feet,  
 
The diagonal distance of 3:1, 3 horizontal to 1 vertical measured from the toe slope, or,  
 
A distance equal to the slope height from the top of slope.”  
 
In this case, we defined “toe slope” to be the bottom of the creek, which was approximated well by the current 
property line which is a stream centerline, and “top of slope” to be TOB.  
 
We chose three points along the creek which each represent approximately 1/3 of the length of the creek, each 
with unique characteristics including ground cover and slope percent. Then, using an inclinometer, we measured 
degree of slope steepness from the toe of slope. Horizontal distance from toe of slope to top of slope/bank was 
measured using GPS. Finally, the depth from toe of slope to the bottom of the creek was visually estimated  and 
trigonometric calculations, and verified using LIDAR topographic data (ESRI, 2024). 
 
Results. The approximately 0.6-acre project parcel is located in the midst of urban-suburban development, 3.5 
miles east of Crystal Springs and 4 miles west of the San Francisco Bay (Figure 1). The reach of the unnamed 
creek adjacent to the parcel is channelized and runs perpendicular to LaSalle Drive. The creek does not appear in 
maps from National Wetlands Inventory or U.S. Geological Survey, and is undergrounded in culverts and bridges 
both up- and down-stream of the project site. At the time of the October survey, there was low flow with about 
3-6 inches of water. Since October is towards the end of the dry season, and the conditions were normal at the 
time of the survey, this unnamed creek is likely perennial (EPA 2024).4 The creek channel is incised, likely due to 
high flows during previous rainy seasons’ storm events. There is a three-foot-wide culvert at the west end of the 
unnamed creek, a chain-link fence near the midway point with a handmade structure that allows for water flow, 
 
4 [EPA] Environmental Protection Agency. 2024. Antecedent Precipitation Tool [Software]. Available from https:// 
www.epa.gov/wotus/antecedent-precipitation-tool-apt.

--- page 170 ---
4 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
and an opening at the east end which drains under the road. The eastern drainage is piped underground after the 
road crossing. The low-flow channel is approximately 3 feet wide and has a sandy substrate filled with 3-4 inch 
wide, gravelly rocks. The creek bottom is unvegetated, does not support wetlands, and tree roots stick out of the 
break in slope delimiting the low flow channel.  
 
The mapped TOB line and riparian canopy and habitat are shown on Figure 2. The riparian area within the project 
parcel was determined by identifying trees rooted below or right at the top of bank on the 2033 LaSalle Drive 
side of the creek, and whose canopies overhung the creek substantially. Riparian habitat did not include any trees 
rooted beyond top of bank, even if they had continuous canopy cover with trees rooted below top of bank, as 
many of these appeared planted and did not have any biological relation to the stream, being located well above 
the stream’s water table or expected area of normal flooding. The riparian area within the parcel has an 
approximately 50% slope (2:1). The slopes are more gradual at the east and west extremities, and steepest in the 
middle. Overstory tree species included some natives such as coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) and cottonwood 
(Populus fremontii), as well as non-natives such as Japanese cheesewood (Pittosporum tobira), brush cherry (Syzygium 
paniculatum), silky oak (Grevillea robusta), and Peruvian pepper tree (Schinus molle). A planted coast redwood (Sequoia 
sempervirens) was rooted just above the edge of top of bank at the eastern reach and is not considered a part of the 
riparian drip line. This redwood is a part of a continuous row of landscaped yard trees that are planted in a flat, 
sandy landscaped area. Understory vegetation species included nightshade (Solanum sp.), smooth leaved elm 
(Ulmus minor), bitter lettuce (Lactuca virosa), French broom (Genista monspessulana), Himalayan blackberry (Rubus 
armeniacus), bull thistle (Cirsium vulgare), nettleleaf goosefoot (Chenopodium murale), periwinkle (Vinca major), English 
ivy (Hedera helix), and stream orchid (Epipactis sp.), all of which were vegetative at the time of the survey.  
 
Upland, developed habitat north of the riparian habitat was flat and entirely developed/landscaped, consisting of 
concrete driveway, ornamental species such as aloe (Aloe sp.), or jade (Crassula sp.), turf grasses, and redwoods 
along the east edge of the parcel. Developed plantings occurred under the riparian dripline beyond TOB and 
would not be considered sensitive habitat at the ground level, even though the riparian canopy overhangs this 
area. Photos of the creek channel, riparian area, and adjacent upland are presented in Appendix B. 
 
Stream/Slope Setback. Slope height was 10, 8.5, and 7 feet at data points 1, 2 and 3 respectively. The average 
vertical slope height at top of slope/bank was 8.5 feet. Therefore, the minimum slope setback for new buildings, 
as described in the Slope Development Standards, is 15 feet from TOB. This is greater than either the 3:1 distance 
from toe of slope or the distance of the depth from TOB.   
 
The Watercourse Setback was evaluated as 20 feet from TOB, which was greater than 30 feet from toe of slope. 
Figure 2 in Appendix A shows the results from the survey on October 30, 2024, including TOB, stream 
centerline/toe of slope, dripline for the north bank riparian vegetation, and the slope and watercourse setbacks. 
New buildings proposed by the project avoid both setbacks.  
 
Riparian Impacts under CEQA. The proposed project associated with this riparian setback survey is 
anticipated to have less than significant impacts on the riparian area and no impacts on the creek itself. The

--- page 171 ---
5 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
proposed project will not be removing any riparian trees or trees within the riparian corridor, and has been 
designed to avoid all impacts to the creek, creek banks, and riparian corridor. Tree protection zones will be 
established around all trees to be preserved by the project, with arborist monitoring for work that must occur 
within these zones. Project activities are planned as replacement-in-kind within the existing developed footprint. 
However, any development that may occur under the riparian canopy that overhangs the site will only affect the 
existing developed habitat, and will not introduce new buildings within this area. Within the developed area under 
the overhanging riparian canopy and adjacent to this area within the setback, existing landscaping will be updated 
for landscaping consistent with the requirements of the Early Childhood Center, such as garden nooks, a 
vegetable garden and sand and mud play areas. There would be no new hardscape under the riparian canopy and 
no increase in hardscape within the setback area from existing conditions.  
 
Implementation of the proposed project could result in temporary impacts to the adjacent mixed riparian 
woodland habitat (i.e., trimming of riparian trees or minor impacts to roots) as a result of construction in the 
landscaped urban-suburban strip along the riparian canopy edge (Figure 2), however these impacts are expected 
to be minor, would restore naturally after construction, and would not constitute a permanent reduction in 
riparian canopy. During construction, the riparian trees and the sensitive areas below TOB would be protected 
with appropriate Best Management Practices (BMPs), which may include fiber rolls and Environmentally 
Sensitive Area fencing. The project would not be expected to introduce additional human presence within the 
riparian habitat, as there are no plans for the Center to utilize, develop, or in any other way permanently impact 
the riparian habitat or creek. Given the existing levels of disturbance, the replacement of existing landscaping 
with new landscaping (thus not increasing hardscape within the developed area under the riparian canopy), the 
implementation of BMPs that will be utilized by the project to protect the sensitive riparian habitat and the stream, 
and the lack of any permanent disturbance to any sensitive riparian habitat or areas below TOB, and the full 
avoidance of both applicable City setbacks for the new building, the impacts to riparian habitats from the project 
would be considered less than significant.

--- page 172 ---
A-1 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
Appendix A. Figures

--- page 173 ---
Mateo
ark
Park
hlands
Cyp
S B St
Aragon Blvd
Laurel Ave
sworth Ave
Norton St
B
ar
neson Ave
19th Av
e
P
alm
A
ve
W
Poplar Ave
B
r
idg
e R
d
Notre Dame Ave
Up
la
n
ds
Dr
Tilton
Oregon Ave
S
ierr
a
Dr
Elm St
Avila Rd
L
eslie
St
E 16th
Ave
E
3r
W 3r
d
A
v
e
San Mateo
County
Fairgrounds
Aragon High
School
Nineteenth
Avenue Park
Downtown San
Mateo
Baywood
Beresford
Manor
East San
Mateo
Aragon
South
Shoreview
Hillsborough
Heights
Foothill Terrace
Baywood
Knolls
Sunnybrae
San Mateo
92
P
arrott
Dr
27th Ave
28th Ave
36th Ave
Edison St
42n
d
Ave
24th Ave
To
u
rna
ment Dr
30th Ave
A
s
c
en
s
ion D
r
W
Hi
ll
sdal
e
B
lvd
Hillsdale
Shopping
Center
Laurelwood
Park
College of San
Mateo
Southwest
Hillsdale
College
Heights
Northeast
Hillsdale
Laurelwood
Country Club
Heights
Northwest
Hillsdale
nds-Baywood
Park
Saratoga Dr
Kehoe
Eisenhower St
Parksi
Fiesta Gardens
L
y
on
Ave
A
l
Southeast
Hillsdale
Bay Meadows
^_
^_
^_
^_
^_
^_
^_
^_
_
^_
SACRAMENTO
CALAVERAS
PLACER
MARIPOSA
TUOLUMNE
EL DORADO
SAN JOAQUIN
MERCED
STANISLAUS
AMADOR
Auburn
and
Placerville
Sacramento
Jackson
San Andreas
Stockton
Sonora
Modesto
Merced
N:\Projects4900\4907-01\Reports\Riparian Setback Assessment\Riparian Setback Assessment.aprx
2,000
0
2,000
1,000
US Feet
±
Figure 1. Vicinity Map
Project
Vicinity
California
Project Location
Carey School Riparian Setback Assessment (4907-01) 
October 2025

--- page 174 ---
La Salle Dr
Carey Elementary School
Background: NearMap Imagery (09/02/24)
N:\Projects4900\4907-01\Reports\Riparian Setback Assessment\Riparian Setback Assessment.aprx
40
0
40
20
Feet
±
Project Parcel
Stream Centerline / Toe of Slope
Top of Bank
Slope Setback
Watercourse Setback
Riparian Canopy
Figure 2. Carey School Riparian Setback
Carey School Riparian Setback Assessment (4907-01) 
October 2025
Carey School Ln

--- page 175 ---
B-1 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
Appendix B. Photo-documentation 
 
Photo 1. Photo of developed habitat west of project site. Photo taken 
October 30, 2024, facing south.  
 
Photo 2. Photo of bank stabilization along north bank at western end 
of project site. Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing east.

--- page 176 ---
B-2 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
 
Photo 3. Chain-link fence and handmade water flow structure, 
obstructed by oleander (Nerium sp.). Photo taken October 
30, 2024, facing southwest. 
 
Photo 4. Representative photo of riparian habitat present adjacent to 
unnamed Creek. Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing east.

--- page 177 ---
B-3 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
 
Photo 5. Photo of redwood rooted above top of slope. Photo taken 
October 30, 2024, facing east.  
 
Photo 6. Photo of planted redwoods (Sequoia sempervirens), with the 
redwood from Photo 5 at the end, in residential backyard. 
Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing south.

--- page 178 ---
B-4 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
 
Photo 7. Photo of encaged, 3-foot-wide culvert at east end of 
unnamed creek. Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing east.  
 
Photo 8. Photo of 1-foot-wide storm drainage pipe extending out from 
the southern bank. Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing 
south.

--- page 179 ---
B-5 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 
 
Photo 9. Photo of the water drainage at the western end of the creek. 
Photo taken October 30, 2024, facing west.

--- page 180 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Simin Zakavand
Sent:
Thursday, February 13, 2025 4:43 PM
To:
Subject:
RE: Carey Expansion Plan for pre school development
 
Hi Patrick, 
 
Thank you for reaching out and sharing your comments. Please note that the project has not yet been 
submitted. However, we anticipate that the Planning Commission will serve as the recommending body, 
with the City Council making the final decision. The City Council’s decision is final and not subject to 
appeal. That said, we welcome comments throughout the process. 
 
Once the applicant submits their application, we will add the project and the proposed plans to the 
City’s "What’s Happening" page and will notify neighbors within a 1,000-foot radius before the public 
hearings. Additionally, the project will be reviewed in accordance with the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA). 
 
If you have any other questions fee free to reach out to me.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Simin Zakavand, AICP (She/Her) 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7219 | szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: Patrick Dolan 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 4:35 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey Expansion Plan for pre school development 
 
To Whom it may concern, 
 
I am a concerned resident regarding the Carey Expansion plan and want to understand the process that 
Carey must go through in order to proceed with their plan. 
 
1) I would like to know who are the key decision making people when it comes to approving this 
development.  And any requirements that need to be met before approval can be given. Whether or 
not an environmental impact study would be required since the project will: 
a) have some significant air quality and noise level impacts

--- page 181 ---
2
b) have adverse impact on the flora and fauna in the area 
c) have adverse impact on traffic 
d) degrade the quality of the immediate neighborhood  
 
2. Deadlines for any public comment. 
3. Any appeal procedure. 
 
I would also like to know what is the most effective way to stop such a development while being 
supportive of all the individuals involved.  I am not interested in making people upset but rather trying to 
point out why I believe this particular project is going to be detrimental to the whole community at large. 
 
Thank you for any help you can give me in regards to these questions.  
 
Patrick Dolan

--- page 182 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Dolan, Patrick M <
>
Sent:
Friday, March 14, 2025 6:37 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Re: Carey School
Thanks so much for taking the time to respond Simin.  I really appreciate it.  
 
Patrick Dolan 
 
Patrick Dolan 
 
From: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 5:52:49 PM 
To: Dolan, Patrick M <
 
Subject: RE: Carey School  
  
Hi Patrick, 
  
Thank you for reaching out. Please note that the project has been recently submitted to the city, and staff 
is still conducting the first round of review. The information provided below is based on the initial 
application submitted by the applicant and may be updated as we receive additional information and 
materials in subsequent submittals. 
  
Please see my responses below in blue: 
  
1. Can you summarize this process?  The request is for a Special Use Permit and a Site Plan and 
Architectural Review to demolish the existing single-family residence and accessory dwelling unit 
(ADU) on site and construct a new early education center in a residential zoning district. The 
criteria and review process for the requested permits includes an application completeness 
review and an evaluation of compliance with the Zoning Code, General Plan, and state law 
requirements. Additionally, the project will be reviewed in compliance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Staff will review the application materials based on these 
requirements and provide comments to the applicant. Once all comments have been addressed, 
the project will be scheduled for a public hearing with prior public notification.  
  
2. Is this process documented online? Yes, the application materials and the latest updates will be 
uploaded to the "What’s Happening" page for the project. Please visit this link for the most up-to-
date information. We will continue to update the site as we receive new information from the

--- page 183 ---
2
applicant. Additionally, I will include you on our interested party list to send you notifications 
about future public hearings related to this project. 
  
3. What makes criteria like an environmental study or a traffic impact study necessary? Typically, 
project potential impacts trigger environmental studies. In this case, the project will be required 
to provide several technical studies, such as traffic, noise, and parking assessments, to 
determine the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with CEQA.  
  
4. How about laws such as SB 9 and statements from City Hall declaring they will do everything to 
preserve and increase the number of single-family residences in San Mateo. Does the planning 
department get involved in those issues? Yes, staff will evaluate the project in accordance with 
state housing laws. 
  
  
Comments are welcomed throughout the process. If you have additional questions, feel free to reach out 
to me. 
  
Thank you, 
  
  
Simin Zakavand, AICP (She/Her) 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7219 | szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
  
  
  
From: Dolan, Patrick M <
>  
Sent: Thursday, March 13, 2025 2:20 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey School 
  
Hi Simon, 
  
I am involved in a group of people who are interested in discussing and possibly stopping the Carey 
School Expansion.  I was hoping you could point me in the right direction for understanding what criteria 
the city will be using to either approve or disapprove this project.  I am assuming there is some sort of 
checklist or criteria that need to be met in order for the planning department to recommend a project 
moves forward.  
  
Can you summarize this process?   
Is this process documented online?  
What makes criteria like an environmental study or a traffic impact study necessary?  
How about laws such as SB 9 and statements from City Hall declaring they will do everything to preserve 
and increase the number of single family residences in San Mateo. Does the planning department get 
involved in those issues?

--- page 184 ---
3
  
I'm just not sure how in depth the planning department gets when issuing a yes or no to the city 
council.  And I am assuming the city council has the final say on this particular issue.   Please let me 
know if I am incorrect.   
  
I really appreciate any help you can give me, 
  
  
Patrick Dolan 
 
  
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid 
to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a 
party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication. 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified 
that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have 
received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-
mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 185 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Patrick Dolan <
Sent:
Saturday, April 26, 2025 3:30 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Re: Carey Expansion Plan for pre school development
Attachments:
Petition Against the Carey School Expansion In Our Neighborhood.pdf; signatures for 
carey.pdf
Hi Simin  
I have attached both the petition and the signatures for the people against the Carey School Expansion.  I 
may have more signatures coming but I wanted to submit what I had in order to be included with the rest 
of the information that you will be providing the City Council.  Please let me know that you have received 
this information and if there is anything else I need to do to make sure it is included.   
 
Thank you for your attention to this matter.  
 
Respectfully  
Patrick Dolan 
 
 
 
 
On Wed, Apr 23, 2025 at 10:11 AM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Good morning Patrik, 
  
Thank you for reaching out. The City has completed its first review of the Carey School application and 
deemed it incomplete as of March 20th. The applicant is currently working to address the comments 
provided by the City. 
  
Petitions and comments can be submitted to me directly via email. I am also available for a phone call 
or an online or in-person meeting, should you prefer to speak with staff.  
  
Sincerely,  
Simin 
  
From: Patrick Dolan 
  
Sent: Wednesday, April 23, 2025 9:31 AM

--- page 186 ---
2
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Carey Expansion Plan for pre school development 
  
Hi Simin, 
I was wondering if there has been any updates on the Carey School expansion that can be shared?  I 
don't see any changes in status on the website.  Additionally I have been collecting signatures from 
people in the neighborhood who are against the expansion plan.  Can you recommend who I contact to 
submit the petition and signatures over to?  Do you get the petition at this point or have I "jumped the 
gun"?  Does it get submitted to CIty Hall directly?   
  
Sorry to bother you but do appreciate any help you can provide, 
  
Respectfully  
  
Patrick Dolan

--- page 187 ---
Petition Against the Carey School Expansion In Our Neighborhood 
San Mateo, CA 
 
To:  Building Planning Department of San Mateo, The Carey School Administration 
 
We, the undersigned residents of San Mateo, are writing to express our strong 
opposition to the proposed expansion of The Carey School in our neighborhood.  While 
we respect the right of the school to grow and improve, we believe that the current 
expansion plans will have serious negative consequences for our community. 
 
We oppose the expansion for the following reasons: 
1.​
Increased Traffic and Congestion 
The proposed expansion will undoubtedly lead to a significant increase in traffic around 
our neighborhood, causing congestion and making our streets less safe.  We are 
already experiencing challenges with the current traffic, particularly during school 
drop-off and pick-up times.  The Carey School has already placed “No Parking” signs in 
the curve of La Salle Street, noting there is “No Parking” during 8:00-8:30 a.m. and 
2:30-3:30 p.m.  These signs are seemingly illegal as there is no enforcing municipal 
code cited on the signs.  La Salle is a city street NOT the driveway to The Carey 
School.  The homeowners on this street pay taxes to support the roadways of the City 
of San Mateo, and should have an expectation that La Salle not be completely blocked 
for two hours each and every school day.  There is typically no way for emergency 
vehicles to access La Salle during the very congested drop-off and pick-up times.  Also, 
residents who are legally parked on La Salle during these times cannot move their 
vehicles off the street because they are blocked by cars lined up in the middle of the 
street waiting to pick up their students.  This expansion will exacerbate these issues, 
endangering the safety of children and pedestrians, as well as causing delays for 
residents. 
2.​
Environmental Impact 
The expansion will lead to increased construction and additional environmental strain, 
including noise, air pollution, and the reduction of some green space.  There are plans 
to eliminate 10 to 20 mature trees and it is unclear whether these trees have been 
inspected to see if they are considered protected heritage trees.  Our neighborhood’s 
natural beauty and quality of life would be compromised.  
3.​
Increased Noise Pollution 
An expanded school with more students and facilities will lead to an increase in noise 
pollution in the area.  This could negatively impact the well-being and mental health of 
residents, especially those living close to the school.  We value our quiet, residential 
environment, and believe the expansion would disrupt that peace.  Adding up to 75 
students playing outside, even closer to residences than the current set-up, will be 
problematic at best.

--- page 188 ---
4.​
Strain on Parking 
The streets surrounding The Carey School - 20th Avenue, Alameda de las Pulgas and 
La Salle - are already massively impacted with vehicles parking during school hours and 
after hour events.  Adding even more teachers, administrative staff, parents, and 
delivery trucks will make our residential neighborhood parking almost impossible.  There 
are many homeowners and renters at the abutting Gardens condominium complex who 
have more than one car and utilize the neighborhood for parking.  As homeowners, we 
again are paying taxes for the upkeep and typical use of these streets which should 
include a reasonable expectation of street parking. 
5.​
Loss of Residential Character 
Our neighborhood is primarily residential, and the expansion of The Carey School would 
change the character of the area, turning it into a more commercialized zone.  This 
would have a lasting impact on the sense of community and the desirability of our 
neighborhood for current and future residents. 
6.​
Property Value Concerns 
The proposed expansion could significantly decrease property values in the immediate 
vicinity due to increased traffic, noise, and disruption.  Many residents have invested in 
their homes with the understanding that the neighborhood would remain a quiet, 
residential area.  An expansion of this magnitude could undermine that investment.  
Our Request 
We ask the Building and Planning Department of San Mateo and The Carey School 
administration to reconsider the proposed expansion plans.  We urge the authorities to 
explore alternative solutions that prioritize the needs and concerns of current residents, 
including: 
●​ Implementing more comprehensive traffic studies and ensuring safer 
pedestrian pathways and emergency vehicle access. 
●​ Seeking ways to minimize environmental and neighborhood impact if 
construction occurs. 
●​ Exploring other options for The Carey School expansion for a preschool 
childcare center at some of their other property assets. 
We believe that with thoughtful planning, both the school and the community can thrive 
without any further expansion plans for The Carey School.

--- page 189 ---
Petition Opposing The Carey School Expansion
March/April 2025

No. Name Signature _ - Address

10.

5

12.

13.

14.

15.

af

18.

19.

20.


--- page 190 ---
Petition Opposing The Carey School Expansion

March/April 2025

Name Signature Address

Dawn ir 7) ED)



--- page 191 ---
Petition Opposing The Carey School Expansion
March/April 2025

No. Name Signature Address

4, Bryan AR (heca €, DY on
[y

3:
4.
DIS
5. Gil ror,
6. ~ LO <a

7. Gail Lee AI

8. bu = Yijgtst ==
9. , FOUL :

10.
11.
12.
13. —_—
14.
15.
16.
Tf, eens
18.
19.
20.


--- page 192 ---
Petition Opposing The Carey School Expansion

March/April 2025
No. Name Signature Address
2.
3.
4.



--- page 193 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Simin Zakavand
Sent:
Monday, May 12, 2025 8:25 AM
To:
cong ho
Subject:
RE: Concern Regarding Proposed Project at 2033 La Salle Drive (The Carey School)
Good morning, 
 
Thank you for reaching out and for your comments. Please note that the project is still under review by 
the City and has not yet been scheduled for any public hearings. However, neighbors are welcome to 
submit their comments via email to me at any time during the application review process. I will include 
all received comments in my report to the Planning Commission and City Council. 
 
The project is expected to go before the Planning Commission as a recommending body and then to the 
City Council, which will serve as the final decision-making authority. If you live within a 1,000-foot radius 
of the project site, you will receive a mailed notice prior to any public hearing or you can check the 
website for the latest updates regarding the meetings. You are welcome to attend these meetings in 
person to voice your concerns. 
 
 
Thanks, 
 
Simin Zakavand, AICP (She/Her) 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7219 | szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: cong ho <
Sent: Friday, May 9, 2025 9:43 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Concern Regarding Proposed Project at 2033 La Salle Drive (The Carey School) 
 
Dear Ms. Zakavand and the City of San Mateo Planning Division, 
 
I am writing as a concerned neighbor regarding the proposed project at 2033 La Salle Drive by The Carey 
School, as listed on your website here: 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4857/2033-La-Salle-Drive-The-Carey-School. 
 
While I understand the importance of early childhood education, I am very concerned about the 
conversion of a residential single-family lot into a commercial use, which would reduce much-needed 
housing stock in our already tight residential market. The neighborhood is not zoned for large-scale

--- page 194 ---
2
educational facilities, and this proposal seems misaligned with the current residential character of the 
area. 
 
Additional concerns include: 
 
Traffic and Safety: The addition of 75 more students, along with their families, faculty, and staff, will 
drastically increase vehicle traffic and congestion during drop-off and pick-up times. This raises serious 
safety concerns for pedestrians and residents. 
 
Parking: Street parking is extremely limited, and this project will further reduce available space for local 
residents. 
 
Noise and Environmental Impact: Increased activity, including outdoor play and vehicle movement, will 
likely raise noise levels and negatively impact the quality of life for neighbors. 
 
 
I would like to know how neighbors can formally submit objections or provide comments as part of the 
planning application review process. Are there public hearings or additional opportunities for community 
input? Can objections be submitted in writing to be included in the planning staff report? 
 
Thank you for your attention to this matter. I would appreciate any information you can provide regarding 
the next steps for public engagement or submitting formal comments. 
 
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Neighbor

--- page 195 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Patrick Dolan <
Sent:
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 1:07 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Re: Carey School
Hi Simin, 
 
Thanks for being so helpful I really appreciate it.  Additionally I acknowledge that these are just the initial 
documents and may not reflect the final draft that gets included into the final submission.   
 
All my best,  
Patrick Dolan  
 
On Wed, Aug 13, 2025 at 1:03 PM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Patrick, 
  
See attached documents and my notes below. Please note we are still in the review process and these 
documents have not been approved yet. The city may have additional comments on the materials 
submitted by the applicant as we are still going through the review process.  
  
Sincerely,  
Simin 
  
From: Patrick Dolan 
  
Sent: Wednesday, August 13, 2025 12:20 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Carey School 
  
Hi Simin, 
  
I just checked the website but cannot see the following documents that were transmitted to the city:

--- page 196 ---
2
  Attachment 15 - 2nd Incompleteness Letter Response Matrix dated July 22, 2025 Attached 
Attachment 16 - Updated Neighborhood Meeting Attendees Contact Information This may not be shared 
as it has the attendee’s contact information 
 Attachment 17 - CEQA Exemption Memo dated July 14, 2025 (updated from previous submittal - no city 
response received on previously transmitted version) Attached 
 Attachment 18 - Housing Crisis Act Memo revised July 17, 2025 This is on the website  
 Attachment 19 - Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum for 2033 La Salle Drive prepared by Kimley 
Horn dated July 22, 2025 Attached 
 Attachment 20 - Parking License Agreement dated July 25, 2018 This may not be shared at this point as 
it has contact information. I will follow up with you on if we can redact the confidential information and 
share the rest. 
Attachment 21 - Amended Parking License Agreement dated February 6, 2025  This may not be shared 
at this point as it has contact information. I will follow up with you on if we can redact the confidential 
information and share the rest. 
  
Where (or how) can I get access to these relevant documents?  Sorry to bother you and really do 
appreciate your help.  
  
Patrick Dolan 
  
On Wed, Aug 13, 2025 at 11:55 AM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Patrick, 
  
Thank you for reaching out. We are reviewing the 3rd cycle review of this application. The plans and 
additional documents are uploaded in the website for the most recent submittal. There is no addition 
update at this point as the project has not been deemed complete yet. Please revisit the project 
website next week or reach out to me for the latest updates on the 3rd cycle review.  
  
Sincerely,  
Simin

--- page 197 ---
3
From: Patrick Dolan 
Sent: Wednesday, August 13, 2025 11:03 AM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Carey School 
  
Hi Simin, 
  Not sure what a 2nd cycle review entails but , (given that it was started in June and now it is August),  I 
am wondering if there is some sort of additional information available regarding Carey School 
expansion.   Just noting that I believe the city required a traffic study to be done by Carey School and 
am wondering about the processes followed for the study and whether that information is available for 
the public to review.  I am fairly certain that the current owner of the property (that Carey school is 
interested in purchasing) is having their renters move out this month. I am just curious if there are 
additional documented conversations or documents that perhaps can't be placed on the website but 
might be available to view in person?  I just want to make sure that I have time to sufficiently decide 
how to proceed (and digest any studies) before a scheduled city council meeting to approve or not 
approve.  Hope this makes sense.  
  
All my best, 
  
Patrick Dolan 
  
  
  
On Tue, Jun 10, 2025 at 1:00 PM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Patrick, 
  
The applicant has resubmitted on April 13, and the project is under 2nd cycle review. We will post new 
updates, additional documents/technical studies on the website once the application is deemed 
complete and ready to be scheduled for public hearings.  
  
Sincerely,  
Simin

--- page 198 ---
4
  
From: Patrick Dolan 
  
Sent: Tuesday, June 10, 2025 12:48 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey School 
  
Hi Simin  
  
Hope you are well.  I am following up on the Carey School.  I notice there hasn't been any updates to 
date online.  Am I missing something?  Is there any additional information available at this point?  
  
Thanks so much 
  
Patrick Dolan 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is 
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information 
that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are 
hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by 
telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your 
computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is 
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information 
that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If 
you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or 
by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you. 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 199 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Patrick Dolan <
Sent:
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 5:32 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Letter of concern regarding Traffic study for Carey School
Attachments:
Carey Traffic impact letter.docx
Hi Simin, 
Thank you again for your assistance throughout this process.  I wanted to (along with some neighbors) 
write to the planning commission and the City Council about issues regarding the current traffic study.  I 
know the TCS review hasn't been completed yet by your staff, but didn't want to miss the opportunity to 
let you (and the planning department) know about some of the concerns of the community at large with 
the study that was submitted to the City.   
 
Thanks again  
 
Patrick Dolan

--- page 200 ---
Patrick Dolan 
 
San Mateo Planning Commission / City Council 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: Public Comment – Carey School Early Childhood Center (2033 La Salle Drive) 
Dear Commissioners / Councilmembers, 
As a concerned neighbor/resident, I appreciate the importance of expanding early childhood 
services in San Mateo. However, I respectfully request that the Planning Commission and City 
Council delay approving the proposed development at 2033 La Salle Drive until the applicant 
submits a revised traffic, parking, and safety analysis that reflects real-world conditions and 
addresses key deficiencies in the current documentation. 
Key Traffic & Neighborhood Concerns 
1. Incomplete and Possibly Outdated Traffic Data 
o While the project has submitted a Traffic and Parking Evaluation 
Memorandum prepared by Kimley Horn dated July 22, 2025 City of San 
Mateo, it is unclear whether the traffic counts reflect current neighborhood 
volumes during school hours or considers that a 60% car share rate is going to be 
maintainable or enforceable (notice current rate is only 50% with 40 students).  
Google has spent millions of dollars trying to achieve a 60% car share rate at their 
facilities only to find that they are unattainable. There is no detailed plan in place 
from TCS for maintaining this ratio.   
2. Peak-Hour Congestion Not Adequately Addressed 
o The memo references a “staggered drop-off/pick-up schedule,” but there is no 
detailed intersection turning movement analysis during critical AM/PM peak 
periods. Without this, it's impossible to assess congestion on La Salle Drive or 
adjacent routes. 
3. Potential Parking Spillover 
o Even with parking agreements in place City of San Mateo, the increase in students 
(up to 75 preschoolers) and staff is likely to overload available parking, pushing 
vehicles into nearby residential zones. Assumptions were made when calculating 
the parking stipulation including “specific tenant occupancy percentage” instead 
of a 100% occupancy rate. I believe this is a manipulation of the data that is 
unjustified if/when occupancy rates hit 100% for the 1900-2000 Alameda de las 
Pulgas complex.

--- page 201 ---
4. Safety for Children and Pedestrians Overlooked 
o There is no mention of pedestrian or bicycle safety improvements such as 
crosswalk enhancements, traffic calming, or signage—critical given the proximity 
to Serra High School and residential streets. 
 
Appendix: Traffic Evaluation Flaws Table 
Flaw / Issue 
Description 
Suggested Evidence / Remedy 
1. Outdated or Non-
Peak Traffic Data 
July 2025 study may not 
reflect current AM/PM 
school trip counts
Request current peak-hour turning 
movement counts during school days 
2. No Intersection-Level 
LOS Analysis 
Lacks data on delay, 
queue lengths, LOS 
(Level of Service) at La 
Salle Drive intersections
Require intersection analysis per City LOS 
thresholds (LOS D max) 
cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org 
3. Incomplete 
Cumulative Impact 
Does not consider traffic 
from the main campus or 
adjacent developments
Include cumulative modeling of nearby 
Carey operations and others 
4. Assumed Staggered 
Schedule 
“Staggered schedule” is 
asserted but not backed 
by data or enforceability
Provide enforceable schedule plan and 
monitor compliance 
5. Parking Overflow 
Risk 
Relies on off-site 
agreements but ignores 
possible overflow during 
peak
Show real-world occupancy data and 
include overflow mitigation 
6. Missing Ped/Bike 
Safety Measures 
No features like marked 
crosswalks, calming, or 
signage for vulnerable 
road users
Propose bike/pedestrian safety 
enhancements and funding plan 
7. No 
Monitoring/Mitigation 
Plan 
No commitment to post-
completion audits or 
adjustments if traffic 
issues emerge
Add enforceable monitoring and 
mitigation timeline

--- page 202 ---
What I Urge the City to Require 
For transparency and community protection, I respectfully ask that the application be updated to 
include: 
1. A comprehensive traffic study with current peak-hour data, intersection LOS analysis, 
and cumulative impacts.  
2. Enforceable mitigation measures, including physical safety improvements (like 
crosswalks, signage) and a robust parking management plan. 
3. A monitoring plan with defined responsibilities, timeframes, and enforcement 
mechanisms to respond to unanticipated issues pre-opening and post-opening. Including 
but not limited to decreases in the percentages of ride share participants.  
Approving the project without this updated analysis risks neighborhood safety, traffic 
congestion, and residents' quality of life. I appreciate the City’s commitment to balancing 
community needs with development, and look forward to a solution that supports childcare 
access and safe, livable neighborhoods. 
Thank you for considering these comments. 
Sincerely, 
Patrick Dolan 
Additional neighbors who are in agreement with this letter and may be considered co-signees 
are: 
Karen Schuckman: 
Sally Johnson: 
Peggy and David Karp: 
Sandra and Karl Dahlin:

--- page 203 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Simin Zakavand
Sent:
Friday, September 5, 2025 8:36 AM
To:
Patrick Dolan
Subject:
RE: Carey School Expansion
Good morning Patrick, 
 
I am confirming receipt of your letter. Thank you! 
 
Sincerely,  
Simin 
 
From: Patrick Dolan 
>  
Sent: Wednesday, September 3, 2025 5:09 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey School Expansion 
 
HI Simin, 
 
Hope you are well.  I have another letter for the planning commission in regards to the Carey School 
Expansion.  I apologize that I am submitting these documents in a piecemeal fashion rather than all 
together.  Hope this doesn't cause too much trouble for you.  
 
All my best  
 
Patrick Dolan

--- page 204 ---
Patrick Dolan 
9/2/2025 
To: 
City of San Mateo Planning Department 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: Objection to CEQA Exemption for The Carey School Early Childhood Center Project 
(2033 La Salle Drive) 
Dear Planning Department, 
I am writing to object to the use of a CEQA categorical exemption for The Carey School Early 
Childhood Center project at 2033 La Salle Drive. The applicant’s CEQA Exemption Memo 
dated July 14, 2025, relies on Class 32 (Infill Development) and Class 3 (Small Structures). 
However, neither exemption is appropriate for this institutional project, and several exceptions to 
categorical exemptions apply. 
 
1. Institutional Use Does Not Fit Claimed Exemptions 
The proposed early childhood center is an institutional land use in a single-family (R1-B) 
residential zone, requiring a Special Use Permit. CEQA’s Class 32 exemption is designed for 
residential and commercial infill, not institutional facilities. Likewise, Class 3 is intended for 
“stores, offices, or similar structures” up to 10,000 sq ft — not schools. Attempting to analogize 
a preschool to a “store or office” is a misapplication of the exemption and conflicts with the rule 
that categorical exemptions must be construed narrowly (CEQA Guidelines §15061(b)(2)). 
 
2. Unusual Circumstances Exception (§15300.2(c)) 
Even if a categorical exemption were arguably applicable, the unusual circumstances exception 
invalidates it. 
• 
The project introduces a new institutional facility for 75 students in the middle of a 
single-family neighborhood, separated from the Carey School campus by a creek. 
• 
This is not a typical use in the surrounding R1 zone and constitutes an unusual 
circumstance.

--- page 205 ---
• 
Under Berkeley Hillside Preservation v. City of Berkeley (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1086, an 
exemption cannot be used where unusual circumstances create a reasonable possibility of 
significant impacts. 
Here, traffic congestion, parking overflow, and neighborhood incompatibility present precisely 
that possibility. 
 
3. Traffic and Parking Impacts 
The memo dismisses traffic impacts under C/CAG’s “small project” screening (<110 trips/day). 
This is inadequate because: 
• 
Childcare facilities generate intense, peak-hour trip patterns with clustered drop-offs 
and pick-ups, unlike the dispersed traffic from offices or stores. 
• 
This creates localized congestion and safety hazards that are not captured by daily trip 
counts. 
• 
CEQA requires consideration of the project’s actual operating characteristics, not 
reliance on generic thresholds. 
Given the narrow neighborhood streets and proximity to Serra High School, there is a reasonable 
possibility of significant traffic and safety impacts. 
 
4. Creekside and Tree Impacts 
The site is adjacent to a creek and contains mature trees. The memo downplays these resources, 
yet: 
• 
CEQA prohibits exemptions where scenic or biological resources may be affected 
(§15300.2(d)). 
• 
If protected or heritage trees are removed, or if runoff and impervious surface expansion 
affect creek conditions, the exemption cannot apply. 
• 
A Riparian Setback Assessment alone does not substitute for a full CEQA analysis of 
hydrology, water quality, and tree canopy impacts. 
 
5. General Plan and Zoning Consistency 
Class 32 requires strict consistency with the General Plan and zoning. The General Plan 
designates the site as Single Family, and a school use is only allowed with a Special Use 
Permit. This discretionary overlay demonstrates inconsistency with the base designation, further 
undermining Class 32 eligibility.

--- page 206 ---
Conclusion 
The Carey School project does not qualify for a CEQA exemption. It is an institutional 
development in a residential neighborhood, and its potential impacts — traffic, parking, creek 
adjacency, and tree removal — create unusual circumstances requiring further review. 
At a minimum, the City should prepare an Initial Study to evaluate these issues and determine 
whether a Mitigated Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact Report is required. 
Proceeding by exemption would be legally vulnerable and inconsistent with CEQA’s 
requirements. 
Thank you for your consideration of these comments. 
Sincerely, 
Patrick Dolan 
 Co-Signing: 
Helen Alfassa 
Karen Schuman 
Peggy Karp

--- page 207 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Zachary Dahl
Sent:
Thursday, August 21, 2025 4:10 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Cc:
Elaine Ling; Joanna Winter
Subject:
FW: Carey School  Expansion 
FYI 
 
Zachary Dahl, AICP 
Director, Community Development 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Sue Loeﬄer <
>  
Sent: Thursday, August 21, 2025 4:06 PM 
To: Neely Norris <n
> 
Cc: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey School Expansion  
 
Hello, 
 
We received a packet from the Cruz family (2033 LaSalle) reques?ng our endorsement of the Carey project. 
 
We are holding ﬁrm on our opposi?on to this project. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 208 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Zachary Dahl
Sent:
Thursday, September 11, 2025 8:51 AM
To:
Simin Zakavand; Somer Smith
Cc:
Elaine Ling; Joanna Winter
Subject:
FW: Carey Impact
FYI 
 
Zachary Dahl, AICP 
Director, Community Development 
 
From: Dean C. Smith 
Sent: Wednesday, September 10, 2025 6:56 PM 
To: Sue Loeffler 
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Traffic 
<traffic@cityofsanmateo.org>; Neely Norris <
> 
Subject: Re: Carey Impact 
 
Thank you for letting us know! 
Our neighborhood is too busy as it is! 
 
Tonight I can't even park my NewsVan for blocks because of a "Carey School Event". 
 
So I have to BLOCK my own driveway! 
 
It's 7PM and I still can not pull up to my usual spot. 
These parents are not following the rules. 
And on top of the SERRA PRACTICES right now. Both Football and Water Polo! 
AGHHHHHHHHH! 
 
 
On Wed, Sep 10, 2025 at 6:51 PM Sue Loeffler <
 wrote: 
Hello, 
 
I was walking home from Beresford today at ~ 3:00 ( Carey PU time ) . There was a solid line of cars 
originating at 24th. Most were idling , all red zones occupied , and some cars with hazard lights on .  
 
I suggest anyone endorsing the Carey School Project and its ’ benefit to the community’ witness this 
impact. 
 
Sue Loeffler

--- page 209 ---
2
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 210 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
C H 
Sent:
Sunday, September 7, 2025 9:32 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Re: Concern Regarding Proposed Project at 2033 La Salle Drive (The Carey School)
Dear Ms. Zakavand, 
 
 
Thank you again for your guidance on the review process for The Carey School’s proposed project at 
2033 La Salle Drive.  I am writing to provide additional comments after reviewing the school’s application 
materials, and to reiterate my strong opposition to The Carey School’s proposed project at 2033 La Salle 
Drive, particularly in light of the claims made in their application. 
 
The school insists that this project will address “neighborhood childcare needs.” That is simply not true. 
My family, along with many others who live in the immediate neighborhood, have applied to Carey 
multiple times over the years and not a single one of our children has been admitted as far as I know. 
Meanwhile, families from Burlingame and Hillsborough are routinely accepted. This pattern makes it 
abundantly clear that the school does not serve our local community’s children, and it is misleading for 
them to suggest otherwise. 
 
For an institution that calls itself a nonprofit, Carey’s actions demonstrate a very different set of 
priorities. Rather than focusing on serving San Mateo families, they appear to favor applicants from more 
affluent neighboring cities. This raises serious questions about their credibility and motives. Moreover, 
the school’s purchase of another residential property at 494 22nd Avenue a few years ago further 
suggests that they are acting more like a real estate investor than an educational institution dedicated to 
the surrounding community. 
 
Approving this project would mean eliminating a residential lot in a neighborhood already struggling with 
housing shortages and replacing it with a facility that does not serve the local population as claimed. 
Instead, it will add more traffic, more noise, and more disruption—while providing no real benefit to the 
families who actually live here. 
 
I urge the Planning Commission and City Council to look past the school’s polished application language 
and weigh their actions and track record. Carey’s proposal does not align with the City’s stated goals of 
equitable access to childcare or preserving neighborhood character. It should not be approved. 
 
Thank you for ensuring these comments are included in the staff report and for holding the school 
accountable to the community it claims to serve. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
A Concerned Neighbor  
 
On Mon, May 12, 2025, 9:44 AM cong ho 
 wrote:

--- page 211 ---
2
Hi Ms. Zakavand, 
Thank you for your prompt response and for providing clarity on the review process for the proposed 
project at 2033 La Salle Drive. 
I appreciate the opportunity to submit comments during the application review period and will continue 
to monitor the project’s progress through the City’s website. I also appreciate knowing that my feedback 
will be included in your report to the Planning Commission and City Council. 
Thank you again for your time and for keeping the community informed. 
Best regards. 
 
On Mon, May 12, 2025, 8:24 AM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Good morning, 
  
Thank you for reaching out and for your comments. Please note that the project is still under review by 
the City and has not yet been scheduled for any public hearings. However, neighbors are welcome to 
submit their comments via email to me at any time during the application review process. I will include 
all received comments in my report to the Planning Commission and City Council. 
  
The project is expected to go before the Planning Commission as a recommending body and then to 
the City Council, which will serve as the final decision-making authority. If you live within a 1,000-foot 
radius of the project site, you will receive a mailed notice prior to any public hearing or you can check 
the website for the latest updates regarding the meetings. You are welcome to attend these meetings 
in person to voice your concerns. 
  
  
Thanks, 
  
Simin Zakavand, AICP (She/Her) 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7219 | szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 212 ---
3
 
  
  
  
From: cong ho <
Sent: Friday, May 9, 2025 9:43 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Concern Regarding Proposed Project at 2033 La Salle Drive (The Carey School) 
  
Dear Ms. Zakavand and the City of San Mateo Planning Division, 
  
I am writing as a concerned neighbor regarding the proposed project at 2033 La Salle Drive by The 
Carey School, as listed on your website here: 
  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4857/2033-La-Salle-Drive-The-Carey-School. 
  
While I understand the importance of early childhood education, I am very concerned about the 
conversion of a residential single-family lot into a commercial use, which would reduce much-needed 
housing stock in our already tight residential market. The neighborhood is not zoned for large-scale 
educational facilities, and this proposal seems misaligned with the current residential character of the 
area. 
  
Additional concerns include: 
  
Traffic and Safety: The addition of 75 more students, along with their families, faculty, and staff, will 
drastically increase vehicle traffic and congestion during drop-off and pick-up times. This raises 
serious safety concerns for pedestrians and residents. 
  
Parking: Street parking is extremely limited, and this project will further reduce available space for local 
residents.

--- page 213 ---
4
  
Noise and Environmental Impact: Increased activity, including outdoor play and vehicle movement, 
will likely raise noise levels and negatively impact the quality of life for neighbors. 
  
  
I would like to know how neighbors can formally submit objections or provide comments as part of the 
planning application review process. Are there public hearings or additional opportunities for 
community input? Can objections be submitted in writing to be included in the planning staff report? 
  
Thank you for your attention to this matter. I would appreciate any information you can provide 
regarding the next steps for public engagement or submitting formal comments. 
  
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Neighbor 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is 
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information 
that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If 
you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or 
by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 214 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Marc Acton 
Sent:
Thursday, September 11, 2025 7:56 PM
To:
Alex Khojikian; City Council (San Mateo); Simin Zakavand; Elaine Ling; Zachary Dahl; Rob 
Newsom; Adam Loraine; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki; Nicole Fernandez; Lisa Diaz Nash
Subject:
Support for Proposed Preschool at 2033 La Salle Drive
Attachments:
petition signatures.pdf
Categories:
Follow Up
Dear Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission, City Council and State Officials: 
We, the undersigned, respectfully submit this petition in support of the proposed preschool located at 
2033 La Salle Drive, in a single-family neighborhood in the City of San Mateo. This project addresses a 
critical and well-documented need for quality early childhood education and care within our community. 
Attached you will find our full petition and signatures in support of this important community project. 
As Carey School parents, one of our children is a Carey graduate and the other is a current 4th grader, we 
have seen firsthand the exceptional education, care, and community that Carey provides. It would have 
been wonderful to have had access to a preschool of this caliber in this area when our children were 
younger, and we know how valuable it will be for families in San Mateo today. 
Thank you, 
Marc and Jennifer Acton

--- page 215 ---
July 11, 2025

City of San Mateo

City Councilmembers
Planning Commissioners
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Subject: The Carey School Early Childhood Center, 2033 La Salle Drive, San Mateo, CA
Dear Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission and City Council,

We, the undersigned, respectfully submit this petition in support of the proposed preschool
located at 2033 La Salle Drive, in a single-family neighborhood in the City of San Mateo. This
project addresses a critical and well-documented need for quality early childhood education and
care within our community.

Addressing Community Need:

San Mateo and the broader County of San Mateo face a significant shortage of childcare
spaces. Needs assessments consistently demonstrate that demand for quality early education
far exceeds the available supply. This shortage leaves working families with limited options,
often resulting in long waitlists and childcare arrangements that do not meet the developmental
needs of our youngest residents. The proposed preschool seeks to alleviate part of this burden
by providing a nurturing, local option for families, including subsidized care for up to 15% of the
spaces.

Alignment with City Policies:

The City of San Mateo’s General Plan outlines clear policies and goals supporting the

expansion of childcare services within neighborhoods. Promoting !ocal childcare not only aligns
with these policies but also strengthens the community by supporting working families, fostering
early childhood development, and contributing to the overall well-being of San Mateo residents.

Balancing Neighborhood Concerns:

We acknowledge the concerns raised by neighboring homeowners, primarily regarding traffic
and noise. In response, this summer we will be conducting a voluntary traffic study and noise
study to evaluate potential impacts. Furthermore, proactive measures will be implemented to
minimize disruptions, including staggered drop-off and pick-up schedules, designated parking
solutions, and sound-mitigating landscaping and building orientation. We will also have school
staff monitoring 20th and La Salle at drop off and pick up. We believe these measures will
address the valid concerns of residents while allowing the community to benefit from
much-needed childcare services.


--- page 216 ---
The Head of School at The Carey School, Neely Norris, has provided her email address

land phone number | neighbors and is available to
discuss the plan as well as address any concerns as neighbor relations is important to the
school. The school is also planning to invite neighbors to campus in early September to discuss
the project and share findings from the technical studies performed. Email addresses collected
below will be used for invitations to this neighborhood meeting.

‘Conclusion: _

We urge the City to recognize the importance of balancing neighborhood concerns with the
critical need for accessible, quality childcare as outlined in its own General Plan. The proposed
preschool represents a thoughtful, community-focused solution to a documented problem, with
mitigation strategies in place to minimize local impacts.

We respectfully ask for your support of this project to help bridge the childcare gap in San Mateo
and provide families with the resources they need to thrive.

Signed,

| |
Manet B/tz.

oaeécdkels |



--- page 217 ---
The Head of School at The Carey School, Neely Norris, has provided her email address

and phone number a: neighbors and is available to
discuss the plan as well as address any concerns as neighbor relations is important to the
school. The school is also planning to invite neighbors to campus in early September to discuss
the project and share findings from the technical studies performed. Email addresses collected
below will be used for invitations to this neighborhood meeting.

Conclusion:

We urge the City to recognize the importance of balancing neighborhood concerns with the
critical need for accessible, guality childcare as outlined in its own General Plan. The proposed
preschool represents a thoughtful, community- -focused solution to a documented problem, with
mitigation strategies in place to minimize local impacts.

We respectfully ask for your support of this project to help bridge the childcare gap in San Mateo
and provide families with the resources they need to thrive.

Signed,

I = = : | ~ 7 7
| Signature | Name | Address |

Py gal pk— Thedunr Gomi aU
pany CPt Bavney C. Desvoches

soos pike Croprune l}

-_ He E lang

a Picola Beale ;

EY



--- page 218 ---
Ca
tc lak Salford Su

GNA Rum A—

ee

Cherie So aon
chan 5 Michel

‘

Mk CN |
ied n\ LIMAY arcs LAMA
| ALLEL faa, | Mort



--- page 219 ---
es
ste CSc eet Beat

@\GAeR hy
“ew bor

OFIE nD

Td
Specie!
BVES

A LLz? §

Dil i

Aperg pi

rau bala__|
LLMAALY LZ, . BAN

eu. Lande
Blake fol

KAN

Suz1€ 5 ates
banners TSN\c,



--- page 220 ---
Jeg Scohom sla carey School, Mewly Mortis bas frgadoha! fey ama) addins

2 }oe plat SiR 0S SOSPSSs ere sopcerts #2 pe chor lal oye jam peertast to ns

Pye scnoclis alan CiaNory bs invite Gelebboary te caaiwue in eary Seotnoer 19 SESE
aC] BPG Shane HMGINGS Irom the welticgl Stmliee parforned. Eriall acaresss Uilectee ;

cnt iawetatians bo thes cde bh ae tyoce! esp

the Oily ic mecogrize the imporlsrice of halercny malate tiyocr eure

. oe ‘ et i, hie ure | ware bal hein
2 fo accessible, quality chikdoars ae ouhiced se fs owt oe coral t

: i , ae ' ) 4 OLS

ange) ircue Vga 140.07
. so - : ; a en wala chp childcare ca | pa oo mbes
fie Pistse ag Leki yowek jor wn sugeeet oF tris memect in be ry mre sok ideas? ibe wel

Sat
ti ee Bel eatedcn .

spd erov de fernilies with the cescurces wey voce ta bodve,

— —-

as

1
Signature , Mame ‘Address

<< if

| Jazmyne Baguiran

| Fabrelle Tompkins
(gavin Baquican

; +i hey Va Pa. ee
- aa Rak



--- page 221 ---
The Head of School at The Carey School, Neely Norris, has provided her email address

and phone number ( | neighbors and is available to
discuss the plan as well as address any concerns as neighbor relations is important to the
school. The school is also planning to invite neighbors to campus in early September to discuss
the project and share findings from the technical studies performed. Email addresses collected

below will be used for invitations to this neighborhood meeting.

Conclusion:

We urge the City to recognize the importance of balancing neighborhood concerns with the
critical need for accessible, quality childcare as outlined in its own General Plan. The proposed
preschool represents a thoughtful, community-focused solution to a documented problem, with

mitigation strategies in place to minimize local impacts.

We respectfully ask for your support of this project to help bridge the childcare gap in San Mateo

and provide families with the resources they need to thrive.

Signed,

Signature

| Address
|



--- page 222 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Simin Zakavand
Sent:
Monday, November 17, 2025 2:51 PM
To:
Subject:
RE: Carey School
Hi Patrick, 
 
Thank you for sending your questions, and apologies for the delayed response; I was out of the office sick 
for a few days last week. Please see my responses below.  
 
I also wanted to let you know that this project is getting scheduled for the December 9 Planning 
Commission meeting. Once the date is confirmed, I will update the website, and you will receive a 
notice.  
 
Sincerely,  
Simin 
 
From: Patrick Dolan <
 
Sent: Saturday, November 8, 2025 2:25 PM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Carey School 
 
HI Simin, 
 
Before I put together a formal response to the new information I want to make sure I understand the 
assumptions being made here and also understand that i am capturing all the new information: 
 
1) The new information involves only the traffic study. Please note the new submission also include a 
parking plan. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/99509/The-Carey-Schools-
Parking-and-Traffic-Plan 
 
2) There is no other new  information I may have missed (if there is I would greatly appreciate being 
pointed in the right direction)  
 
3) The current updated report concludes : 
    "The proposed project will generate a net new 133 daily trips, 28 net new trips in the AM peak hour, 19 
net new trips in the School PM peak hour, and 19 net           new trips in the PM peak hour."  pg 15 from 
Kimley Horn.   
     Seems to be a confusing statement since it repeats 19 net new trips in the PM peak hour. (I am 
assuming this is a typo) Yes, those were typos—both should be “27.” These have been corrected in the 
latest version of the report. 
 
4) In the added information it assumes 15 additional vehicles during peak periods on page 12.  The 15 
represents the max number of vehicles (within an hour) expected to use the drop-off or pick-up lane. For

--- page 223 ---
2
the morning, it is the number of vehicles arriving and for the afternoon it is the number of vehicles 
leaving. This is taken directly from the trip generation table. 
 
4) The assumptions of a 60% rideshare assumption remains in place even though there is no mechanism 
to enforce or monitor this. The average rideshare for the past 6 years is 60% but the analysis uses a more 
conservative approach which is based on the lowest rideshare data (50%).  
 
I am a pretty simple man so any help you can give me would be greatly appreciated.   
 
[As a side note I am not sure how the planning department feels about this analysis but if the change to 
the traffic (in the real world) would be 15 vehicles during peak periods  for a school housing 75 students  I 
probably would not be even writing to you.   I may be off here but this analysis does not seem to pass the 
"common sense" test.] 
 
Thank you for all your help to date in this matter and I hope I am not being too much of a burden to you . 
 
Respectfully 
 
Patrick Dolan 
 
 
  
 
 
On Fri, Nov 7, 2025 at 3:10 PM Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Patrick, 
  
The website is updated with the new materials. Feel free to reach out if you have any questions. 
  
Sincerely,  
Simin 
  
From: Patrick Dolan 
 
Sent: Tuesday, October 21, 2025 9:08 AM 
To: Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey School 
  
HI Simin,

--- page 224 ---
3
  
Hope you are doing well.  I am writing to you today to just follow up on the status of the Carey 
School  Pre-School project.  I don't see any activity on the website so I am wondering where everything 
stands at the moment.  Any updated information you could provide (when you have a chance) would be 
much appreciated.  Thank you.  
  
All my best, 
  
Patrick Dolan 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 225 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Patrick Dolan <
Sent:
Thursday, November 20, 2025 9:36 AM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Carey School Expansion -2033 La Salle Drive public comment
Dear Members of the Planning Commission, 
I am writing to respectfully request that the Commission reconsider the assumptions underlying 
approval of The Carey School’s proposed expansion in San Mateo, particularly the conclusion that the 
project “serves the local community” and that the 50% rideshare requirement provides adequate 
mitigation for increased traffic impacts. 
Under the San Mateo Municipal Code, the Planning Commission must base its findings on substantial 
evidence in the record when approving a project. For example, San Mateo Municipal Code §27.08.050(A) 
requires that conditional and special approvals demonstrate, with factual support, that the project is 
“compatible with the surrounding area,” “will not adversely affect the public welfare,” and is “supported 
by evidence in the administrative record.” Findings that are based on assumptions rather than evidence 
do not satisfy these legal requirements. 
Based on the school’s own published materials, Carey draws families from a wide area across the 
Peninsula and even into San Francisco. This means the assumption that the expanded enrollment 
primarily benefits families within the immediate neighborhood is not supported by evidence. An increase 
in student population, when the majority of new families may not live within walking or biking distance of 
the school, does not necessarily equate to serving the surrounding community or “minimizing 
detrimental impacts” as required under SMMC §27.08.050(D). 
Furthermore, the transportation analysis and mitigation plan rely heavily on the assumption that a 50% 
rideshare (carpool) participation rate is realistic and attainable. Under CEQA, mitigation measures must 
be feasible, enforceable, and supported by substantial evidence in the administrative record. CEQA 
Guidelines §§15091 and 15126.4 require that mitigation not be speculative or theoretical. Before this 
assumption can be relied upon to justify approval, the City and applicant should be required to provide: 
• Aggregated, anonymized ZIP code data showing where currently enrolled students reside; 
• Evidence that the majority of new students are likely to live within reasonable distance of the campus 
and therefore realistically able to carpool or use alternative modes of transportation; and 
• A clear mechanism for monitoring, reporting, and enforcement, including consequences for non-
compliance, as required under CEQA Guidelines §15126.4(a)(2). 
Without this information, the rideshare mitigation measure may be speculative and unenforceable. A 
mitigation program that cannot be realistically achieved or enforced does not satisfy CEQA, nor does it 
allow the Planning Commission to make required findings under SMMC §27.08.050. 
An enrollment increase is a substantial intensification of use, and impacts such as increased vehicle 
trips, traffic circulation, queuing, on-street congestion, and neighborhood quality of life must be

--- page 226 ---
2
evaluated using empirical data rather than assumptions. CEQA and the City’s zoning code require that 
such determinations be supported by verifiable evidence. 
I respectfully ask the Planning Commission to require that the applicant provide data demonstrating that 
its transportation and enrollment assumptions are realistic and supported before final approval is 
granted. Doing so ensures that findings of “local benefit” and “adequate mitigation” are legally 
defensible, consistent with CEQA, and consistent with the evidentiary standards of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Patrick Dolan

--- page 227 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Myra Cruz <
Sent:
Thursday, November 20, 2025 2:07 PM
To:
Simin Zakavand; City Council (San Mateo); Planning Commission
Cc:
Kitty Lopez; erica; Michelle Blakely; Neely Norris; 
Subject:
First 5 San Mateo County Supports Early Childhood Education Center Project
Attachments:
First 5SMC Support_EC Education Center Project.pdf
Dear City Council and Planning Commission of City of San Mateo, 
 
Attached is the letter from First 5 San Mateo County supporting the Early Childhood Education Center Project. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Myra 
 
 
Elmira “Myra” Cruz, MBA  (she, her, hers)* 
first5sanmateo.org 
 
I am working remotely. The best way to reach me is by email. 
 
Follow Us 
  
  
 
 
noencrypt  
*Here is why I include my pronouns: It’s important to get pronouns correct to support belonging and respect in the workplace for 
everyone, inclusive of our LGBTQ+ communities. Pronouns are words used to refer to people and are often gendered (for example, 
she/her, he/him, or they/them). We cannot assume we can tell the correct pronoun for a person. As an ally, an easy way to 
normalize the use of self-identified pronouns is to include them in your email signature. If cisgender individuals step up to 
normalize the inclusion of pronouns, it will be more affirming for transgender and gender diverse people to share pronouns. Will 
you join me, in solidarity, to include your pronouns in your email signature? For more details on pronouns and how you can be in 
solidarity with gender diverse and transgender individuals visit: https://www.mypronouns.org/

--- page 228 ---
November 17, 2025 
 
San Mateo City Council 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
c/o City of San Mateo Planning Division 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center 
 
Dear Honorable Mayor and City Councilmembers / Planning Commission Chair and Commissioners -  
On behalf of First 5 San Mateo County, I am pleased to express our strong support for The Carey 
School’s proposed Early Childhood Center in the City of San Mateo. 
 
San Mateo County continues to face a significant shortage of licensed early care and education (ECE) 
spaces, particularly for infants, toddlers, and preschool-aged children. This shortage affects families’ 
ability to work, children’s ability to access high-quality early learning environments, and the stability of our 
local economy. First 5 San Mateo County has long prioritized increasing high-quality ECE capacity, 
improving access and affordability, and supporting the workforce that makes this essential care possible. 
The Carey School’s proposal advances several of these key priorities: 
 
• 
Creates 75 new high-quality spaces for children ages 2–5 at a time when additional capacity is 
critically needed. 
• 
Offers full-day programming (7:45 AM–6:00 PM) that meets the needs of working families 
across the county. 
• 
Commits at least 10% of seats to be fully subsidized, expanding equitable access for families 
who would otherwise face barriers to high-quality care. 
• 
Invests in a modern, purpose-built facility that supports early learning, family engagement, and 
smooth transitions into kindergarten. 
 
These elements reflect the kind of thoughtful, community-responsive expansion that strengthens San 
Mateo County’s early childhood system and aligns with the shared goals outlined in the County’s Early 
Learning and Care Infrastructure efforts. 
 
We appreciate The Carey School’s commitment to expanding access to early care and education and its 
willingness to partner with the community to address one of San Mateo County’s most pressing needs. 
We respectfully encourage the City to approve this proposal. 
 
Thank you for your leadership and for your ongoing support of young children and families in San Mateo. 
 
 
Warm regards, 
 
 
 
 
Kitty Lopez 
Executive Director 
 
cc: Payroll Clerk

--- page 229 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
georgette <
>
Sent:
Monday, November 24, 2025 2:02 PM
To:
Georgette Guerra; Holeva Finau
Cc:
Sung H. Kwon; Simin Zakavand
Subject:
Re: 2033 La Salle Drive (Carey School)– New Educational Facility  PA2025 - 012
Thank you for your further explanation. I hadn’t seen your email as yet when I just now responded to 
Mr./Ms. Kwon. 
 
 
I will be attending in person and wasn’t sure if the procedure was the same as it was some years 
back. I’ll go into the link, as you suggested, but I did have some trouble with your website last night. If 
I’m not successful, then I’ll re-contact you, or I can stop by City Hall to pick up the Agenda.  Is entry to 
City Hall still available, since I understand you will be under construction? 
 
 
Thanks, 
 
 
g guerra 
 
 
 
 
 
On Monday, November 24, 2025 at 08:48:44 AM PST, Holeva Finau <hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:  
 
 
Good morning Georgette, 
  
As Sung mentioned, the agenda is not yet ready but will be available in the Public Meeting Portal once 
published next week. To receive updates on the Planning Commission Meetings and the eNewsletter, please 
follow the link to the City website where you can sign up for email notifications. If you have any questions 
regarding 2033 La Salle Drive (Carey School)– New Educational Facility PA2025 – 012, please feel free to 
contact Associate Planner, Simin Zakavand at szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org.  
  
A request to speak form is only to be submitted if attending the meeting in person, it does not have to be 
submitted before the start of the meeting but is recommended. The form provides a field to identify which item 
it is you would like to provide public comment.  If you are attending via zoom, you may raise your hand using 
Zoom feature and be given permission to speak once instructed by the clerk for the public comment section of 
the item you wish to speak.

--- page 230 ---
2
Best, 
Holeva 
Holeva S Finau 
Administrative Assistant | Community Development Dept. 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7236 | hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org 
  
  
From: Sung H. Kwon <skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Monday, November 24, 2025 7:46 AM 
To: Georgette Guerra <
> 
Cc: 
; Holeva Finau <hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 2033 La Salle Drive (Carey School)– New Educational Facility PA2025 - 012 
  
Hi Georgette,  
  
The Dec 9 PC agenda is not ready yet.  Holeva can send it over once it is ready.  
  
Sincerely,  
  
Sung H. Kwon MCRP MBA AICP 
Deputy Director | Community Development 
  
From: Georgette Guerra 
>  
Sent: Sunday, November 23, 2025 9:29 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
Subject: 2033 La Salle Drive (Carey School)– New Educational Facility PA2025 - 012 
  
Gentlemen,

--- page 231 ---
3
I entered your website in an attempt to be placed on your email list in order to receive the Agenda for the 
scheduled December 9, 2025 Planing Commission meeting for the subject project.  I wasn’t 
successful.  Therefore, I’m asking if you would please email me the Agenda for that evening as soon as it 
becomes available.  I would like to determine in advance at what approximate point of the evening the Item will 
appear. 
  
Also, does a request to speak have to be submitted in advance of the start of the meeting, or can a speaking 
request form be submitted at the beginning of the public comment session for that particular Item? 
  
I appreciate your help.  Thank you, 
  
(Please respond to my 
 address) 
  
georgette guerra  
San Mateo 
  
Sent from my iPad 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this 
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original 
sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your 
computer. Thank you.

--- page 232 ---
1
Simin Zakavand
From:
Sung H. Kwon
Sent:
Monday, December 1, 2025 8:31 AM
To:
Simin Zakavand
Cc:
Holeva Finau
Subject:
FW: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center
Fyi 
 
Sincerely,  
 
Sung H. Kwon MCRP MBA AICP 
Deputy Director | Community Development 
 
From: Dezhi Kang 
Sent: Thursday, November 27, 2025 9:16 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center 
 
Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers and Planning Commissioners, 
I am writing to you today as a current San Mateo resident and a parent of a 4 year old to express my 
strong support for The Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center. 
My wife and I recently went through the daunting process of searching for childcare in San Mateo. As a 
family with two full-time working parents, we experienced firsthand just how difficult it is to find high-
quality care that actually aligns with a full-time work schedule. We found that waitlists are incredibly long 
and that many wonderful programs simply do not offer the extended hours that working families like ours 
desperately need. 
This is why the Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center project is so vital for our community. 
The proposed center would add 75 much-needed spaces for children ages 2–5 and, crucially, offer full-
day programming from 7:45 AM to 6:00 PM. This schedule is a game-changer for parents who need to 
work without the constant stress of midday pickups or finding gap coverage. 
By approving this project, you would be directly supporting families who want to stay and work in San 
Mateo but are struggling to find the infrastructure to support them. Expanding high-quality, full-day 
options is one of the most effective ways to support our local workforce and ensuring our community 
remains a viable place for young families to put down roots. 
I strongly urge you to support this project to help address this critical gap in our city’s child care 
resources. 
Thank you for your time and service.

--- page 233 ---
2
Sincerely, 
Dezhi Kang, a San Mateo resident

--- page 234 ---
~ = VER 7

November 13, 2025

San Mateo City Council —

San Mateo Planning Commission a j
330 W. 20" Avenue —~

San Mateo, CA 94404
Re: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center

Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers and Planning Commissioners,

We are writing as San Mateo parents of two young children who finally found high-quality,
reliable early childhood care with The Carey School. We are two working parents with two
children, currently at different schools - it’s been such a nightmare to find quality care we can
trust and on top of that logistics is not an easy feat.

This is why we strongly support The Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center.

We are counting on The Carey School and its Early Childhood Center for reliable and consistent
care for both our children.

This project would add 75 much-needed child-care spaces for children ages 2-5, with full-day
programming from 7:45 AM to 6:00 PM, exactly the kind of schedule that allows parents to work
without constantly worrying about pickup and coverage with a consolidated drop off and pick up
with the elementary school. As a child that heavily benefited from financial aid myself, I’m also
grateful that the project includes some fully subsidized spots to ensure that more families can
access high-quality early education.

We believe early learning in a neighborhood environment is critical to child development and
community building. We also live next to a school and experience first-hand the traffic
congestion during drop off and pick ups - we understand the stress this might put on some
neighbors. However, we know this is a small price to pay for what the neighborhood school
provides for our children and youth. If we cannot have reliable, great schools right in our
neighborhoods, where would we go? Wouldn’t more driving mean more congestion for our city?

| hope you will support this project and help address one of the most pressing needs facing
families in our city.

Thank you very much for your service and consideration.

%

With gratitude, iN f-

Debbie Limongan & Jeffrey SUNG ¢ ( ~ cj e —~ oe A
San Mateo Parent Z_ al Ga ‘ ro ao ee


--- page 235 ---
November 20, 2025

San Mateo City Council

San Mateo Planning Commission
330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94404

Re: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center

Dear San Mateo City Council Members and Planning Commissioners,

We are writing to strongly support The Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center.
We are both working parents who live in San Mateo and have struggled in the past to find high
quality childcare that is also focused on learning and social and emotional development. The
Carey School is a leader in child education in the area and is proposing a project that would
make a big impact in our community.

This project would add 75 child-care spaces for children ages 2-5, with full-day programming
from 7:45 AM to 6:00 PM. This allows parents more flexibility with work schedules and gives the
peace of mind that their children have safe and reliable childcare. The project also includes
some fully subsidized spots to ensure that more families can access high-quality early
education, regardless of income, which is especially important to our family during this unstable
political climate.

It is important to our family that we support working parents, strengthen early learning, and keep
young families in San Mateo. We hope you will support this project create impact for San Mateo.

Thank you for your consideration and service,

Michael and Jillian Boice
San Mateo Parents


--- page 236 ---
December 1, 2025 
San Mateo City Council 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94404 
Re: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center 
Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers and Planning Commissioners, 
I’m wriIng as a San Mateo parent of young children who has felt ﬁrsthand how challenging it is to ﬁnd 
high-quality, reliable early childhood care in our city. My husband and I are parents of three preschool- 
and elementary-aged children, and aOer living in San Mateo for over ten years, we’ve experienced the 
childcare shortage from every angle. Nearly every family we know has struggled with long waitlists, 
limited availability, or programs that simply don’t align with working schedules. 
I’m also an intensive care nurse at San Mateo Medical Center, and because my hours can be unique and 
unpredictable, I’m especially grateful for schools that oﬀer extended, dependable coverage. The long 
opening hours proposed for The Carey School’s Early Childhood Center would be a lifeline for many 
working families like ours. 
This is why I am strongly suppor:ng The Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center. 
This project would add 75 much-needed child-care spaces for children ages 2–5, with full-day 
programming from 7:45 AM to 6:00 PM, exactly the kind of schedule that allows parents to work without 
constantly worrying about pickup and coverage. I’m also grateful that the project includes some fully 
subsidized spots to ensure that more families can access high-quality early educaIon, regardless of 
income. 
As a community, we talk oOen about wanIng to support families, strengthen early learning, and keep 
young families in San Mateo. Approving this center is one concrete, meaningful way to do that. 
I hope you will support this project and help address one of the most pressing needs facing families in 
our city. 
Thank you very much for your service and consideraIon. 
Warmly, 
Erin & AusIn Haugen 
San Mateo Parents

--- page 237 ---
1
From:
Kim Baker 
Sent:
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 3:59 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Subject:
Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center - 12/9 Planning Commission 
Meeting
Re: Support for The Carey School Early Childhood Center 
 
Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers and Planning Commissioners, 
 
Our family have been San Mateo residents for over 13 years. We are writing as parents of children who have 
felt firsthand how challenging it is to find high-quality, reliable early childhood care in our city. Nearly every 
family we know has struggled with long waitlists, limited availability, or programs that don’t align with working 
schedules.  
 
This is why I am strongly supporting The Carey School’s proposed Early Childhood Center. 
 
This project would add 75 much-needed child-care spaces for children ages 2–5, with full-day programming 
from 7:45 AM to 6:00 PM, exactly the kind of schedule that allows parents to work without constantly worrying 
about pickup and coverage. I am also grateful that the project includes some fully subsidized spots to ensure 
that more families can access high-quality early education regardless of income. 
 
As a community, we talk often about wanting to support families, strengthen early learning, and keep young 
families in San Mateo. Approving this center is one concrete, meaningful way to do that. We hope you will 
support this project and help address one of the most pressing needs facing families in our city. 
 
Thank you very much for your service and consideration. 
 
Warmly, 
Kim Baker 
San Mateo Resident & Parent

--- page 238 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Chantal Eaton
Sent:
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 11:18 AM
To:
Holeva Finau; Siulolovao "Sue" Vuna
Cc:
Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Subject:
FW: FW: Carey Meeting
Hi Holeva,  
 
Kindly upload this email trend as public comment for the 12/9 Planning Commission Meeting. Let me 
know if you need any support.  
 
Best,  
Chantal  
 
From: Chantal Eaton  
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 11:14 AM 
To: 'Danielle Giovannetti' 
 
Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung H. Kwon 
<skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: FW: Carey Meeting 
 
Hi Danielle,  
 
Thank you for your quick response. We only provide live streaming through YouTube, which does not 
offer LiveChat or participation capabilities. For residents who wish to provide live public comment, 
participation must occur through Zoom. 
 
Here is the link to access our agendas and meeting information: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3971/Agendas-Minutes-Public-Meeting-Portal 
 
When you open the agenda, you will find the Zoom link and full instructions for providing public 
comment: 
 
During the meeting 
 
By computer: Click the Zoom link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All 
attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is open for comment, select the “Raise Hand” 
icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time. 
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID listed at the top of the agenda. When the 
item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to 
unmute, state your name, and provide your comments. 
By Zoom (app or browser): Click the Zoom link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the 
meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select 
the “Raise Hand” icon and you will be called on to speak. 
In person: At the meeting, complete a “Request to Speak” form.

--- page 239 ---
2
 
Thank you again for your comments. 
Please don’t hesitate to reach out if you have any questions. 
 
Best regards,  
 
Chantal Eaton 
Deputy City Clerk  
City Clerk’s Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7044 | ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: Danielle Giovannetti 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 10:50 AM 
To: Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung H. Kwon 
<skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: FW: Carey Meeting 
 
Thank you so much for your prompt response and attention to detail, Chantal! 
 
We joined through the link provided on the City of San Mateo Public meeting Portal. It appeared as a 
youtube live on our end.  
 
I appreciate you uploading our concern.  My goal is to keep my kids safe and I fear that this will cause 
even more issues.  Just last week there was a car totaled 2 houses down from us, just as I was getting 
home with my kids.  From my experience,  many drivers get frustrated with the traffic on the 20th and end 
up speeding off.  
 
Have a great day and thank you again. 
 
Danielle 
 
On Wed, Dec 10, 2025 at 10:35 AM Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Dear Danielle, 
Thank you for reaching out and letting us know about your experience. I’m sorry to hear you were unable to participate during the 
meeting. 
As soon as we received your email, we re-tested the Zoom environment, and I also want to share that the system had been tested 
multiple times prior to the meeting. I personally monitored the attendee panel throughout the session to ensure participants were 
able to unmute and use audio. During the meeting, I only saw one attendee logged in, and all participation features—raising hands 
and unmuting—appeared to be functioning correctly on our end.

--- page 240 ---
3
To troubleshoot further, I joined the meeting from three separate devices using both the direct link and the conference 
ID/password. In all cases, I was able to raise my hand and unmute without issue. 
That said, we absolutely want to understand what happened so we can ensure full access for all residents. If you’re willing, could 
you please share a bit more about how you accessed the meeting? 
A few helpful questions: 
 Did you join through the Zoom app or a web browser? 
 Did you use the meeting link, or manually enter the meeting ID and password? 
 Were you joining from a desktop, laptop, tablet, or mobile phone?  
 Any other information is appreciated. 
Your feedback will help us identify what might have happened and prevent this issue in the future. We truly care about ensuring all 
members of our community can participate and receive the information they need. 
Additionally, to ensure transparency and access for all interested parties, we will upload your public comment to the meeting 
packet. 
Thank you again for bringing this to our attention. Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or if there’s anything else 
we can assist with. 
Kind regards,  
  
Chantal Eaton 
Deputy City Clerk  
City Clerk’s Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7044 | ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org 
  
  
  
From: Danielle Giovannetti 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 9, 2025 9:29 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Neely Norris <nnorris@careyschool.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl 
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey Meeting

--- page 241 ---
4
  
Hi there, 
  
I am a resident of 
. My husband and I attended the meeting via Zoom, but we were 
unable to comment because the participation feature was disabled. 
  
We want to express our clear opposition to this project. As parents of two young children, we already 
struggle with heavy traffic and frequent speeding on our street. The schools in the area also create 
recurring issues with illegal parking and large crowds. Adding this project would only intensify these 
problems and increase the risks to our children and our neighbors. 
  
Prior to having my children, I was a teacher for seven years. I fully understand and support the 
importance of education. However, this particular location is not suitable for a project of this scale 
and should be carefully reconsidered. 
  
Danielle Giovannetti  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 242 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Chantal Eaton
Sent:
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 6:30 PM
To:
Sue Loeffler
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Zachary Dahl; Sung H. Kwon; Holeva Finau; Planning
Subject:
RE: Carey Meeting 
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Hi Sue,  
 
Thank you for your reply. If you have any questions on how to join the meetings remotely and provide 
public comment, please feel free to contact me.  
 
I am cc’ing the Planning team here for awareness on the additional comments provided below.  
 
Again, thank you for your participation and comments.  
 
Kind regards,  
Chantal 
 
From: Sue Loeffler 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 6:20 PM 
To: Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Carey Meeting  
 
Hello,  
 
Thank you for the follow up. We joined the meeting from the City site using our phones .  
 
Other items I wanted to mention…. 
 
- With the increasing parking problem in the city and the unenforceable Carey No Parking signs on ADP, I 
see a huge impediment to the Carey PU flow. 
 
- The parking agreement at the business park with Carey will be subject to change with any new 
management. 
I attended the Temple expansion ( removing parking spaces ). They assured me they had a ‘gentleman’s 
agreement’ regarding using the lot. I suggested they watch out for that being eliminated. It was. 
 
- ADP is affectionately known as Autobahn de las Pulgas after  the numerous accidents ( one fatal).  It is 
very dangerous, as is W 20th. 
 
Thank you,

--- page 243 ---
2
 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
On Dec 10, 2025, at 10:45 AM, Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
  
Dear Sue, 
Thank you for reaching out and letting us know about your experience. I’m sorry to hear you were 
unable to participate virtually during the Planning Commission meeting last night. As soon as we 
received your email, we re-tested the Zoom environment, and I also want to share that the system had 
been tested multiple times prior to the meeting. I personally monitored the attendee panel throughout 
the session to ensure participants were able to unmute and use audio. During the meeting, I only saw 
one attendee logged in, and all participation features—raising hands and unmuting—appeared to be 
functioning correctly on our end. 
To troubleshoot further, I joined the meeting from three separate devices using both the direct link and 
the conference ID/password. In all cases, I was able to raise my hand and unmute without issue. That 
said, we absolutely want to understand what happened so we can ensure full access for all residents.  
  
If you’re willing, could you please share a bit more about how you accessed the meeting? 
A few helpful questions: 
1. Did you join through the Zoom app or a web browser? 
2. Did you use the meeting link, or manually enter the meeting ID and password? 
3. Were you joining from a desktop, laptop, tablet, or mobile phone? 
4. Any other information is appreciated. 
  
Your feedback will help us identify what might have happened and prevent this issue in the future. We 
truly care about ensuring all members of our community can participate in public meetings and receive 
the information they need. Additionally, to ensure transparency and access for all interested parties, we 
will upload your public comment to the meeting packet. 
Thank you again for bringing this to our attention. Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions 
or if there’s anything else we can assist with. 
  
Kind regards,  
  
Chantal Eaton 
Deputy City Clerk  
City Clerk’s Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7044 | ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 244 ---
3
  
  
  
-----Original Message----- 
From: Sue Loeffler 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 9, 2025 8:13 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; Neely Norris <nnorris@careyschool.org>; City Mgr 
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Carey Meeting  
  
Hello, 
  
Unfortunately the zoom attendees were unable to participate . 
  
This meant the community speakers were predominantly Carey Parents and the current owner of the 
property.  We take exception at his comments that some neighbors don’t leave their homes or have 
cars. We also disagree on the ‘improvement’ in traffic impact. 
  
We remain opposed to the project.  
  
Sue Loeffler  
  
Sent from my iPhone 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any 
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. 
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are 
not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this 
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in 
error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and 
delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 245 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Chantal Eaton
Sent:
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 10:31 AM
To:
Holeva Finau; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Sung H. Kwon
Subject:
FW: 
Hi all,  
 
Please see the comment below and kindly upload to the meeting packet.  
@Holeva, let me know if you have any questions on how to upload.  
 
Thank you! 
Chantal 
 
From: Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 10:29 AM 
To: Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fw:  
 
Public comment about The Carey School 
 
From: Sophia Tseng 
 
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 7:30 AM 
To: Lisa Diaz Nash 
; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 
  
Dear Lisa, 
 
I hope this email finds you having had a wonderful Thanksgiving with your newly expanded family (and first as 
grandparents!)!  We were sorry to miss the annual tree trimming but I know that as always it was a fantastic 
time.   Mike, Max, James and I got back from New York where we visited with Mike’s cousin and her family, 
including his niece Sophie who is currently applying to college!  When I think about this it strikes me how 
quickly time flies, as she was born around the time Mike and I got married.   
 
I’m writing you today with words of strong support for the Carey School Early Childhood center, which is in 
planning stages and will be discussed during the city council meeting in January.  Whether through your work 
as Co-Captain of Sister District, as San Mateo Council Member and Mayor, or through your role as a mother of 
two successful daughters, I know that you recognize the importance of early education and the difference it 
can make in educational outcomes.  San Mateo has made tremendous strides in the availability of pre-school 
and TK programs during your tenure as City Council member and this project at Carey would be another high 
quality source of much-needed educational access.  The new center at Carey would not only create new

--- page 246 ---
2
childcare seats, it would also reduce traffic on Alameda de las Pulgas by bringing two Carey campuses 
together and eliminating the commute that many families make during the morning rush.    
 
In the past I’ve mentioned what an amazing difference Carey has made in James’ personal development and 
growth.  I am constantly grateful for the thoughtful way in which the Administration, Teachers, and Community 
work together to make Carey a small Utopia that shows children what is possible when they lead and learn 
with kindness, curiosity and joy.  Expanding Carey will allow more children to be educated by this fine 
institution, which is a truly positive thing for the world.   
 
I hope that you will support this initiative and would love to discuss further during a long-overdue walk!   
 
Thank you as always for your service, your optimism, and for everything that you do Lisa, and I hope to see 
you soon.  
 
Kind regards 
 
Sophia 
 
 
-- 
 
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. 
 
- Eleanor Roosevelt

--- page 247 ---
2033 La Salle Drive Zoning Reclassification
(Early Childhood Education Center-Carey School)
PA-2025-012
Planning Commission Public Hearing
December 9, 2025
Simin Zakavand, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
1

--- page 248 ---
Behaviora Heal fh, (@) ;

YP And Recover IR. Sean

Fusion Academy San Mateo

CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 249 ---
Background
3
Location
•
General Plan Land Use Designation: 
Residential Very Low
•
Zone: R1-B (One Family Dwellings) 
•
1 parcel / 0.6-acre (26,380 square feet)
•
Existing: 1,851 square foot single-
family residence and a 640 square-foot 
attached accessory dwelling unit

--- page 250 ---
Background
4
Project Description:
•
An Early Childhood Education Center 
(5,908 square-foot building )
•
Maximum of 75 students (2-5 years 
old)
•
Maximum of 16 staff
•
11 on-site parking spaces and 15 off-
site parking spaces
•
Operation: Monday through Friday 
7:45am to 6:00pm

--- page 251 ---
Background
5
Entitlements: 
Zoning Reclassification
•
R1-B to R1-B/Q8 (One Family Dwellings to One 
Family Dwellings /Qualified Overlay District 8) 
Zoning Code Amendment
•
Add text for the Q8 overlay
Site Plan and Architectural Review
•
5,908 square-foot building and associated 
improvements
•
Off-site loading zone
Special Use Permit 
•
Private educational facility in R1-B
•
Substantial removal of single-family residence
•
Off-site parking
Site Development Planning Application 
•
Removal of major vegetation

--- page 252 ---
Zoning Reclassification 
6
•
Existing Zoning: R1-B (One Family 
Dwellings)
•
Proposed Zoning: R1-B/Q8 (One Family 
Dwellings, Qualified Overlay District 8)

--- page 253 ---
Zoning Code Amendment
7
R1-B
R1-B/Q8
Permitted Uses
Educational Facilities with a 
Special Use permit 
Special Use permit is required for all uses
Off-site Parking 
Within 200 ft of project site
Within 1,000 ft of project site
Parking Location 
Is not allowed within the front 
and side setback
*Uncovered parking may be allowed 
within the front and side setback
Projection of awning 
into setbacks
Allows awning up to eight (8) feet 
in height within the rear yard 
setback
*Allows awning up to nine (9) feet in 
height within the rear yard setback

--- page 254 ---
Site Plan and 
Architectural Review
8
•
5,908 square-foot building 
•
1 parcel / 0.6-acre (26,380 square 
feet)
•
One-way Circular driveway
•
11 on-site parking spaces and 15 
off-site parking spaces
•
One loading berth along the parcel 
frontage
•
Private Creek along the south side 
Loading Zone

--- page 255 ---
The Carey
School

ie

CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 256 ---
Special Use Permit
10
• Educational Facility – Special Use in R1-B Zoning District
• Demolition of a Single-Family Dwelling 
• Off-site Parking Facility –  Within than 1,000 ft of the Project site
Findings - SMMC Section 27.74.020
• Similar to other private educational facilities within single-family districts
• Does not adversely affect general health, safety, and welfare
• No significant impact on local street system

--- page 257 ---
Traffic Analysis
11
Enrollment data from the past 6 years:
•
Students at the elementary school have siblings who attend the 
current pre-school program
•
Data shows an average of 60% overlapping trips
•
A 50% carpool reduction was applied to the trip generation analysis

--- page 258 ---
Traffic Analysis
12
Daily Rate
AM Peak
(7:45 – 8:45 AM)
School PM Peak
(2:30 – 3:30 PM)
PM Peak
(5:00 – 6:00 PM)
Total Existing Trips (Existing Residential)
19
1
2
2
Proposed Trips (Proposed Educational 
Facility)
307
59
59
59
Carpool Trip
Reduction (50% carpool)
-155
-30
-30
-30
Total Proposed Trips 
152
29
29
29
Total Net New Trips (Proposed – Existing)
133
28
27
27
Trip Generation

--- page 259 ---
Traffic Analysis 
•
Vehicle Mile Traveled (VMT): The Project is screened out of VMT analysis based on 
the Local-Serving Retail and Public Services criteria (equal or less than 50,000 square 
feet) pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 
15064.3
•
Level of Service (LOS): W. 20th Avenue and La Salle Drive Intersection
➢The intersection will perform at an acceptable LOS C or better for all peak periods
➢The Project will increase delay by 1.6 second per vehicle or less.
➢50% carpool reduction rate was applied 
•
Queuing Analysis 
➢Queuing analysis found that the Project will not increase any existing queues by more 
than one vehicles or 25 feet.
13

--- page 260 ---
Traffic Analysis 
•
Pick-Up and Drop-Off Operations
•
Annual Carey School Parking and Traffic 
Plan
•
Staggered start and end times
•
Grade-dependent locations (Alameda de 
las Pulgas, La Salle cu-de-sac, Project 
parking lot)
•
Minimum of five traffic monitors
•
Escorting students to the building 
14
Pick up and Drop 
off Location

--- page 261 ---
Parking Analysis 
15
Required Parking Spaces: 23 
•
75 Students
•
16 Staff
Provided Parking Spaces: 26
•
11 on-site Parking Spaces (for drop-
off and pick-up)
•
15 off-site Parking Spaces (for staff 
use)
Off-site Parking facility is located within 
1,000 feet of the Project site
Off-site Parking
Project Site

--- page 262 ---
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Zoning reclassification and the zoning map amendment are exempt 
from further environmental review pursuant to the “Common Sense” 
exemption (14 CCR Section 15061(b)(3)).
• The development of the Early Childcare Education Center is exempt from 
further environmental review pursuant to Section 15303, Class 3 (New 
Construction or Conversion of Small Structures)
16

--- page 263 ---
Public Comments
• Neighborhood Meeting: January 9, 2025 - 31 neighbors attended
• Comments/concerns related to parking, traffic and noise 
• Public noticing: 20 days in advance of the hearing (November 19, 2025): 
• Newspaper Notice 
• Notice neighbors within 1,000 ft. of project site
• All interested parties
• City’s “Notify Me” email list
17

--- page 264 ---
Recommendation
Recommend that the City Council: 
1)
Adopt an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification from R1-
B to R1-B/Q8, and a Zoning Code Amendment to provide 
development standards for an educational facility and find it 
exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 15061(b)(3) (Common 
Sense Exemption); and 
2)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Planning Application (SPAR, SUP 
and SDPA) for the establishment and construction of an Early 
Childhood Education Center subject to the findings for approval 
and conditions of approval, and find it exempt from CEQA 
pursuant to Section 15303 (New Small Structures Exemption).
18

--- page 265 ---
Thank You
Simin Zakavand, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

--- page 266 ---
Backup Slides



--- page 267 ---
Housing Crisis Act
• Housing Development Project 
• The proposed Project is not a housing Development 
• Non-residential Development Project: Replacement of the “Protected Units” is required 
• “Protected units” means any of the following:
• Residential dwelling units that are or were subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that 
restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of lower or very low income within the 
past five years.
• Residential dwelling units that are or were subject to any form of rent or price control through a 
public entity’s valid exercise of its police power within the past five years.
• Residential dwelling units that are or were rented by lower or very low income households within 
the past five years.
• Residential dwelling units that were withdrawn from rent or lease in accordance with Chapter 
12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 within the past 10 years.
21

--- page 268 ---
Conditions of Approval
22
COA 57: CIRCULATION MEASURES – The Ealy Childhood Center, in coordination with the Carey School, shall comply with 
the following circulation measures for daily student pick-up and drop-off:
a) Monitors - During school drop-off and pick-up hours, a minimum of five school staff persons shall be designated for 
the exclusive purposes of facilitating circulation at a minimum of the following three locations:
•
One staff at 20th Avenue and La Salle Intersection,
•
Two staff at cul-de-sac,
•
One staff at 2033 La Salle Drive Parking, and
•
One staff at Alameda 
b) Parking is not allowed at La Salle cul-de-sac pick-up/drop-off areas during peak hours.  
c) Loading Zones on Alameda - The designated “loading only” areas on Alameda de las Pulgas shall be honored and 
enforced.
d) Loading and unloading students shall be per the approved Parking and Traffic Plan.
e) Driveway signage on La Salle Drive – Temporary, professional grade and quality, removable (A-frame type) signage for 
the sole purpose of restricting usage of residential driveways on La Salle Drive by Ealy Childhood Education Center or 
Carey School  shall be placed twice a day, at each driveway apron along La Salle Drive, just prior to and throughout 
drop-off and pick-up hours. (PLANNING)

--- page 269 ---
Conditions of Approval
23
COA 61: PARKING AND TRAFFIC PLAN BY EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION 
CENTER – Annually the school shall ensure that each family receives an 
updated copy of the school’s Parking and Traffic Plan including evening 
events Parking Protocol. (PLANNING)
COA 66: WRITTEN ANNUAL COMPLIANCE LETTER - The school, in 
coordination with the Carey School, shall submit a written letter to the 
Zoning Administrator of the City's Planning Division on an annual basis at 
the start of each school year that includes a written assessment of 
compliance with the conditions of approval. (PLANNING)

--- page 270 ---
Conditions of Approval
24
COA 56: TRAFFIC ANALYSIS - The school must comply with all recommendations and findings of 
the Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum prepared by the Kimley Horn dated 
November 11, 2025.
The preschool program shall maintain a minimum 50% carpool participation rate (on a 3-year 
average) with the elementary school located at 1 Carey Lane for the duration of its operation. 
Enrollment and carpool data shall be submitted to the City at the start of each school year to 
demonstrate compliance with this requirement. If the 50% carpool participation rate cannot be 
maintained, the operator shall implement additional measures, such as reducing student 
enrollment, to ensure that the project does not result in traffic impacts. (PLANNING)
COA 72: TRAFFIC MONITORING STUDY - The Traffic and Parking Evaluation Memorandum 
provided by Kimley Horn on November 11, 2025, states that The Early Childhood Education 
Center will reduce their Average Daily Trips by 50% through carpooling. The preschool program 
shall maintain a minimum 50% carpool participation rate (on a 3-year average) with the 
elementary school located at 1 Carey Lane for the duration of its operation. The applicant shall 
provide an annual update with enrollment data to verify that the carpool reduction rate still 
applies. (PUBLIC WORKS

--- page 271 ---
Conditions of Approval
25
COA 64: Staff Parking Requirement - Through a parking agreement or other 
means, the school must provide 15 off-site parking spaces for school faculty/staff 
on weekdays, in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.64.060. 
Should the number of offsite parking spaces fall below 15, then the number of 
full-time equivalent school employees must be reduced proportionately to bring 
the use into conformance with the City's applicable parking ratio set forth in San 
Mateo Municipal Code chapter 27.64. (PLANNING)

--- page 272 ---
Conditions of Approval
26
COA 62: PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 
27.02.210-Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of 
the conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the property owner to the 
penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code as well as any other available legal remedies. (PLANNING)
COA 63: PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 
27.02.210-Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of 
the conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the property owner to the 
penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code as well as any other available legal remedies. (PLANNING)

--- page 273 ---
The Carey School
Since 1928
Proposed Early Childhood Center

--- page 274 ---
The Carey School Background
Founded in 1928
●
Founded in 1928 by James and Mary 
Carey
●
On the Alameda site since 1955
●
Mission driven, non-proﬁt, independent 
school serving families on the peninsula
●
 256 students on our main campus and 40 
at our preschool at 3900 Alameda, many 
siblings between the two campuses
●
99% of our families live in San Mateo 
County
●
13% of students beneﬁt from ﬁnancial aid
The Carey School

--- page 275 ---
Our Mission
The statement that guides us
The Carey School inspires curious, conﬁdent, and joyful 
learners and celebrates childhood in a diverse, inclusive 
community that nurtures kindness, respect, and personal 
responsibility.
The Carey School

--- page 276 ---
How We Live Our Mission
Focus on Community
●
Building Community
○
Yearly neighborhood breakfasts
○
Communication with neighbors
●
Partnering With Our Community
○
Empowerment Through Action
○
Caring at Carey
●
Supporting Our Community
○
Committed to socio-economic diversity 
through community outreach and ﬁnancial aid
○
Community focus really helped us identify idea 
for our new preschool
The Carey School

--- page 277 ---
Supporting Our Community With Childcare
Adapting to the needs
●
San Mateo County meets only 73% of the need for 
licensed child care
●
Many families, especially those with children over 2, 
are looking for high quality, school-based programming 
with daycare hours
●
Private childcare programs do not offer any ﬁnancial 
assistance, where we can offer needs based assistance 
for over 10% of the enrolled students
●
Partnering with 4Cs and Build Up San Mateo to support 
additional childcare opportunities
The Carey School

--- page 278 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Center
Identiﬁed need for high quality preschool with extended hours
●
2 years old through PK with an enrollment of 
75
●
High-quality play based curriculum
●
Full day program- supporting our two parent 
working households with hours available 
from 7:45 am to 6:00 pm
●
Hoping to complete project and open to 
students in fall of 2027
●
Fully donor funded - allowing city and county 
to use funds to help increase childcare spots 
elsewhere
The Carey School

--- page 279 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Center
Neighborhood Engagement
●
Began by walking the neighborhood and connecting with families door to 
door
●
Initial neighborhood meeting in February 2025 and an additional 
neighborhood meeting to address parking and trafﬁc November 2025
●
Individual neighbor meetings
●
Numerous email communications
●
Neighbor conversations on 20th and La Salle
Overall: Over 50 touchpoints with our neighbors
The Carey School

--- page 280 ---
Response to Community Concern
We work to partner with our neighbors
Parking Concerns
○
 Maintain an agreement at 2000 
Alameda to offset parking in our 
employee lot (27 spots)
■
 30 originally, additional 15 
parking spots for employee use
■
Special event parking
■
 Regular reminders to families to 
not park in the neighborhood for 
school visits
○
Daily monitoring of La Salle
The Carey School
Trafﬁc Concerns
○
Completed a trafﬁc study with 
Kimley-Horn
○
Developed pick-up/drop-off plan 
based on feedback from community 
that works in conjunction with the 
main campus
■
Staffed carline and 
administrative monitoring of 
street
■
Sibling drop-off and pick-up
■
Staggered use of Alameda, La 
Salle Circle and the Early 
Childhood Center lot
■
Over 50% stay for extended care

--- page 281 ---
The Carey School
Drop-Off and Pick-Up Circulation Plan
Early Childhood Center:
La Salle Drive: 
Alameda de las Pulgas:

--- page 282 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Program

Site Area



--- page 283 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Program
Proposed Site Plan

--- page 284 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Program
West Elevation - Main Entry

--- page 285 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Program
North Elevation - View From Neighboring Property

--- page 286 ---
The Carey School Early Childhood Program
Thank you!

--- page 287 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10657
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 9, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance – Zoning Code Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend that the City Council introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19, 
“Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments from the California 
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) to align with current state law, and to address Housing 
Element programs. 
BACKGROUND:
Since 2016, the State Legislature has passed several state laws to streamline permitting and promote construction of 
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) across California. The City of San Mateo adopted its current local ADU Ordinance on 
March 21, 2022 to implement local regulations for ADUs in line with State law, and with City Council directing staff to 
provide annual updates on implementation. Since adoption in 2022, the City has seen significant ADU permitting and 
construction activity, with over 300 permits issued (164 of which have been finaled) over the past three and half years (an 
average of 87 permits issued per year).
As part of the City’s adopted Housing Element (2023-2031), the City prioritized increased ADU production (Policy H1.4) and 
supported it with six implementation actions, including an action focused on amending the City’s ADU Ordinance to align it 
with current State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by the California Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD). In October 2024, the City received a letter from HCD summarizing the agency’s review of 
the City’s ADU Ordinance (Attachment 3). HCD has had statutory authority to review local agencies’ ADU Ordinances since 
2016, and as of January 1, 2024, also has authority to enforce all State ADU laws. The HCD letter identified specific 
ordinance provisions requiring updates or clarification. An official City response letter was sent to HCD in November 2024 
(Attachment 4), with a stated goal to update the ADU Ordinance in 2025. 
In January 2025, HCD also published an updated ADU Handbook1  addressing frequently asked questions and summarizing 
recent changes to State ADU law. One notable change is Senate Bill (SB) 1211, effective January 1, 2025, which allows for 
up to eight detached ADUs to be constructed on a lot with an existing multifamily dwelling, provided that the number of 
ADUs does not exceed the number of existing units on the lot. 
On August 26, 2025, a Planning Commission study session was held to introduce ADU Ordinance updates and receive 
Commission feedback. During this study session, the Planning Commission provided staff with feedback on specific local 
changes, outside of those required for State law compliance, in order to address community needs.  Following the study 
session, staff conducted outreach and hosted a virtual workshop on local ADU regulations and proposed changes on 
September 25, 2025. The workshop included a staff presentation, polling questions to collect information and feedback, 
and time for attendees to ask questions related to the proposed ADU Ordinance update effort. Information related to this 
1 ADU Handbook link

--- page 288 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
policy effort is included on the City’s Policy and Zoning Code Update page.
DISCUSSION:
Proposed Ordinance Amendments
The proposed ADU Ordinance amendments are included in the Draft Ordinance (Attachment 1). A version with track to 
show where edits have been proposed to the existing ADU Ordinance text is also included as Attachment 2. Some of these 
edits are more minor/structural to improve organization for clarity, while other changes would result in a change to 
existing ADU development standards. A complete summary of those changes that result in a new or changed ADU 
development standard is discussed below. 
Changes Proposed in Response to HCD Comments and State Law Compliance
The changes listed below have been made primarily to address specific comments provided by HCD in their review of the 
City’s ADU Ordinance. These changes include updates to areas of the Ordinance that are either directly inconsistent with 
State ADU law, or where additional clarification was requested by HCD to demonstrate State law compliance. 
1.
ADU Definition
HCD provided a comment noting that the City’s ADU definition only includes reference to single-family ADUs. This 
is inconsistent with State law, as ADUs must be allowed on lots with single-family or multifamily dwellings. 
Therefore, a new ADU definition is proposed as follows: “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an attached or 
detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, 
is accessory to the primary residential dwelling unit(s), and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, 
eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same lot as a Single-Family Dwelling Structure or Multifamily 
Dwelling Structure is or will be situated.”
2.
Multifamily Dwelling Structure Definition
The City’s existing Ordinance includes a definition for “Multiple Family Dwelling”, which is defined as “a building or 
portion thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other”. 
Additionally, the City’s existing Ordinance includes a separate definition for “Two-family dwelling”, which is 
defined as “a building(s) designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or detached dwelling units for occupancy 
by two families living independently of each other.” HCD provided a comment to indicate that these definitions are 
inconsistent with the types of unit configurations that HCD would consider to qualify as “multifamily dwellings.” 
For the purposes of State ADU law, two or more attached units on a lot are considered multifamily, and individual 
detached units (even if there are multiple detached units on one lot) would be considered single-family. 
To address this comment, a new definition for “Multifamily Dwelling Structure” has been added that is only 
applicable to ADU development. Consistent with State ADU law, the added definition for “Multifamily Dwelling 
Structure” refers to “a structure with two or more attached primary residential dwelling units.” 
3.
Allowance for Separate Sale of ADUs per Government Code Section 66341
The City’s existing ordinance prohibits ADUs from being sold separately from the primary residence, with no 
exceptions specified. HCD identified that this is inconsistent with Government Code Section 66341, which requires 
that the City allow for separate sale of ADUs that are built or developed by a qualified nonprofit corporation, with 
additional specific qualifying criteria. Therefore, the update references this statute to allow for separate sales of 
ADUs, only when specified criteria are met.
4.
Proportionality for ADU Impact Fees
The City’s existing ordinance states that development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set 
forth by resolution of the City Council. HCD identified that additional clarity is needed to ensure that ADUs less 
than 750 square feet are not subject to impact fees, and that impact fees charged for ADUs of 750 square feet or 
more must be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary residential unit. Therefore, 
language has been added to explicitly state these requirements. For reference, proportionality refers to the size of

--- page 289 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the ADU in relation to the size of the primary dwelling. For example, if a 1,000 square foot ADU is proposed on a 
lot with a 2,000 square foot residence, the ADU could be charged 50% of the impact fees that would be applied to 
a new primary residence on the same size. 
5.
Utility Fee Clarification
Separate from impact fees, State law allows for a jurisdiction to charge a connection fee or capacity charge for 
utilities. This charge must be proportionate to the burden of the proposed ADU, based either on square footage or 
number of drainage fixture unit values. Currently, the City’s ADU Ordinance does include a provision to require 
payment of a connection fee or capacity charge for ADUs that are separate from an existing structure. However, 
this connection fee or capacity charge may only be imposed when an ADU is constructed with a new single-family 
dwelling. Therefore, language has been added to clarify that “An ADU shall not be considered a new residential 
use for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer 
service, except when the ADU is constructed with a new primary residential dwelling unit.”
6.
Removal of Reference to Variance Process
The City’s existing ADU Ordinance includes a statement that “All other zoning requirements shall be complied with 
unless an authorized variance is approved.” HCD commented that the City should amend the Ordinance to “bolster 
clarity regarding the ADU approval process,” which must provide for ministerial review under State Law. 
Therefore, this reference to the variance process has been removed from the ADU Ordinance. 
7.
Number of ADUs Permitted with Single-Family
HCD has now interpreted that State law requires that single-family lots be allowed to develop up to three types of 
ADUs, as is reflected in Government Code Section 66323. The three required types are:
a.
One Attached or Conversion ADU (from existing or proposed space within a structure) 
b.
One Detached New Construction ADU. 
c.
One JADU, located within the walls of an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling
HCD’s January 2025 ADU Handbook (p. 19), confirms that all three types must be allowed concurrently when a lot 
has an existing or proposed single-family dwelling, and local agencies may not restrict a property to fewer than 
these three units if each meets the applicable development standards. Current City regulations allow only two 
ADUs (one ADU and one JADU). To comply with State law and HCD’s interpretation, the update will now allow up 
to three ADUs on a single-family lot. 
8.
Front Setback Clarification
HCD commented that the City may not impose a front setback requirement that would preclude construction of an 
ADU of up to 800 square feet with four-foot side and rear setbacks. Under current local ADU regulations, all new 
construction ADUs are subject to the front setback of the underlying zoning district. Therefore, language has been 
added to clarify that “no front setback is required for a State Exempt ADU.” HCD has provided interpretation that 
because no front setback is otherwise specified in State ADU law, no front setback may be imposed on state-
exempt ADUs; however, the City may still impose a front setback on other new construction ADUs that are not 
considered state-exempt units. 
“State Exempt ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is created pursuant to Government Code Section 
66323. This includes conversion ADUs within an existing single-family residence or accessory structure, as well as a 
new detached ADU of not more than 800 square feet, with four-foot side and rear setbacks.  
9.
Architectural Standards – Not Applicable to State Exempt ADUs
The City’s existing ADU Ordinance includes several architectural standards for ADUs. HCD provided a comment to 
clarify that these architectural standards may not preclude development of  “State Exempt ADUs.” This has been 
addressed in the update, which includes definitions of “State Exempt ADUs” and “Nonexempt ADUs”, and clearly 
states that the architectural standards shall only apply to Nonexempt ADUs. In practice, these architectural 
standards would apply to new construction detached ADUs exceeding 800 square feet in size, new construction 
attached ADUs, and ADUs reviewed under the Accessory Dwelling Unit Discretionary Review (ADUDR) process.

--- page 290 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
10. Design Standards – Removal of Subjective Standards 
State ADU law allows for local ordinances to impose only objective standards on accessory dwelling units. 
Objective standards are defined as “standards that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official 
and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and 
knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official prior to submittal.”
In their review of the City’s existing ADU Ordinance, HCD noted that some of the design standards such as 
requiring similar exterior materials to the main home, and windows that maximize privacy, are subjective in nature 
and therefore must be either removed or amended to be objective in nature. To address this comment, the 
subjective standards referring to “architectural style of the primary dwelling unit,” “similar exterior materials and 
finishes, and family of colors as the primary unit,” “offset windows from neighbor’s windows to maximize privacy,” 
and “uniform and integrated design [when attached to an] accessory structure” have been removed.
11. JADU Interior Access Requirements
Under current local requirements, all JADUs are required to have an interior access between the JADU and the 
single-family dwelling. However, HCD has clarified that per State Law, an interior access is only required when the 
JADU does not include a separate bathroom. City staff met with HCD to discuss these requirements and identified 
that if a JADU shared utility controls (such as access to a thermostat for heating and cooling), this would also 
necessitate interior access between units to ensure that the JADU tenant has access to the shared controls. To 
address these instances where interior access is required, the update amends this language to specify that interior 
access is required between the JADU and single-family dwelling when they share restroom facilities and/or utility 
controls such as a thermostat. Otherwise, the update clarifies that “for a JADU with its own sanitation facilities and 
utility controls, interior access is not required but may be provided voluntarily.”
12. Maximum JADU Size
State law defines a Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) as “a unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size 
and contained entirely within a single-family residence. A junior accessory dwelling unit may include separate 
sanitation facilities or may share sanitation facilities with the existing structure.” HCD commented that the City’s 
current JADU size maximum of 650 square feet exceeded the maximum unit size for a JADU allowed under State 
law. In the City’s initial response letter, staff explained that the 650 square-foot maximum size was adopted after 
prior consultation with HCD. At the time, City staff considered the more permissive maximum size would be 
acceptable if it was aligned with the overall function and use of JADUs. However, after further consultation with 
HCD following their most recent review letter, HCD confirmed that the 500 square-foot JADU size limit defined in 
State Law is what would be enforced moving forward based on a strict read of the Government Code. Since this 
direction was provided by HCD, City staff have already been enforcing this requirement consistent with State law. 
The update includes a revision to reflect this HCD guidance, reducing the JADU maximum unit size from 650 square 
feet to 500 square feet.  
13. JADU Deed Restriction Requirements
All JADUs are required by State Law to record a deed restriction with the following provisions:
a.
A prohibition on the sale of the junior accessory dwelling unit separate from the sale of the single-family 
residence, including a statement that the deed restriction may be enforced against future purchasers; and
b.
A restriction on the size and attributes of the junior accessory dwelling unit.
The City’s current ordinance includes provisions consistent with the two listed in State law (above), plus two 
additional provisions that are included in JADU deed restrictions: 
c.
The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the JADU; and
d.
If the JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar days. 
As part of HCD’s review, they noted that these two additional provisions go beyond what is explicitly listed by 
State law to be included in a JADU deed restriction and they must be removed from the City’s deed restriction

--- page 291 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
requirements. Therefore, these additional provisions have been removed. However, while not explicitly listed in a 
JADU deed restriction, the JADU owner occupancy requirement and prohibition on using JADUs for short-term 
rentals are both still requirements under State Law and in the City’s ADU Ordinance. So, even though they will be 
removed from JADU deed restrictions, they will remain as requirements that must be followed.  A recent update to 
State law (Assembly Bill 1154, signed by the Governor on October 10, 2025, to become effective January 1, 2026) 
has amended owner-occupancy requirements to only apply if the JADU has shared bathroom facilities with the 
existing structure. Therefore, this requirement has been updated to clarify that owner-occupancy is not required if 
the JADU has its own bathroom. 
14. Addition of Multifamily ADU Development Standards
The current ADU Ordinance does not include specific standards for multifamily ADUs. Rather, there is a reference 
within the local Ordinance to Government Code Section 65852.2(e)(1), which previously included standards for 
multifamily ADU development. However, State Law standards for multifamily ADUs were updated under SB 1211, 
and became effective January 1, 2025. Additionally, Senate Bill 477, effective as of March 25, 2024, made changes 
to the numbering of the sections of Government Code for State ADU and JADU Laws, thereby making the cross-
reference to Government Code 65852.2 in the local ADU Ordinance incorrect (this is now under new Government 
Code Section 66323).
Most notably, SB 1211 included a change to the number of ADUs permitted on a lot with an existing multifamily 
dwelling. Previously, up to two new detached ADUs were permitted on a lot with an existing or proposed 
multifamily dwelling. However, this has been updated to allow up to eight new detached ADUs on a lot with an 
existing multifamily dwelling, provided that the number of ADUs cannot exceed the number of existing primary 
multifamily dwelling units on the lot. SB 1211 did not make any changes to State law provisions for multifamily 
conversion ADU standards, which must be allowed in combination with new detached ADUs on lots with existing 
multifamily structures. The number of conversion ADUs allowed on a multifamily lot is determined based on the 
number of existing units – at least one, and up to 25% of the existing number of units. These conversion units must 
be created from existing non-habitable space within a multifamily structure (such as attached garage or storage 
areas). There were also no changes made to State law allowances for ADUs proposed with new construction 
multifamily residential - on lot with a proposed multifamily dwelling, only up to two new detached ADUs may be 
constructed. 
To provide more clarity and reduce the need to cross reference Government Code sections to determine 
multifamily ADU standards, the ordinance update includes a new section for Multifamily ADU Development 
Standards, which outlines these provisions consistent with State law. 
Other Changes Proposed to Address Local Needs and Ordinance Functionality 
The below changes have been added, in addition to the changes specifically required by HCD, in order to address issues 
identified by City staff to improve functionality and clarity in implementing the ADU Ordinance. The Planning Commission 
Study Session on August 26, 2025 and community workshop on September 25, 2025 introduced these topic areas for 
discussion and feedback to help inform how to proceed with these updates. Based on the input received, below is a 
summary of the additional proposed changes  .
15. Addition of Definitions Section 
The ordinance update includes a new section at the beginning of the chapter with ADU-related definitions, with 
the definitions only applicable to the ADU Ordinance (Chapter 27.19). This helps to provide organizational clarity 
and will also help to clearly define the different categories of ADUs that are regulated within the Ordinance. 
16. Updates to Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Review
The City’s existing ADU Ordinance provides two paths for ADU review. The first is a ministerial building permit for 
any ADU that meets the development standards of the Ordinance (including objective standards like setbacks, 
height, and unit size, as well as some additional standards which are more subjective related to architectural style 
of the primary residence and privacy). The second option is for an Accessory Dwelling Unit Discretionary Review

--- page 292 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(ADUDR), subject to a Planning Application approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to building permit 
application for any ADU that is not in compliance with the development standards of the ADU Ordinance.
At the August 26, 2025 Planning Commission Study Session, staff provided background on the ADUDR process and 
sought direction from the Planning Commission to streamline review by removing the ADUDR process, paired with 
more permissive objective design standards for ADU height and allowances for second-story decks and balconies. 
The Commission provided direction to keep the ADUDR process in the updated Ordinance as an alternative to 
ministerial review to provide a pathway for consideration of ADU designs that exceed the specified objective 
standards to address certain site specific design needs. The Commission was also in favor of staff’s 
recommendation to propose more permissive objective standards, expressing support for the idea that these 
changes would result in more ADU projects qualifying for the more streamlined ministerial review process – the 
proposed changes to height, setback, and second story deck standards are discussed in more detail below.  
In keeping with the Commission’s direction, the ordinance update maintains the provision for Discretionary 
Review as an Alternative to Ministerial Review. The proposed changes to this section are detailed below:
a.
Clarification of ADUDR Applicability – the ordinance update includes added language to clarify that the 
ADUDR process may be used to review any ADU that is not in full compliance with height, setback, or daylight 
plane provisions of the ADU Ordinance, but that the ADUDR process may not be used to increase the 
maximum allowable floor area. 
b.
ADUDR Requirement for Second-Story Decks and Balconies – Under current ADU Ordinance provisions, any 
second-story deck or balcony proposed with an ADU requires ADUDR. The ordinance update includes updated 
objective standards for second-story balconies (discussed further below), which would allow for small, interior 
facing second-story decks or balconies to be reviewed ministerially. Any larger second-story decks or balconies 
that do not meet these objective standards will still require ADUDR under the ordinance update.  
c.
Updated ADUDR Findings – The ordinance update includes changes to the required findings, outlined below:
i.
Removal of a finding that “the proposed ADU would not result in a negative privacy impact on an 
abutting residential lot”. This finding has been removed, as it is subjective and cannot be easily 
enforced. 
ii.
Addition of a finding that “if the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square 
feet, the deck or balcony shall be located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring 
windows or yard spaces, and screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize such views.” This 
finding has been added to provide a more objective and clear standard to address privacy concerns.
iii.
Removal of a finding that “the proposed ADU, when detached and exceeding the height limit, should 
provide at least one additional parking space.” This finding has been removed because it is in conflict 
with the proposed update to remove all parking requirements for ADUs, the language “should” is not 
strictly enforceable, and added voluntary parking provisions have been added to encourage voluntary 
parking be provided for ADUs. 
iv.
Addition of a finding that “if the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane 
standards, there are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would make 
compliance with the standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from applicable standards are 
minimized.” This finding has been added to ensure that there is justification for the exception to a 
specific ADU development standard. 
v.
Addition of a finding that “the proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General 
Plan.” This finding has been added for consistency with the General Plan, and for consistency with 
other application reviews, as this is a standard finding for all Planning Applications.
d.
Updated Appeal Process for ADUDR – The appeal process for the decision of the Zoning Administrator for an 
ADUDR has been streamlined in the ordinance update to provide for appeals to the City Manager or designee, 
which could be a hearing officer.  Under the current Ordinance, the appeal would go to Planning Commission

--- page 293 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
first, then to City Council. 
17. Clarification on Max. ADU Unit Size and FAR Exemption for ADUs
The City’s current regulations do not include any specified maximum ADU size limit. Any ADU floor area exceeding 
800 square feet is regulated by the allowable floor area ratio (FAR) of the underlying zoning. Up to 800 square feet 
of ADU floor area is exempt from the total FAR calculation for a lot. ADUs cannot exceed the size of the primary 
residential unit on the property (either the single-family residence, or any individual unit within a multifamily 
building), with the exception that if the primary residence is less than 800 square feet, an 800 square-foot ADU 
would still be allowed per State law.
State Law requires that the City’s Ordinance cannot preclude ADUs of at least 800 square feet that maintain four-
foot setbacks, regardless of whether they exceed FAR. Additionally, per State law, the City cannot establish ADU 
size maximums below at least 850 square feet for one bedroom or smaller, and at least 1,000 square feet for an 
ADU with more than one bedroom.
At the August 26, 2025 Study Session, staff asked the Planning Commission to consider whether an additional 
maximum size of 1,200 square feet should be introduced for new construction ADUs (additional limit to FAR 
standards). The Planning Commission discussed this matter, with a majority of Commissioners opposed to adding 
an additional maximum size limit. The Commission directed staff to maintain the existing standards, which do not 
set a specific size maximum for ADUs. Therefore, the existing maximum unit size standards have not been 
substantially changed. Staff have proposed minor updates to clarify how FAR exemptions are applied to ADU living 
area. 
18. Height of Detached ADUs
The City’s current ADU Ordinance sets a maximum height for detached ADUs at 16 feet to top plate and 24 feet to 
roof peak. The ordinance update would increase the plate height requirement by two feet, resulting in a maximum 
height for detached ADUs of 18 feet to top plate and 24 feet to roof peak. 
The current standard is not inconsistent with State law, which requires local agencies to allow detached ADUs up 
to 16 feet in height, or up to 18 feet (plus 2 feet for matching roof pitch of existing dwelling) when near qualifying 
transit or for lots with a multi-story, multi-family dwelling, and prohibits denying a compliant two-story ADU 
regardless of local one-story zoning limits. Additionally, the HCD ADU Handbook clarifies that a local agency must 
allow for ADUs to be up to two stories, even if the primary dwelling is one story.  
The increase of plate height allowances for detached ADUs from 16 feet to 18 feet would allow for more standard 
two-story construction with at least eight-foot ceiling heights with 12-14 inches between for the floor structure. 
This height limit will accommodate a reasonably scaled two-story ADU to be approved ministerially, streamlining 
the process by increasing the plate height at which discretionary review for a two-story ADU development would 
be required. Additionally, no change is proposed to the total height to roof peak for detached ADUs, which will 
remain at 24 feet. No change is proposed to the height requirements for attached ADUs, which are currently set at 
24 feet to plate and 32 feet to peak, consistent with the maximum height requirements for single-family 
residences. 
19. Setback Exception for ADUs in Rear Third of a Lot Meeting Specific Standards
In addition to four-foot side and rear setback requirements, the proposed ordinance update includes an exception 
to allow ADUs that meet the existing requirements for an accessory structure in the rear one-third of a parcel to 
have a zero setback. 
Currently, existing zoning standards (SMMC Section 27.70.010) allow accessory structures in the rear one-third of 
a parcel to be built to a zero setback when they meet specified height and daylight plane requirements, do not 
occupy more than 50% of a required yard, and do not exceed more than one habitable floor at ground level. The 
height and daylight plane requirements for an accessory structure within required yards in R1 districts are set at

--- page 294 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
nine feet to top plate, and 16 feet to the roof peak, with a nine-foot 45-degree daylight plane. Under existing 
provisions, accessory structures are allowed to be converted to ADUs, so a homeowner could propose to build an 
accessory structure in the rear one-third of a parcel and then convert it to an ADU.
At the Planning Commission Study Session, staff recommended allowing these accessory structure standards to 
apply to new ADUs built in the rear one-third of the property rather than requiring two steps (first applying for an 
accessory structure within setbacks, then later applying to convert said accessory structure to an ADU). The 
Commission provided direction to include the accessory structure setback exception directly to new ADUs built in 
the rear one-third of a property in the updated ordinance to further streamline ADU production. 
20. Removal of ADU Parking Requirements
The City’s current ADU Ordinance requires a minimum of one standard-sized off-street parking space for each 
ADU. ADU parking can be provided either as covered or uncovered parking, and can be provided in tandem
configuration on a driveway. However, off-street parking cannot be required in any of the following instances:
a.
ADU is within ½ mile walking distance to public transit
b.
ADU is within an architecturally and historically significant historic district
c.
ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or accessory structure
d.
ADU is in an area requiring on-street parking where permits are required but not offered to the occupant 
of the ADU
e.
ADU is located within one block of a car share location.
HCD also noted that the City must also address an additional exemption – when an ADU is proposed along with a 
permit to construct a new single-family or multifamily dwelling. 
All together, these numerous exemptions for ADU parking under State Law would apply to nearly all properties 
within the City of San Mateo that are eligible to build an ADU with just a few small clusters of sites around the 
western edges of the City still subject to ADU parking requirements.  To provide for equitable treatment of all 
properties seeking to build an ADU, the ordinance update proposes to eliminate all off-street parking 
requirements for ADUs. However, in recognition of the fact that the City still encourages and supports off-street 
parking, the ordinance includes some new provisions to encourage voluntary parking be provided for ADUs, as 
outlined below. With the existing exemptions required by State law, nearly all parcels in the City already qualify for 
a parking exemption, so this would not meaningfully change existing parking regulations for ADUs. This item was 
also discussed at the Planning Commission Study Session, where the Commission expressed support for this 
approach, with direction to evaluate additional options to support voluntary off-street parking
21. Additional Voluntary Parking Standards 
To support additional creative approaches to encourage voluntary off-street parking for ADUs and to help address 
the constraints to on-street parking in many residential areas of the City, staff have included additional provisions 
for voluntary off-street parking for ADUs and JADUs, as follows:
a.
Standard - “Voluntarily provided parking associated with ADU or JADU development must be located 
entirely on the same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation”. 
i.
Rationale - Notably, allowing for tandem parking configurations here is a deviation from typical 
parking standards for single-family residential, and allows for more creative solutions to park cars 
in a more space-efficient way on a lot.
b.
Standard - “When a garage or carport is converted to an ADU or JADU, or demolished in conjunction with 
construction of an ADU, the existing driveway and curb cut are not required to be removed and may be 
maintained as parking area”. 
i.
Rationale - This is already allowed in practice, but is clarified in the Ordinance update. Typically, 
when a garage or carport is removed, the driveway must also be removed. Allowing driveways to 
remain when a garage is converted to ADU or JADU living area provides an easy and low-cost

--- page 295 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
solution for off-street parking on the driveway surface. 
c.
Standard - “A maximum of up to two voluntarily provided parking stalls may be provided for each ADU or 
JADU”. 
i.
Rationale  - This provision has been added to ensure that yard areas are not entirely paved over to 
create parking. This limit of two stalls per ADU or JADU would allow for the creation of a 
reasonable number of additional stalls, while also balancing the amount of paved area that can be 
created for parking in required yard areas, which must otherwise be improved with landscaping. It 
should also be noted that the ADU and JADU parking stalls could be provided in addition to parking 
stalls for the primary residence. There is no maximum on the number of stalls that can be provided 
for a primary residence, so long as the stalls meet other development standards (including that 
parking for the primary residence cannot be located within required yard areas).
(a) Standard - “The maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet to accommodate 
additional off-street parking.”
ii.
Rationale  - Typically, single car garage driveways are limited to 17 feet in width, and 20-foot-wide 
driveways are only permitted for two-car garages or larger. By allowing wider driveways to serve 
one-car garages, in addition to the other voluntary parking incentives for ADUs and JADUs, this 
provides a larger driveway area that could be utilized to park additional cars on site. 
d.
Standard - “Uncovered parking for an ADU or JADU may be located in the required front, side, and rear 
yard setback areas. If a covered parking structure is proposed to provide voluntary parking below a 
second-story ADU, the parking structure may be located within the footprint of the proposed ADU, 
provided that it is outside of the front yard setback of the underlying zoning district. When a parking 
structure is proposed within a required side or rear setback of the underlying zoning district, the plate 
height of the parking structure shall not exceed nine feet in height”.
i.
Rationale - This provision provides an incentive to create covered parking under an ADU, solving 
for a mismatch in setback requirements for ADU living area and accessory structures. For example, 
under current requirements, an ADU may be built with a four-foot setback on a street side yard, 
whereas a garage would be subject to a 20-foot street side yard setback in R1 zoning districts. The 
above provision would allow for garage parking to be built to the same four-foot setback as the 
ADU when the parking is below the ADU living area within the same footprint. A nine-foot plate 
height limit is also proposed for garages built within required setbacks like this, consistent with the 
height limit established for accessory structures within the rear third of a parcel under SMMC 
Section 27.70.010(c). 
22. Prohibition of Rooftop Decks or Terraces above an ADU
A standard has been added in the ordinance update to specify that “rooftop decks or terraces above any portion of 
an ADU are prohibited”. This provision is added to clarify a distinction between rooftop decks and terraces, and 
small second-story decks or balconies. 
23. Allowance of Small Second-story decks or balconies with ministerial review if specific standards are met
Under the City’s current ADU Ordinance, all second story decks and balconies require ADUDR review. At the 
Planning Commission Study Session, the Commission provided staff with feedback on this process, expressing 
support for creating objective standards to allow for some second story decks and balconies to be considered 
ministerially. The Commission expressed the importance of providing standards that would ensure deck and 
balcony designs are sensitive to potential privacy impacts to adjacent neighbors. As a part of the ordinance 
update, staff have proposed that small second story decks or balconies may be considered as part of an ADU 
design for ministerial review, provided that the following standards are met:
a.
Standard – “Second story decks or balconies shall not be larger than 50 square feet in size.”
i.
Rationale – At 50 square feet or less, the deck or balcony would be small enough that it is likely to 
be used as more of a passive outdoor space by occupants of the ADU, rather than a large outdoor

--- page 296 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
area for entertaining large groups.
b.
Standard – “No portion of a second story deck or balcony shall be located within the setbacks of the 
underlying zoning, regardless of the ADU setbacks”.
i.
Rationale – This would ensure that a second-story deck or balcony would not be located closer to 
an adjacent property than would otherwise be allowed on the primary residence. This setback 
would only be applied to the deck area – other portions of the ADU structure may still be built to 
four-foot side and rear setbacks. This would provide an additional buffer between the deck area 
and adjacent properties to minimize privacy impacts. 
(b) Standard – “Decks shall only face the interior of the subject property.”
ii.
Rationale – This standard has been added to ensure that second story decks and balconies 
approved ministerially would not result in a condition where the deck or balcony provides direct 
view into the yard or structures on an adjacent property. This has been added to address concerns 
about real or perceived impacts to privacy from second story decks or balconies. 
These proposed standards would allow for small second story balconies and decks to be proposed with ADUs 
considered for ministerial review, while addressing concerns about privacy impacts to adjacent properties. This 
would also provide for additional streamlining for decks and balconies that meet these standards, reducing the 
need for ADUDR review. Second story decks or balconies that do not meet these standards could still be 
considered under the ADUDR process. 
NEXT STEPS:
Following this public hearing and a Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council will hold a public hearing to 
introduce the Ordinance, which is tentatively scheduled for January 26, 2026. Once introduced, the Ordinance would be 
then brought back for second reading and adoption at a subsequent City Council meeting. It would then become effective 
30 days afterwards. After the Ordinance is adopted by City Council, staff will send the Ordinance to HCD for review, as 
required per State law. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Zoning Code Amendments to implement the Housing Element are funded in the Community Development Department’s
annual operating budget, utilizing the Advanced Planning Fund (Fund 225), and does not impact the City’s General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines because it is an 
accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the Government Code related to ADUs and 
JADUs. 
PUBLIC NOTICING AND COMMENTS:
All meeting noticing requirements were met, including the publishing of a public notice in the newspaper of general 
circulation and posting at City facilities at least 20 days in advance of the public meeting in compliance with Assembly Bill 
(AB) 2094 and Government Code Section 65854. Additionally, staff sent meeting details in the Planning Division 
eNewsletter, citywide eNewsletter, the Housing Element interested parties list and posted to the Planning Division’s 
What’s Happening in Development webpage. Prior to this public hearing, notice was also provided in the Planning Division 
eNewsletter, the citywide eNewsletter, and on City Social Media to advertise the August 26, 2025 Planning Commission 
Study Session and September 25, 2025 Virtual Outreach Webinar. 
Staff has not received any public comments on this item as of the publication of the agenda report. Public comments 
submitted after agenda publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public 
Comments.”

--- page 297 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS

--- page 298 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 1 – Draft Ordinance
Att 2 – ADU Ordinance (Track Changes)
Att 3 – HCD Review Letter
Att 4 – City Response Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Elizabeth Gagliardi, Associate Planner 
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206

--- page 299 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
Recommend that the City Council introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments 
from the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) to align with current state 
law, and to address Housing Element programs.  
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling 
Units is codified as Chapter 27.19, as adopted on March 21, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, several amendments to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law have been adopted since adoption 
of Chapter 27.19; and 
WHEREAS, Policy LU 3.1 - Housing Diversity of the Land Use Element of General Plan 2040, promotes 
safe, attractive, and walkable residential neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, 
families, and households of all income levels; and 
WHEREAS, under Policy H1.4 - Support Increased Accessory Dwelling Unit Development of the Housing 
Element of General Plan 2040, the City is to amend the Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance to align with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by the California Housing and Community Development 
Department; and 
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2024, the City received a letter from the California Housing and Community 
Development Department outlining provisions in the City of San Mateo Zoning Ordinance that were inconsistent 
with State Accessory Dwelling Unit regulations; and 
WHEREAS, these changes to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law necessitate amendments to Chapter 
27.19; and 
WHEREAS, this ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the 
CEQA Guidelines because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the 
Government Code related to Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. 
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received 
all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed ordinance 
to amend Chapter 27.19. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. The title of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
Section 2. Article 1 of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 3. Section 27.19.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:

--- page 300 ---
27.19.020 Definitions. 
The definitions in this Section shall apply only to this Chapter. 
(a) “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which 
provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary residential 
dwelling unit(s), and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation 
on the same lot as a Single-Family Dwelling Structure or Multifamily Dwelling Structure is or will be situated. 
(1) “Attached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is attached to a primary residential 
dwelling unit, or portion thereof (including an attached garage or accessory structure). 
(2) “Conversion ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit created by the conversion of any 
existing structure or portion thereof. The Conversion ADU may be created using existing structural 
components of the existing structure, or may be reconstructed to the same extent as the existing 
structure. 
(3) “Detached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is separated from a primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(4) “New Construction ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the 
definition and requirements of a Conversion ADU. 
(5) “Nonexempt ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the definition of a 
State Exempt ADU.  
(6) “State Exempt ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is created pursuant to 
Government Code Section 66323. 
(7) “Multifamily ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or proposed 
Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(8) “Single-Family ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or proposed 
Single-Family Dwelling Structure.  
(b) “ADU Living Area” means the interior conditioned space within an Accessory Dwelling Unit, such as 
areas used for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and may also include attic or basement areas 
connected to the ADU. ADU Living Area does not include non-habitable spaces such as garages, carports, 
unconditioned utility rooms, enclosed storage areas not internally accessible by the ADU, or other accessory 
structures attached to the ADU.  
(c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” (JADU) means a unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size and 
contained entirely within an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling.  
(d) “Multifamily Dwelling Structure” means a structure with two or more attached primary residential 
dwelling units.

--- page 301 ---
(e) “Single-Family Dwelling Structure" means a one-family dwelling primary residential unit that either 
stands alone on a lot or is detached from other primary residential dwelling unit(s) on the same lot. 
Section 4. Section 27.19.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental. 
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence, except as allowed by Government 
Code Section 66341. 
(b) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residential dwelling unit.  
(c) If an ADU or JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days. 
Section 5. Section 27.19.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Approval. 
A permit application for an ADU and/or a JADU is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in 
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this 
Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU or JADU permit may not be appealed. 
Section 6. Section 27.19.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval. 
(a) As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for discretionary 
review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with the height, setback, or daylight plane provisions of 
this Chapter, and/or for an ADU that proposes a second story deck or balcony exceeding the standards outlined 
in this Chapter. The discretionary review application shall not be used to increase the maximum allowable floor 
area of a lot. The application for discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator finds all of 
the following: 
(1) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in the adopted 
R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines. 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or welfare. 
(3) If the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane standards, 
there are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would make compliance with the 
standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from applicable standards are minimized. 
(4) If the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square feet, the deck or 
balcony is located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring windows or yard spaces, and 
screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize such views.  
(5) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General Plan.

--- page 302 ---
(b) The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant to receive a 
ministerial permit for an ADU that is in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
(c) The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the City Manager or designee, which 
may be a hearing officer. 
Section 7. Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.050 General Requirements. 
Applicability. The following shall apply to ADUs and JADUs in all zoning districts that allow for residential 
uses: 
(a) The provisions of this Chapter apply only to ADU Living Area. Accessory structures, such as garages, 
carports, non-habitable utility rooms, storage areas, or sheds, whether detached or attached to an ADU, shall be 
subject to the requirements of the underlying zoning district and other applicable provisions of the Zoning Code. 
(b) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set 
forth by resolution of the City Council. No impact fees shall be charged for ADUs 750 square feet in size or 
smaller. Any impact fees charged for an ADU over 750 square feet shall be charged proportionately in relation to 
the square footage of the primary residential dwelling unit.  
(c) Utility Service. For Conversion ADUs, a separate water connection, a sewer service connection, or 
power connection is not required. If an ADU is not converted from existing space, the City may require new or 
separate utility connections. 
(d) Utility Fees. For a Conversion ADU, payment of a connection fee or capacity charge is not required. 
For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of a connection fee or 
capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's burden. An ADU shall not be considered a new residential use 
for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer 
service, except when the ADU is constructed with a new primary residential dwelling unit. 
(e) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
Section 8. Section 27.19.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.060 Single-Family ADU Development Standards. 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to ADUs located on a lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. Number of Units. A lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling Structure may 
include any combination of the following three types of ADUs, provided that each meets the applicable 
development standards. 
(1) One Attached or Conversion ADU. 
(2) One Detached New Construction ADU.

--- page 303 ---
(3) One JADU, provided it is located within the walls of an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. 
(b) Maximum Unit Size and Floor Area Ratio (FAR). FAR and unit size maximums for both Attached and 
Detached ADUs  in excess of 800 square feet are governed by the maximum FAR established by the underlying 
zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot.  Up to 800 square feet of ADU floor area, 
including New Construction State Exempt ADUs, is exempt from the maximum FAR for each lot with a Single-
Family Dwelling Structure. This exemption does not apply to JADU floor area. In addition, the following shall 
apply: 
(1) An ADU shall not be larger, in terms of floor area, than the primary residential dwelling unit. 
However, when the primary residential dwelling unit is less than or equal to 800 square feet in size, a 
State Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed.  
(2)  A Conversion ADU within the walls of an existing primary dwelling unit or accessory 
structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be expanded up to 150 square feet 
beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to accommodate ingress and egress to the 
ADU. 
(c) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs. 
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADU is 24 feet 
to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 18 feet 
to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(d) Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows: 
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing garage or accessory structure that is converted 
to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions, footprint, and height 
as the existing structure; or for a Detached ADU that is proposed in the rear one-third of a lot that 
otherwise meets all requirements of accessory buildings and structures in required yards of R1 districts 
pursuant to Chapter 27.70. 
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing garage. 
(3) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all New Construction ADUs not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) 
above, including ADUs constructed above an existing garage. No setback is required for a State Exempt 
ADU. 
(e) Unit Access. An ADU must include a separate exterior entrance from the primary residential dwelling 
unit. An interior access may be provided between the two units, but is not required. 
(f) ADU and JADU Parking Standards.

--- page 304 ---
(1) General Requirements. No off-street parking shall be required for any ADU or JADU. The 
required parking for the primary residential dwelling unit(s) must comply with the underlying zoning 
district’s current standards, except when an existing garage, carport, or covered parking structure is 
converted to an ADU or JADU or demolished in conjunction with construction of an ADU. When this 
occurs, no replacement off-street parking is required for the primary residential dwelling unit. 
(2) Voluntary Parking. Off street parking for an ADU or JADU may be provided voluntarily. 
Voluntarily provided parking associated with ADU or JADU development must be located entirely on the 
same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, 
the following provisions may be applied to create voluntary parking for an ADU or JADU. 
(A) When a garage or carport is converted to an ADU or JADU, or demolished in 
conjunction with construction of an ADU, the existing driveway and curb cut are not required to 
be removed, and may be maintained as parking area.  
(B) A maximum of up to two voluntarily provided parking stalls may be provided for 
each ADU or JADU. 
(C) The maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet to 
accommodate additional off-street parking.  
(D) Uncovered parking for an ADU or JADU may be located in the required front, side, 
and rear yard setback areas. If a covered parking structure is proposed to provide voluntary 
parking below a second-story ADU, the parking structure may be located within the footprint of 
the proposed ADU, provided that it is outside of the front yard setback of the underlying zoning 
district. When a parking structure is proposed within a required side or rear setback of the 
underlying zoning district, the plate height of the parking structure shall not exceed 9 feet in 
height. 
(g) Architectural Standards. Nonexempt ADUs shall be designed to comply with the following standards, 
as applicable: 
(1) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as applied to 
the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines. 
(2) Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five feet from the 
finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with an abutting residential lot. 
(3) When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five feet from the 
nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the minimum area required to 
allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building Code. 
(4) Rooftop decks or terraces above any portion of an ADU are prohibited. 
(5) When a second-story deck or balcony is proposed within a two-story ADU, the following shall 
apply: 
(A) Second story decks or balconies shall not be larger than 50 square feet in size; and

--- page 305 ---
(B) No portion of a second story deck or balcony shall be located within the setbacks of 
the underlying zoning, regardless of the ADU setbacks; and  
(C) Decks shall only face the interior of the subject property. 
Section 9. Article 2 of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 10. Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.070 Multifamily ADU Development Standards. 
(a)  Applicability. This section applies to all ADUs located on lots with existing or proposed Multifamily 
Dwelling Structure(s).  
(b) Number of Units Allowed. 
(1) On a lot with a proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure, up two new Detached ADUs may be 
allowed.  
(2) On a lot with an existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure, the following ADUs may be 
permitted in combination: 
(A)  Up to eight New Construction Detached ADUs may be allowed, provided that the 
number of ADUs shall not exceed the number of existing primary residential dwelling units on 
the lot.  
(B) Conversion ADUs created by converting non-living space within an existing 
Multifamily Dwelling Structure. The number of non-living space Conversion ADUs may be at 
least one, and not more than 25 percent of the number of existing primary residential dwelling 
units.  
(c) Maximum Unit Size.  
(1) An ADU shall not have a larger floor area than the smallest primary residential dwelling unit 
on a lot. When the smallest primary residential dwelling unit is less than 800 square feet, then a State 
Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the existing space of a Multifamily Dwelling Structure is not subject 
to size requirements.  
(3) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area size maximums for both Attached and Detached ADUs are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining floor 
area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square feet of ADU Living Area is exempt from total FAR 
for the lot. The exemption for ADU floor area up to 800 square feet shall be applied individually to each 
new Detached ADU proposed on a lot with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure.  
(4) In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, only New 
Construction State Exempt ADUs of up to 800 square feet are allowed.

--- page 306 ---
(d) Height - Maximum building height for a new Detached Multifamily ADU is 18 feet to top plateline 
and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(e) Setbacks.  
(1) For new Detached Multifamily ADUs, a minimum setback of four feet from side and rear 
property lines is required.  
(2) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all new Multifamily ADUs. No front setback is required for a New Construction 
Detached State Exempt ADU. 
(f) Parking. The single-family ADU development parking standards of this Chapter shall apply to 
Multifamily ADUs. 
(g) Architectural standards. The single-family ADU development architectural standards of this Chapter 
shall apply to Nonexempt ADUs on lots with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure.  
(h) Separation between structures. New Detached Multifamily ADUs shall be separated from the 
primary structure by a minimum of four feet, open to the sky. Where multiple new Detached ADUs are 
proposed, the ADUs may be attached to each other, but must be detached from the primary structure.  
Section 11. Section 27.19.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.080 JADU Development Standards. 
(a) Applicability. The development standards in this section shall apply to all JADUs. 
(b) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow single-family 
residential use, or for which a Single-Family Dwelling Structure exists or is proposed to be built. The residential 
lot shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other Multi-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(c) Limit to the Number of JADUs permitted. The number of JADUs is limited to one per residential lot 
with a Single-Family Residential Dwelling Structure. Lots with Multi-Family Dwelling Structures are not eligible 
for JADUs. 
(d) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district. 
(e) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district. 
(f) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed or 
legally existing Single-Family Dwelling Structure, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into a JADU. 
(g) Unit Access. A JADU must include:

--- page 307 ---
(1) A separate exterior to serve the JADU only; and 
(2) When a JADU shares sanitation facilities or utility controls (such as a thermostat for heating 
and cooling), an interior entry access between the JADU and the Single-Family Dwelling Structure is 
required.  For a JADU with its own sanitation facilities and utility controls, interior access is not required, 
but may be provided voluntarily. 
(h) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components: 
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and 
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU. 
(i) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation 
facilities with the primary dwelling unit. 
(j) Building and Fire Requirements. 
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated improvements 
meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to the main living area 
for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke 
alarm in the main residence. 
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector. 
(k) Utility Service. Separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service are not required for a JADU. 
(l) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU. 
(m) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
(n) Owner Occupancy. If the JADU has shared sanitation facilities with the existing structure, owner-
occupancy shall be required. The owner may reside in either the remaining portion of the structure or the newly 
created JADU. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the JADU has its own sanitation facilities, or if the 
owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. 
Section 12. Section 27.19.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.19.090 JADU Deed Restriction. 
(a) Prior to building permit issuance for a JADU, a deed restriction shall be recorded to indicate the 
following:

--- page 308 ---
(1) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited. 
(2) The approved size and attributes of the JADU. 
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant. 
Section 13. Section 27.19.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 14. Section 27.19.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 15. Section 27.19.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 16. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 27080.7 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), this action is statutorily exempt from 
the requirements of CEQA because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing provisions of 
the Government Code related to ADUs and JAUDs. 
Section 17. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
Section 18. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 19. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
Place attachments here

--- page 309 ---
Chapter 27.19 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS—RESIDENTIAL 
ZONES 
Article I Accessory Dwelling Unit 
27.19.010 Purpose. 
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units 
(ADUs) in accordance with state law. 
27.19.020 ReservedDefinitions. 
The definitions in this Section shall apply only to this Chapter. 
(a) “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an attached or detached residential dwelling 
unit which provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to 
the primary residential dwelling unit(s), and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, 
eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same lot as a Single-Family Dwelling Structure or 
Multifamily Dwelling Structure is or will be situated. 
(1) “Attached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is attached to a primary 
residential dwelling unit, or portion thereof (including an attached garage or accessory 
structure). 
(2) “Conversion ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit created by the conversion 
of any existing structure or portion thereof. The Conversion ADU may be created using 
existing structural components of the existing structure, or may be reconstructed to the 
same extent as the existing structure. 
(3) “Detached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is separated from a 
primary residential dwelling unit. 
(4) “New Construction ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit that does not meet 
the definition and requirements of a Conversion ADU. 
(5) “Nonexempt ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the 
definition of a State Exempt ADU.  
(6) “State Exempt ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is created pursuant 
to Government Code Section 66323. 
(7) “Multifamily ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or 
proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure.

--- page 310 ---
(8) “Single-Family ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing 
or proposed Single-Family Dwelling Structure.  
(b) “ADU Living Area” means the interior conditioned space within an Accessory Dwelling 
Unit, such as areas used for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and may also include 
attic or basement areas connected to the ADU. ADU Living Area does not include non-habitable 
spaces such as garages, carports, unconditioned utility rooms, enclosed storage areas not 
internally accessible by the ADU, or other accessory structures attached to the ADU.  
(c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” (JADU) means a unit that is no more than 500 square 
feet in size and contained entirely within an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling.  
(d) “Multifamily Dwelling Structure” means a structure with two or more attached primary 
residential dwelling units. 
(e) “Single-Family Dwelling Structure" means a one-family dwelling primary residential unit 
that either stands alone on a lot or is detached from other primary residential dwelling unit(s) on 
the same lot. 
 
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental. 
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence, except as allowed by 
Government Code Section 66341. 
(a)(b) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residential dwelling unit.  
(b)(c) If an ADU or JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 
consecutive calendar days. 
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Approval. 
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADUan ADU and/or a JADU 
is required in order to demonstrate that athe unit is in compliance with the provisions of this 
ArticleChapter. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this ArticleChapter, a 
ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
this Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU or JADU permit is not appealablemay not be appealed. 
27.19.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval. 
(a) As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for 
discretionary review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with the provisions of this 
Articleheight, setback, or daylight plane provisions of this Chapter, and/or for an ADU that 
proposes a second story deck or balcony exceeding the standards outlined in this Chapter. The

--- page 311 ---
discretionary review application shall not be used to increase the maximum allowable floor area of 
a lot.  
(b)(a) The application for discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator 
finds each all of the following: 
(1) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in 
the adopted R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines.; 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative privacy impact on an abutting 
residential lot; and 
(3)(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, 
safety, or welfare. 
(4) The proposed ADU, when detached and exceeding the height limit, should 
provide at least one additional off-street parking space. 
(3) If the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane 
standards, there are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would 
make compliance with the standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from 
applicable standards are minimized. 
(4) If the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square feet, the 
deck or balcony is located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring windows 
or yard spaces, and screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize such views.  
(5) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General 
Plan.  
(c)(b) The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant 
to receive a ministerial permit pursuant to Section 27.19.040 for an ADU that is in full compliance 
with the provisions of this ArticleChapter. 
The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Planning CommissionCity 
Manager or designee, which may be a hearing officer., and the decision of the Planning 
Commission may be appealed to the City Council, in accordance with SMMC 27.08.090. 
(c)  
27.19.050 Development Standards27.19.050 General Requirements 
Applicability. The following shall apply to ADUs and JADUs in all zoning districts that allow 
for residential uses:

--- page 312 ---
(a) The provisions of this Chapter apply only to ADU Living Area. Accessory structures, such 
as garages, carports, non-habitable utility rooms, storage areas, or sheds, whether detached or 
attached to an ADU, shall be subject to the requirements of the underlying zoning district and other 
applicable provisions of the Zoning Code. 
(b) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in 
an amount set forth by resolution of the City Council. No impact fees shall be charged for ADUs 
750 square feet in size or smaller. Any impact fees charged for an ADU over 750 square feet shall 
be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary residential dwelling unit.  
(c) Utility Service. For Conversion ADUs, a separate water connection, a sewer service 
connection, or power connection is not required. If an ADU is not converted from existing space, 
the City may require new or separate utility connections. 
(d) Utility Fees. For a Conversion ADU, payment of a connection fee or capacity charge is 
not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of 
a connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's burden. An ADU shall not be 
considered a new residential use for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity 
charges for utilities, including water and sewer service, except when the ADU is constructed with a 
new primary residential dwelling unit. 
(e) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include 
application for a separate address assignment. 
27.19.060 Single-Family ADU Development Standards 
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development 
standards: 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to ADUs located on a lot with an existing or proposed 
Single-Family Dwelling Structure. Number of Units. A lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure may include any combination of the following three types of ADUs, provided 
that each meets the applicable development standards. 
(1) One Attached or Conversion ADU. 
(2) One Detached New Construction ADU. 
(3) One JADU, provided it is located within the walls of an existing or proposed 
Single-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on a lot zoned to allow 
residential uses.

--- page 313 ---
(b) Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be 
constructed on any lot. 
(c) State Exempted "By Right" ADUs. An attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-
feet in size and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks may be 
constructed on a lot regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing 
primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane, open space, or minimum lot size 
that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. The floor area of any new ADU in excess of 
800 square feet shall be applied to the maximum floor area allowance of the subject lot as 
prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
(b) Maximum Unit Size and Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor areaFAR and unit size maximums 
for both Aattached and Ddetached ADUs development in excess of 800 square feet are governed 
by the floor area maximum FAR established by the underlying zoning district and remaining floor 
area allowance available on the lot. In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has 
been fully utilized, only the state exempted "by right" ADU of up to 800 square feet is permitted. Up 
to 800 square feet of ADU floor area, including New Construction State Exempt ADUs, is exempt 
from the maximum FAR for each lot with a Single-Family Dwelling Structure. This exemption does 
not apply to JADU floor area. In addition, the following shall apply: 
(1) An ADU shall not be larger, in terms of floor area, than the primary residential 
dwelling unit. However, when the primary residential dwelling unit is less than or equal to 
800 square feet in size, a State Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed.  
(d)  
(1)(2) Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions. An ADU  Ac Conversion ADU within the 
walls of an existing primary residence dwelling unit or accessory structure is not subject to 
size requirements. ADU conversions may be expanded up to 150 square feet beyond the 
existing footprint provided the expansion is used to accommodate ingress and egress to the 
ADU. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. Subject 
to the floor area requirements, one new detached ADU may be constructed on a lot with a 
junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU). 
(e)(c) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which 
permit ADUs. 
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached 
ADU is 24 feet to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached 
ADU is 16 18 feet to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade.

--- page 314 ---
(3) Alternative Discretionary Review for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.  For a 
detached ADU proposed to exceed the height limit, an application for discretionary review, 
pursuant to Section 27.19.045, shall be submitted. 
(f)(d) Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows: 
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or 
accessory structure that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location 
and to the same dimensions, footprint, and height as the existing structure; or for a 
Detached ADU that is proposed in the rear one-third of a lot that otherwise meets all 
requirements of accessory buildings and structures in required yards of R1 districts 
pursuant to Chapter 27.70. 
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines 
for all new ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, 
including ADUs constructed above an existing legally permitted garage. 
(g)(3) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying 
zone district, shall be required for all Nnew Construction ADUs construction not meeting 
the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed above an existing 
legally permitted garage. No front setback is required for a State Exempt ADU. 
(h)(e) Unit Access. AnThe  ADU , whether attached or detached, shallmust include provide 
a separate exterior entrance from the primary residential dwelling unit. An interior access may be 
provided between the two units, but is not required., and permanent provisions for living, sleeping, 
eating, cooking, and sanitation. 
(i) Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached 
from the primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted 
in the same locations on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning 
district. 
(j)(f) Number and Type of Required Parking SpacesADU and JADU Parking Standards. 
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street 
parking space for each ADU. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 feet wide 
by 18 feet long without any obstructions. Parking associated with ADU or JADU 
development, whether required or voluntary, must be located entirely on the same lot, and 
may be provided in a garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, 
maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet to accommodate 
additional off-street parking. The required parking for the primary residential dwelling unit 
must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying zoning district.

--- page 315 ---
(2) Location of Parking for Accessory Dwelling Units.  Parking for the accessory 
dwelling unit may be located in the required front, side, and rear yard setback areas. 
(3) Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or 
covered parking structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or 
converted to an ADU. 
(4) Parking Exemptions.  No additional off-street parking shall be required for an 
ADU in the following instances: 
i. 
The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public 
transit; or 
ii. The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant 
historic district; or 
iii. The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary 
residence or an existing legally permitted accessory structure; or 
iv. In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not 
offered to the occupant of the ADU; or 
v. When the ADU is located within one block of a car share location. 
(1) General Requirements. No off-street parking shall be required for any ADU or 
JADU. The required parking for the primary residential dwelling unit(s) must comply with the 
underlying zoning district’s current standards, except when an existing garage, carport, or 
covered parking structure is converted to an ADU or JADU or demolished in conjunction 
with construction of an ADU. When this occurs, no replacement off-street parking is 
required for the primary residential dwelling unit. 
(2) Voluntary Parking. If no parking space is required, a maximum of one off-street 
parking space per ADU or JADU may be voluntarily provided Off street parking for an ADU or 
JADU may be provided voluntarily. Voluntarily provided parking associated with ADU or 
JADU development must be located entirely on the same lot, and may be provided in a 
garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, the following provisions 
may be applied to create voluntary parking for an ADU or JADU. 
i. 
When a garage or carport is converted to an ADU or JADU, or demolished 
in conjunction with construction of an ADU, the existing driveway and 
curb cut are not required to be removed, and may be maintained as 
parking area.

--- page 316 ---
ii. A maximum of up to two voluntarily provided parking stalls may be 
provided for each ADU or JADU. 
iii. The maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet 
to accommodate additional off-street parking.  
iv. Uncovered parking for an ADU or JADU may be located in the required 
front, side, and rear yard setback areas. If a covered parking structure is 
proposed to provide voluntary parking below a second-story ADU, the 
parking structure may be located within the footprint of the proposed 
ADU, provided that it is outside of the front yard setback of the 
underlying zoning district. When a parking structure is proposed within a 
required side or rear setback of the underlying zoning district, the plate 
height of the parking structure shall not exceed 9 feet in height.  
(5)  
(k)(g) Architectural Standards. New Nonexempt ADUs and conversions of an existing legally 
permitted structure shall be designed to comply with the following standards, as applicable: 
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary 
dwelling unit shall: 
i. 
Be of the same architectural style as the primary dwelling unit; 
ii. Be constructed of similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of 
colors as the primary dwelling unit; 
iii. Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy; and 
iv.(1) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district 
as applied to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines. 
(i) Application of the daylight plane requirement shall not preclude a 
State Exempted "By Right" ADU as defined in this Chapter. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary 
dwelling unit shall: 
i. 
In instances when an ADU is attached to an accessory structure, 
provide a uniform and integrated design with that accessory structure; 
ii. Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy;

--- page 317 ---
iii.(2) Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five 
feet from the finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with 
an abutting residential lot;. 
(3) When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five 
feet from the nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the 
minimum area required to allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building 
Code;. 
(4) Rooftop decks or terraces above any portion of an ADU are prohibited. 
(5) When a second-story deck or balcony is proposed within a two-story ADU, the 
following shall apply: 
i. 
Second story decks or balconies shall not be larger than 50 square feet 
in size; and 
ii. No portion of a second story deck or balcony shall be located within the 
setbacks of the underlying zoning, regardless of the ADU setbacks; and  
iii. Decks shall only face the interior of the subject property. 
iv. 
 
(i) For an ADU that seeks to have a larger second story deck, an 
application for discretionary review, pursuant to Section 27.19.045, shall be 
submitted. 
v. Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning 
district as applied to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines. 
(l) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an 
amount set forth by resolution of the City Council. 
(m) Utility Service. If an ADU is constructed within existing space, a separate water 
connection, a sewer service connection, or power connection is not required for an ADU. If an ADU 
is not constructed within existing space, the City may require new or separate utility connections. 
(n) Utility Fees. For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a connection 
fee or capacity charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the 
City will require payment of a connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's 
burden.

--- page 318 ---
(o) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include 
application for a separate address assignment. 
(p) Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an 
authorized variance is approved. 
(q) For ADUs proposed within an existing multi-family structure or on a lot with an existing 
multi-family dwelling, the provisions of Government Code Section 65852.2(e)(1) apply. 
27.19.060 Reserved. 
Article II Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit 
27.19.070 PurposeMultifamily ADU Development Standards. 
(a) The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling 
units (JADUs). Applicability. This section applies to all ADUs located on lots with existing or 
proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure(s).  
(b) Number of Units Allowed. 
(1) On a lot with a proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure, up two new Detached 
ADUs may be allowed.  
(2) On a lot with an existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure, the following ADUs may 
be permitted in combination: 
i. 
 Up to eight New Construction Detached ADUs may be allowed, 
provided that the number of ADUs shall not exceed the number of 
existing primary residential dwelling units on the lot.  
ii. Conversion ADUs created by converting non-living space within an 
existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure. The number of non-living space 
Conversion ADUs may be at least one, and not more than 25 percent of 
the number of existing primary residential dwelling units.  
(c) Maximum Unit Size.  
(1) An ADU shall not have a larger floor area than the smallest primary residential 
dwelling unit on a lot. When the smallest primary residential dwelling unit is less than 800 
square feet, then a State Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the existing space of a Multifamily Dwelling Structure is 
not subject to size requirements.

--- page 319 ---
(3) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area size maximums for both Attached and 
Detached ADUs are governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying 
zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square 
feet of ADU Living Area is exempt from total FAR for the lot. The exemption for ADU floor 
area up to 800 square feet shall be applied individually to each new Detached ADU 
proposed on a lot with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure.  
(4) In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully 
utilized, only New Construction State Exempt ADUs of up to 800 square feet are allowed. 
(d) Height - Maximum building height for a new Detached Multifamily ADU is 18 feet to top 
plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(e) Setbacks.  
(1) For new Detached Multifamily ADUs, a minimum setback of four feet from side 
and rear property lines is required.  
(2) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying 
zone district, shall be required for all new Multifamily ADUs. No front setback is required for 
a New Construction Detached State Exempt ADU. 
(f) Parking. The single-family ADU development parking standards of this Chapter shall 
apply to Multifamily ADUs. 
(g) Architectural standards. The single-family ADU development architectural standards of 
this Chapter shall apply to Nonexempt ADUs on lots with an existing or proposed Multifamily 
Dwelling Structure.  
(h) Separation between structures. New Detached Multifamily ADUs shall be separated 
from the primary structure by a minimum of four feet, open to the sky. Where multiple new 
Detached ADUs are proposed, the ADUs may be attached to each other, but must be detached 
from the primary structure.  
 
27.19.080 Reserved. 
27.19.090 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental. 
(a) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence. 
(b) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.

--- page 320 ---
27.19.100 Ministerial Permit Required. 
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance 
with the provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, 
a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. 
27.19.110080 JADU Development Standards. 
(a) Applicability. The development standards in this section shall apply to all JADUs. 
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the 
following development standards: 
(a)(b) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow 
single-family residential use, or for which a Ssingle-fFamily residence Dwelling Structure exists or 
is proposed to be built. The residential lot shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other 
multi-family developmentMulti-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(b)(c) Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling UnitsJADUs permitted. The number 
of JADUs is limited to one per residential lot with a Ssingle-Ffamily residenceResidential Dwelling 
Structure. Lots with mMulti-Ffamily housing Dwelling Structures or more than one detached single-
family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs. 
(c)(d) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning 
regulations, the JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall 
be subject to the same requirements of the underlying zoning district. 
(d)(e) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 650 500 square feet, 
including attic and basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning 
district. 
(e)(f) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of 
the proposed or legally existing single-family dwelling unitSingle-Family Dwelling Structure, 
including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, including detached garages or 
carports, are not permitted to be converted into a JADUs. 
(f)(g) Unit Access. A JADU must include: 
(1) A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the single-family dwelling, 
which shall be provided to serve the JADU only; and 
(2) When a JADU shares sanitation facilities or utility controls (such as a thermostat 
for heating and cooling), Aan interior entry access between the JADU and the Ssingle-
fFamily dwellingDwelling Structure is required. This interior entry access may be a door 
equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior door for

--- page 321 ---
sound attenuation. For a JADU with its own sanitation facilities and utility controls, interior 
access is not required but may be provided voluntarily.  
(g)(h) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that 
includes the following components: 
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and 
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size 
in relation to the size of the JADU. 
(h)(i) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may 
share sanitation facilities with the primary dwelling unit. 
(i)(j) Building and Fire Requirements. 
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the 
main dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the 
associated improvements meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by 
Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall 
have an adjoining door connected to the main living area for fire separation. A smoke alarm 
shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke alarm in the main 
residence. 
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector. 
(j)(k) Utility Service. A sSeparate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, 
and power connection as water, sewer, and power service is are not required for a JADU. 
(k)(l) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU. 
(m) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include 
application for a separate address assignment. 
(l)(n) Owner Occupancy. If the JADU unit has shared sanitation facilities with the existing 
structure, owner-occupancy shall be required. The owner may reside in either the remaining 
portion of the structure or the newly created JADU. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the 
JADU has its own sanitation facilities, or if the owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or 
housing organization.

--- page 322 ---
27.19.120090 Recordation ofJADU Deed Restriction. 
(a) Prior to building permit issuance for a JADU, aA deed restriction shall be recorded to run 
with the land and submitted to the City prior to building permit issuance whichto  indicates the 
following: 
(1) The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the JADU. 
(2) If the JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 
consecutive calendar days. 
(3)(1) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited. 
(4)(2) The approved size and attributes of the JADU. 
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.

--- page 323 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - BUSINESS, CONSUMER SERVICES AND HOUSING AGENCY 
GAVIN NEWSOM, Governor 
 
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
DIVISION OF HOUSING POLICY DEVELOPMENT 
651 Bannon Street, Suite 400 
Sacramento, CA  95811 
(916) 263-2911 / FAX (916) 263-7453 
www.hcd.ca.gov 
 
 
October 18, 2024 
 
 
 
Zachary Dahl, Director of Community Development 
Department of Community Development 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Zachary Dahl: 
 
RE: Review of San Mateo’s Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ordinance under State 
ADU Law (Gov. Code, §§ 66310 - 66342) 
 
Please Note: As of March 25, 2024, with the Chaptering of Senate Bill (SB) 477 
(Chapter 7, Statutes of 2024), the sections of Government Code relevant to State ADU 
and junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU) Law have been re-numbered (Enclosure 1). 
 
Thank you for submitting the City of San Mateo (City) accessory dwelling unit (ADU) 
Ordinance No. 2022-02 (Ordinance), adopted March 21, 2022, to the California 
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). HCD has reviewed the 
Ordinance and submits these written findings pursuant to Government Code section 
66326, subdivision (a). HCD finds that the Ordinance does not comply with State ADU 
and junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU) Laws in the manner noted below. Pursuant to 
Government Code section 66326, subdivision (b)(1), the City has up to 30 days to 
respond to these findings. Accordingly, the City must provide a written response to 
these findings no later than November 17, 2024. 
 
The Ordinance addresses many statutory requirements; however, HCD finds that the 
Ordinance does not comply with State ADU Law in the following respects: 
 
1. Statutory Numbering - The Ordinance contains several references to code 
sections that were deleted by SB 477, effective March 25, 2024. These include 
Government Code sections 65852.2, 65852.22 and 65852.26. The contents of 
these sections were relocated to Government Code, Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 
13 (sections 66310-66342, see Enclosure). The City must amend the Ordinance 
to refer to the correct code sections.  
 
2. Section 1(c) – Front Setbacks – The Ordinance states, “In order to allow vehicles 
exiting lots to see passing pedestrians and vehicles, ADUs are not permitted within 
a required front yard setback.” However, local agencies may not impose: “Any 
requirement for a zoning clearance… based upon …front setbacks …that does not

--- page 324 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 2 
 
 
permit at least an 800 square foot accessory dwelling unit with four-foot side and 
rear yard setbacks…”1 An ADU of 800 square feet with four-foot side and rear yard 
setbacks cannot be precluded from development for being proposed within the 
primary residence’s front setback. Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to 
remove these design restrictions.  
 
3. Section 27.04.165 (a) – ADU Definition – The Ordinance defines “Accessory 
dwelling unit” as: “an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides 
complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the 
primary single-family residential dwelling unit, and includes permanent provisions 
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same parcel as 
the primary residential dwelling unit.” However, California Government Code 
defines an ADU as: “An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit that 
provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons and is 
located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary residence. It shall include 
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the 
same parcel as the single-family or multifamily dwelling is or will be situated.” 
ADUs may exist on lots with both single- and multi-family dwellings.2 Therefore, 
the City must amend the Ordinance to define “ADU” to allow for such 
developments on lots with multi-family dwellings. 
 
4. Section 27.04.165 (d) – Multi-family Dwellings – The Ordinance defines “multiple 
family dwelling” as: “A building or portion thereof, designed or altered for 
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.” 
Additionally, the Ordinance defines “two-family dwelling” as: “A building(s) 
designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or detached dwelling units for 
occupancy by two families living independently of each other. However, for the 
purposes of State ADU Law, developments need only contain two attached 
dwelling units on the same lot to qualify as “multi-family dwellings.” Therefore, the 
City must amend its definition of “multiple family dwelling” to align with that of HCD. 
 
5. Section 27.19.030 (a) – Separate Conveyance – The Ordinance states that, “An 
ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.” However, 
Government Code section 66341 creates a narrow exception to allow separate 
conveyance of an ADU to a qualified buyer if the property was built or developed 
by a qualified nonprofit corporation, among other things. Therefore, the City must 
amend the Ordinance to note these exceptions.  
 
6. Section 27.19.050 (c) – ADUs Except from Standards – The Ordinance states, “An 
attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet 
in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on a lot 
regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing 
primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane, open space, or 
minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. However, 
 
1 Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(3). 
2 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a).

--- page 325 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 3 
 
 
only ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2), 
are subject to a size maximum of 800 square feet. Therefore, the City must amend 
the Ordinance to clarify these requirements for by-right ADUs.  
 
7. Section 27.19.050 (d); (d)(2) - Maximum Unit Size – The Ordinance states, “Floor 
area size maximums for both attached and detached ADU development in excess 
of 800 square feet are governed by the floor area maximum established by the 
underlying zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. 
In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, 
only the state exempted “by-right” ADU of up to 800 square feet is permitted.” 
While the City is within its rights to dictate ADU size based on available floor area 
allowance based on underlying zoning districts, the City must also allow, at 
minimum, a maximum size of 850 square feet for ADUs with one bedroom or 
fewer, and 1,000 square feet for ADUs with two or more bedrooms. Further, a 
square footage maximum of 800 square feet may only apply to ADUs built 
pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2). Therefore, the 
City should amend the Ordinance to clarify correct maximum unit sizes for ADUs 
per State ADU Law.  
 
8. Section 27.19.050 (e)(1); (e)(2) - Maximum ADU Height – The Ordinance allows 
maximum heights of 24 and 16 feet to the top plateline and 32 and 24 feet to roof 
peak as measured from existing grade for attached and detached ADUs, 
respectively. However, building height, as defined in Section 202 of the California 
Building Code, must be measured as the vertical distance from grade plane to the 
average height of the highest roof surface. Additionally, ADUs converted from 
accessory structures may not be subject to height requirements.3 Therefore, the 
City must amend its definition of “building height” to align with that of the CBC. 
 
9. Section 27.19.050 (f)(1); (f)(3)- Setbacks and Unpermitted Structures – The 
Ordinance states, “No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted 
garage or accessory structure that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in 
the same location and to the same dimensions as the existing structure.” However, 
jurisdictions shall also not require setbacks for accessory structures that are 
converted to a portion of an existing ADU.4 Additionally, the permit status of an 
existing structure may not be a reason to preclude the development of an ADU 
unless the unpermitted structure presents a threat to public health and safety or is 
affected by the construction of the ADU.5 Finally, ADUs of less than 800 square 
feet in size may not be subject to any front setback requirements if no other lot 
location can accommodate the ADU.6 Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to reflect these conditions of State ADU Law. 
 
 
3 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a)(1)(A). 
4 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (d)(7). 
5 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (b). 
6 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (b)(3).

--- page 326 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 4 
 
 
10. Section 27.19.050 (i) - Parking Exemptions – The Ordinance enumerates five 
conditions where no additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU. 
However, jurisdictions must also waive all parking standards, not just additional off-
street parking standards, in these instances. Additionally, jurisdictions shall not 
impose parking standards when a permit application for an accessory dwelling unit 
is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family dwelling or a 
new multifamily dwelling on the same lot.7 Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to include the sixth parking exemption.  
 
11. Section 27.19.050 (j) - Architectural Standards – The Ordinance enumerates 
several architectural and design standards for ADUs. However, these standards 
may not preclude the development of ADUs pursuant to Government Code section 
66323, subdivision (a). Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to note 
these conditions.  
 
12. Section 27.19.050 (j)(1)(A); (j)(1)(B); (j)(1)(C); (j)(2)(A); (j)(2)(B) – Design 
Standards - The Ordinance enumerates several architectural and design standards 
for ADUs. However, all standards on accessory dwelling units must be objective 
standards that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and 
are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or 
criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent 
and the public official prior to submittal.8 Standards such as requiring “similar 
exterior materials” and windows that “maximize privacy” are subjective. Therefore, 
the City must amend the Ordinance to only include objective standards for ADU 
design. 
 
13. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states, 
“Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set forth by 
resolution of the City Council.” Regardless of local decisions on fee amounts, local 
agencies, special districts, or water corporations shall not impose any impact fee 
upon the development of ADUs 750 square feet in size or less submittal.9 Any 
impact fees charged for an accessory dwelling unit of 750 square feet or more 
shall be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary 
dwelling unit.10 Additionally, ADUs shall not be considered by a local agency, 
special district, or water corporation to be a new residential use for purposes of 
calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and 
sewer service, unless the accessory dwelling unit was constructed with a new 
single-family dwelling.11 Therefore, the City must update the Ordinance to provide 
greater clarity regarding impact fee application for ADUs. 
 
 
7 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a)(6). 
8 Gov. Code, §§ 66313, subd. (b); 66313 (h). 
9 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (c). 
10 Ibid. 
11 Gov. Code, § 66324, subdivision (b).

--- page 327 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 5 
 
 
14. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states that, “All 
other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized variance is 
approved.” Despite the jurisdiction’s ability to impose standards on ADUs through 
underlying zoning districts, it should be noted that all approvals for zoning 
requirements for ADUs must be ministerial in nature.12 Therefore, the City should 
amend the Ordinance to bolster clarity regarding the ADU approval process.  
 
15. Section 27.19.110 (d) – JADU Size – The Ordinance states that, “The floor area of 
a JADU shall not exceed 650 square feet. However, by definition, JADUs may not 
exceed 500 square feet in size.13 Therefore, the City must amend its ordinance to 
allow a maximum size of 500 sq feet for JADUs.   
 
16. Section 27.19.110 (f)(2) – Unit Access – The Ordinance requires an interior entry 
access between a JADU and the single-family dwelling. While this is permissible in 
some situations, jurisdictions can only require interior entry access between a 
JADU and corresponding single-family dwelling when said JADU does not include 
a separate bathroom.14 Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to note 
these conditions. 
 
17. Section 27.19.120 (a)(1) – JADU Owner Occupancy – The Ordinance requires 
recordation of a deed restriction states, “The property owner must occupy either 
the single-family residence or the JADU.” However, JADU owner-occupancy shall 
not be required if the owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing 
organization.15 Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to note this owner-
occupancy exception.  
 
Please note that the City has two options in response to this letter.16 The City can either 
amend the Ordinance to comply with State ADU Law17 or adopt the Ordinance without 
changes and include findings in its resolution adopting the Ordinance that explain the 
reasons the City believes that the Ordinance complies with State ADU Law despite 
HCD’s findings.18 If the City fails to take either course of action and bring the Ordinance 
into compliance with State ADU Law, HCD must notify the City and may notify the 
California Office of the Attorney General that the City is in violation of State ADU Law.19  
 
 
 
12 Gov. Code, § 66317, subdivision (a). 
13 Gov. Code, § 66313, subdivision (d). 
14 Gov. Code, § 66333, subdivision (e)(2). 
15 Gov. Code, § 66333, subdivision (b). 
16 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (c)(1). 
17 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b)(2)(A). 
18 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b)(2)(B). 
19 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (c)(1).

--- page 328 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 6 
 
 
  
HCD appreciates the City’s efforts in the preparation and adoption of the Ordinance and 
welcomes the opportunity to assist the City in fully complying with State ADU Law. 
Please feel free to contact Rep Name at Nicholas.Green@hcd.ca.gov if you have any 
questions.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jamie Candelaria 
Senior Housing Accountability Manager 
Housing Policy Development Division 
 
Enclosure

--- page 329 ---
State ADU/JADU Law Statutory Conversion Table 
New Government Code Sections 
Previous Government Code Sections 
Article 1. General Provisions 
66310 
65852.150 (a) 
66311 
65852.150 (b) 
66312 
65852.150 (c) 
66313 
General Definition Section 
65852.2 (j) 
65852.22 (j) 
Article 2. Accessory Dwelling Unit Approvals 
66314 
65852.2(a)(1)(A), (D)(i)-(xii), (a)(4)-(5) 
66315 
65852.2 (a)(8) 
66316 
65852.2 (a)(6) 
66317 
65852.2 (a)(3), (a)(7) 
66318 
65852.2 (a)(9), 65852.2 (a)(2) 
66319 
65852.2 (a)(10) 
66320 
65852.2 (b) 
66321 
65852.2 (c) 
66322 
65852.2 (d) 
66323 
65852.2 (e) 
66324 
65852.2 (f) 
66325 
65852.2 (g) 
66326 
65852.2 (h) 
66327 
65852.2 (i) 
66328 
65852.2 (k) 
66329 
65852.2 (l) 
66330 
65852.2 (m) 
66331 
65852.2 (n) 
66332 
65852.23. 
Article 3. Junior Accessory Dwelling Units 
66333 
65852.22 (a) 
66334 
65852.22 (b) 
66335 
65852.22 (c) 
66336 
65852.22 (d) 
66337 
65852.22 (e) 
66338 
65852.22 (f)-(g) 
66339 
65852.22 (h) 
Article 4. Accessory Dwelling Unit Sales 
66340 
65852.26 (b) 
66341 
65852.26 (a) 
66342 
65852.2 (a)(10)

--- page 330 ---
November 15, 2024 
Jamie Candelaria, Senior Housing Accountability Manager  
Department of Housing and Community Development 
Division of Housing Policy Development  
651 Bannon St, Suite 400 
Sacramento, CA 95811 
 
RE:  
Response to HCD Review of San Mateo’s Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ordinance 
 
Dear Jamie Candelaria, 
 
The City has received and reviewed HCD’s comments and findings in its October 18, 2024 letter on the 
City of San Mateo’s ADU Ordinance (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19) (ADU Ordinance), and a 
response to each finding is provided below.  The City is committed to full compliance with State ADU laws 
and establishing local regulations and processes that support and encourage ADU production. On 
November 7, 2024, City staff met with HCD staff to review the letter and received clarification on several 
of the comments.  The responses below have incorporated those clarifications. 
 
1. Statutory Numbering - The Ordinance contains several references to code sections that were 
deleted by SB 477, effective March 25, 2024. These include Government Code sections 65852.2, 
65852.22 and 65852.26. The contents of these sections were relocated to Government Code, Title 
7, Division 1, Chapter 13 (sections 66310-66342, see Enclosure). The City must amend the 
Ordinance to refer to the correct code sections.  
  
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
  
2. Section 1(c) – Front Setbacks – The Ordinance states, “In order to allow vehicles exiting lots to see 
passing pedestrians and vehicles, ADUs are not permitted within a required front yard setback.” 
However, local agencies may not impose: “Any requirement for a zoning clearance… based upon 
…front setbacks …that does not permit at least an 800 square foot accessory dwelling unit with 
four-foot side and rear yard setbacks…” An ADU of 800 square feet with four-foot side and rear 
yard setbacks cannot be precluded from development for being proposed within the primary 
residence’s front setback. Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to remove these design 
restrictions.  
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly, while 
also maintaining visibility triangles. Due to potential health and safety issues that could arise where 
driveways in front yards intersect with sidewalks and when a corner lot is adjacent to a street 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 331 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 2 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
intersection, the City is interested in establishing reasonable visibility triangles in front yard spaces 
adjacent to driveways and street intersections to maintain appropriate visibility between vehicles, 
bicycles, and pedestrians.  Requirements for visibility triangles would be objective standards, and the 
City will share the proposed amendment language with HCD prior to scheduling public hearings for 
adoption. 
 
3. Section 27.04.165 (a) – ADU Definition – The Ordinance defines “Accessory dwelling unit” as: “an 
attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete independent living 
facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary single-family residential dwelling 
unit, and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation 
on the same parcel as the primary residential dwelling unit.” However, California Government 
Code defines an ADU as: “An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit that provides 
complete independent living facilities for one or more persons and is located on a lot with a 
proposed or existing primary residence. It shall include permanent provisions for living, sleeping, 
eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as the single-family or multifamily dwelling is 
or will be situated.” ADUs may exist on lots with both single- and multi-family dwellings. 
Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to define “ADU” to allow for such developments on 
lots with multi-family dwellings. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
4. Section 27.04.165 (d) – Multi-family Dwellings – The Ordinance defines “multiple family dwelling” 
as: “A building or portion thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families 
living independently of each other.” Additionally, the Ordinance defines “two-family dwelling” as: 
“A building(s) designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or detached dwelling units for 
occupancy by two families living independently of each other. However, for the purposes of State 
ADU Law, developments need only contain two attached dwelling units on the same lot to qualify 
as “multi-family dwellings.” Therefore, the City must amend its definition of “multiple family 
dwelling” to align with that of HCD. 
 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
5. Section 27.19.030 (a) – Separate Conveyance – The Ordinance states that, “An ADU shall not be 
sold separately from the primary residence.” However, Government Code section 66341 creates a 
narrow exception to allow separate conveyance of an ADU to a qualified buyer if the property was 
built or developed by a qualified nonprofit corporation, among other things. Therefore, the City 
must amend the Ordinance to note these exceptions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
6. Section 27.19.050 (c) – ADUs Except from Standards – The Ordinance states, “An attached or 
detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-
foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on a lot regardless of any size limitation based on 
the size of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane,

--- page 332 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 3 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. However, 
only ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2), are subject to a 
size maximum of 800 square feet. Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to clarify these 
requirements for by-right ADUs. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
7. Section 27.19.050 (d); (d)(2) - Maximum Unit Size – The Ordinance states, “Floor area size 
maximums for both attached and detached ADU development in excess of 800 square feet are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining 
floor area allowance available on the lot. In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a 
lot has been fully utilized, only the state exempted “by-right” ADU of up to 800 square feet is 
permitted.” While the City is within its rights to dictate ADU size based on available floor area 
allowance based on underlying zoning districts, the City must also allow, at minimum, a maximum 
size of 850 square feet for ADUs with one bedroom or fewer, and 1,000 square feet for ADUs with 
two or more bedrooms. Further, a square footage maximum of 800 square feet may only apply to 
ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2). Therefore, the City 
should amend the Ordinance to clarify correct maximum unit sizes for ADUs per State ADU Law. 
 
Response: The City’s ADU Ordinance does not set a maximum size limit for ADUs, so ADUs of at least 
850 sq ft or 1,000 sq ft, depending on number of bedrooms, are allowed. State exempted ADUs 
(including conversions of existing structures, or a new construction ADU of up to 800 sq.ft. built 
pursuant to Gov. Code 66323, subdivision (a)(2)) are always allowed. For ADUs over 800 sq ft, their 
maximum size is determined based on the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of a site’s underlying zoning, with the 
first 800 sq ft of ADU floor area exempt from FAR calculations.  However, the City does acknowledge 
this request to clarify and will update the ADU Ordinance to ensure that these maximum unit sizes are 
clearly communicated. 
 
8. Section 27.19.050 (e)(1); (e)(2) - Maximum ADU Height – The Ordinance allows maximum heights 
of 24 and 16 feet to the top plateline and 32 and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing 
grade for attached and detached ADUs, respectively. However, building height, as defined in 
Section 202 of the California Building Code, must be measured as the vertical distance from grade 
plane to the average height of the highest roof surface. Additionally, ADUs converted from 
accessory structures may not be subject to height requirements. Therefore, the City must amend 
its definition of “building height” to align with that of the CBC. 
 
Response: The height limits contained in the City’s ADU Ordinance allow for a maximum height of 24 
feet for detached ADUs and 32 feet for attached ADUs, which are more permissive than the minimum 
height limits required per State Law. The associated plate height limits of 16 feet and 24 feet, 
respectively, were previously reviewed with HCD staff and determined to not conflict with State Law 
since the overall height limits were significantly more permissive than what State Law required. Staff 
has also conferred with the City’s Building Official to confirm that these limits would not conflict with 
the CBC height definition. Overall, the City’s strong preference is to continue to utilize the definition of 
height as outlined in the Zoning Ordinance, rather than the CBC definition of height. The City

--- page 333 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 4 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
acknowledges that existing structures converted to ADUs within an existing building envelope are not 
subject to height restrictions and will update the ordinance accordingly to clarify this point.  
 
Also, since the Citywide practice for setting height limits includes both plate height limits and 
maximum height limits, the City is interested in maintaining these two height limits for ADUs for 
consistency and public awareness, but with limits that are more permissive than State Law.  And, as 
part of the City’s ADU Ordinance update, staff will be evaluating an increased maximum plate height 
limit for detached ADUs to support the ability to construct a second story ADU over a garage.  
 
9. Section 27.19.050 (f)(1); (f)(3)- Setbacks and Unpermitted Structures – The Ordinance states, “No 
setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure that is 
converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as the 
existing structure.” However, jurisdictions shall also not require setbacks for accessory structures 
that are converted to a portion of an existing ADU. Additionally, the permit status of an existing 
structure may not be a reason to preclude the development of an ADU unless the unpermitted 
structure presents a threat to public health and safety or is affected by the construction of the 
ADU. Finally, ADUs of less than 800 square feet in size may not be subject to any front setback 
requirements if no other lot location can accommodate the ADU. Therefore, the City must amend 
the Ordinance to reflect these conditions of State ADU Law. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
10. Section 27.19.050 (i) - Parking Exemptions – The Ordinance enumerates five conditions where no 
additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU. However, jurisdictions must also waive 
all parking standards, not just additional off- street parking standards, in these instances. 
Additionally, jurisdictions shall not impose parking standards when a permit application for an 
accessory dwelling unit is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family 
dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot. Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to include the sixth parking exemption. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly to add 
the parking exemption added under Gov Code Section 66323(a)(6). 
 
 
11. Section 27.19.050 (j) - Architectural Standards – The Ordinance enumerates several architectural 
and design standards for ADUs. However, these standards may not preclude the development of 
ADUs pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a). Therefore, the City must 
amend the Ordinance to note these conditions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
12. Section 27.19.050 (j)(1)(A); (j)(1)(B); (j)(1)(C); (j)(2)(A); (j)(2)(B) – Design Standards - The Ordinance 
enumerates several architectural and design standards for ADUs. However, all standards on 
accessory dwelling units must be objective standards that involve no personal or subjective 
judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform

--- page 334 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 5 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent 
and the public official prior to submittal. Standards such as requiring “similar exterior materials” 
and windows that “maximize privacy” are subjective. Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to only include objective standards for ADU design. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
13. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states, “Development impact 
fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set forth by resolution of the City Council.” 
Regardless of local decisions on fee amounts, local agencies, special districts, or water corporations 
shall not impose any impact fee upon the development of ADUs 750 square feet in size or less 
submittal. Any impact fees charged for an accessory dwelling unit of 750 square feet or more shall 
be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary dwelling unit. 
Additionally, ADUs shall not be considered by a local agency, special district, or water corporation 
to be a new residential use for purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for 
utilities, including water and sewer service, unless the accessory dwelling unit was constructed 
with a new single-family dwelling. Therefore, the City must update the Ordinance to provide 
greater clarity regarding impact fee application for ADUs. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
14. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states that, “All other zoning 
requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized variance is approved.” Despite the 
jurisdiction’s ability to impose standards on ADUs through underlying zoning districts, it should be 
noted that all approvals for zoning requirements for ADUs must be ministerial in nature. 
Therefore, the City should amend the Ordinance to bolster clarity regarding the ADU approval 
process. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
15. Section 27.19.110 (d) – JADU Size – The Ordinance states that, “The floor area of a JADU shall not 
exceed 650 square feet. However, by definition, JADUs may not exceed 500 square feet in size.  
Therefore, the City must amend its ordinance to allow a maximum size of 500 sq feet for JADUs. 
 
Response: City staff consulted with HCD in 2021/2022 to seek guidance on the JADU size limit and 
received direction that a local jurisdiction could set a more permissive maximum size provided that it 
was aligned with the overall function and use intended for JADUs. Based on this guidance, the City 
established a maximum size for JADUs of 650 sq ft with the intention of encouraging more JADU 
construction and allowing for higher quality units within existing single-family dwellings.  Since the 
ADU Ordinance was adopted in 2022, the City has issued permits for 36 JADUs, including six (6) that 
are larger than 500 sq ft. Because the City has permitted JADUs that exceed 500 sq ft in size and 
because there is local support for maintaining the current size limit, the City  would like to preserve the 
JADU size limit of up to 650 sq ft in the ADU Ordinance.

--- page 335 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 6 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
16. Section 27.19.110 (f)(2) – Unit Access – The Ordinance requires an interior entry access between a 
JADU and the single-family dwelling. While this is permissible in some situations, jurisdictions can 
only require interior entry access between a JADU and corresponding single-family dwelling when 
said JADU does not include a separate bathroom. Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance 
to note these conditions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding, but has identified several circumstances beyond just a 
shared bathroom where an interior access between the JADU and main dwelling is necessary to ensure 
that substandard living conditions in a JADU are not created. Based on CBC requirements, a JADU is 
allowed to share HVAC and other utilities with the main dwelling.  Thus, an interior entry is important 
to allow for a JADU tenant to access HVAC/thermostat controls, the electrical subpanel in the event 
that a breaker is blown, and/or other shared utilities if they are located in the single-family dwelling. 
Thus, the City is interested in continuing to require an interior entry access for JADUs when such access 
is needed. The City  will update the ADU Ordinance to not require an interior entry when these 
circumstances are not present.  Also, since JADU construction does not trigger fire-rated separation 
requirements for interior access doors, including an interior entry does not result in a significant added 
cost in the same way that an interior entry for an attached ADU does. 
 
 
17. Section 27.19.120 (a)(1) – JADU Owner Occupancy – The Ordinance requires recordation of a deed 
restriction and states, “The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the 
JADU.” However, JADU owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is another 
governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. Therefore, the City must amend its 
Ordinance to note this owner- occupancy exception. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
We are happy to further discuss any of our responses to ensure mutual understanding about State Law 
requirements for the City’s ADU Ordinance, if necessary.  The City plans to complete these ADU Ordinance 
amendments, along with other Housing Element Code amendments, in 2025.  As part of the update 
process, we will share the draft ADU Ordinance amendments with HCD prior to scheduling public 
hearings. 
 
Please contact me at (650) 522-7207 or zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org if you have any questions or would like 
to further discuss. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Zachary Dahl, AICP 
Community Development Director

--- page 336 ---
1
From:
James Lloyd 
Sent:
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 9:40 AM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
City Attorney's Office; Clerk; City Mgr; Community Development Distribution
Subject:
public comment re Item 2, ADU ordinance, for tonight's Planning Commission meeting
Attachments:
San Mateo - ADU Ordinance - 9 Dec 2025 - PC.pdf
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter as a public comment concerning 
Item 2 on the agenda for the December 9, 2025 Planning Commission meeting, a study session for an 
update to the City’s regulations for the development of accessory dwelling units (“ADUs”) and junior 
accessory dwelling units (“JADUs”). 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
James M. Lloyd 
Director of Planning and Investigations 
California Housing Defense Fund 
 
CalHDF is grant & donation funded  
Donate today - https://calhdf.org/donate/

--- page 337 ---
Dec 9, 2025
 
City of San Mateo​
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
By Email: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org; clerk@cityofsanmateo.org; 
citymanager@cityofsanmateo.org; communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
Re: Proposed Amendments to the City’s ADU Regulations 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter as a public comment 
concerning Item 2 on the agenda for the December 9, 2025 Planning Commission meeting, a 
study session for an update to the City’s regulations for the development of accessory 
dwelling units (“ADUs”) and junior accessory dwelling units (“JADUs”).  
 
CalHDF applauds the City for updating its ADU regulations to keep pace with changes in 
state law. CalHDF writes to flag specific legal issues with the ordinance, which the City 
should address before passing the ordinance. 
 
Background 
 
The law gives local governments authority to enact zoning ordinances that implement a 
variety of development standards on ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 66314.) The standards in these local 
ordinances are limited by state law so as not to overly restrict ADU development. (See id.) 
Separately from local ADU ordinances, Government Code section 66323 establishes a 
narrower set of ADU types that local governments have a ministerial duty to approve. 
“Notwithstanding Sections 66314 to 66322 ... a local agency shall ministerially approve” these 
types of ADUs. (Id. at subd. (a).) This means that ADUs that satisfy the minimal requirements 
of section 66323 must be approved regardless of any contrary provisions of the local ADU 
ordinance. (Ibid.) Local governments may not impose their own standards on such ADUs. 
(Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (b) [“A local agency shall not impose any objective development or 
design standard that is not authorized by this section upon any accessory dwelling unit that 
meets the requirements of any of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (a).”].) 
 
2201 Broadway, PH1, Oakland, CA 94612 
hi@calhdf.org

--- page 338 ---
In addition, ADUs that qualify for the protections of Government Code section  66323, like 
other ADUs, must be processed by local governments within 60 days of a complete permit 
application submittal. (Gov. Code, § 66317, subd. (a).) 
 
State law also prohibits creating regulations on ADU development not explicitly allowed by 
state law. Government Code Section 66315 states, “No additional standards, other than those 
provided in Section 66314, shall be used or imposed, including an owner-occupant 
requirement, except that a local agency may require that the property may be used for 
rentals of terms 30 days or longer.” 
 
Impermissible Size Limits on Exemption ADUs on Multifamily Parcels 
 
Code section 27.19.070(c) generally restricts detached ADUs on multifamily parcels to 800 
square feet in size. The code does this by only allowing floor area ratio waivers for ADUs up 
to 800 square feet in size and also only allowing ADUs to be as large as the smallest existing 
unit on the property, unless the smallest unit is less than 800 square feet, in which case the 
ADU may be 800 square feet in size. 
 
However, the City should be aware that such size restrictions are not permitted for new 
construction, detached ADUs on multifamily parcels. Government Code section 66323 
subdivision (a)(4) allows up to eight detached ADUs on multifamily parcels without size 
restrictions. Size restrictions are plainly forbidden by Government Code, section 66323, 
subdivision (b), which explicitly exempts statewide exemption ADUs from all local standards: 
“(b) A local agency shall not impose any objective development or design standard that is not 
authorized by this section upon any accessory dwelling unit that meets the requirements of 
any of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (a).” Because Government Code section 
66323 subdivision (a)(4) does not contain a size limit for new construction, detached ADUs 
on multifamily parcels, the City may not unilaterally impose one. 
 
HCD reaffirms this requirement of state law on page 20 of the January 2025 HCD ADU 
Handbook (emphasis added): 
 
A local agency may not impose development or design standards, including both 
local standards and standards found in State ADU Law, on 66323 Units that are not 
specifically listed in Government Code section 66323. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subds. (a), 
(b).) This includes, but is not limited to, parking, height, setbacks, or other zoning 
provisions (e.g., lot size, open space, floor area ratio, etc.). 
 
The City must exempt ADUs developed pursuant to Government Code section 66323, 
subdivision (a)(4) from all size restrictions. 
 
 
 
 
2 of 4

--- page 339 ---
Parking 
 
Staff is recommending exempting all ADUs from offstreet parking requirements citywide. 
CalHDF strongly supports this recommendation. This will encourage ADU development and 
will help the City meet its RHNA targets. 
 
However, regardless of what the City decides to do in terms of parking requirements, the City 
should be aware that it cannot require parking for ADUs that conform to the requirements of 
Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a), as section 66323, subdivision (b) 
specifically exempts such ADUs from all local requirements. 
 
From page 20 of the January 2025 HCD ADU Handbook (emphasis added): 
 
A local agency may not impose development or design standards, including both 
local standards and standards found in State ADU Law, on 66323 Units that are not 
specifically listed in Government Code section 66323. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subds. (a), 
(b).) This includes, but is not limited to, parking, height, setbacks, or other zoning 
provisions (e.g., lot size, open space, floor area ratio, etc.). 
 
In its update to its ADU regulations, the City must exempt section 66323 ADUs from all 
parking requirements, as is required by state law.  
 
Impermissible Discretionary Process 
 
City Code section 27.19.045 contains a discretionary approval process for ADUs that do not 
meet code requirements. Such a process is forbidden by state law. 
 
Government Code section 66317, subdivision (a) forbids all discretionary review for ADU 
approvals: “A permit application for an accessory dwelling unit or a junior accessory 
dwelling unit shall be considered and approved ministerially without discretionary review 
or a hearing, notwithstanding Section 65901 or 65906 or any local ordinance regulating the 
issuance of variances or special use permits.” 
 
The City must therefore eliminate any discretionary review of ADUs. 
 
Additionally, the findings contained in City Code section 27.19.045 include non-objective 
findings: 
 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or 
welfare. 
(3) If the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane 
standards, there are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would 
 
3 of 4

--- page 340 ---
make compliance with the standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from 
applicable standards are minimized. 
(4) If the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square feet, the 
deck or balcony is located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring 
windows or yard spaces, and screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize 
such views. 
 
Cities may impose only “objective standards” on ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (b)(1); see 
also Gov. Code, § 66315 [stating local jurisdictions may only impose standards authorized by 
section 66314].) “Objective standards” are “standards that involve no personal or subjective 
judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and 
uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant 
or proponent and the public official prior to submittal.” (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (i).) HCD’s 
ADU Handbook (see pages 13, 35, and 45) confirms that, pursuant to state law, only objective 
standards may be imposed on ADUs. 
 
CalHDF supports the City allowing creative ADU proposals that may not conform to the 
standards in the City code. However, the City should establish objective criteria for their 
approval, as is required by state law, and may not require any discretionary approval. 
 
◄► 
 
CalHDF applauds the City for amending its code to keep pace with changes to state law. 
However, the City should make sure that its ADU regulations comply with state law. 
 
CalHDF is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for 
increased access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income 
households. You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdf.org. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Dylan Casey 
CalHDF Executive Director 
 
 
James M. Lloyd 
CalHDF Director of Planning and Investigations 
 
4 of 4

--- page 341 ---
ADU Ordinance 
Updates
December 9, 2025
Liz Gagliardi, Associate Planner
Community Development

--- page 342 ---
Presentation Overview
• Background
• ADU Ordinance Updates
• Changes to Address HCD Comments for State Law Compliance
• Additional Local Changes to Address Community Needs & 
Ordinance Functionality
• Recommendation

--- page 343 ---
What is an ADU?
An Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) is a separate, self-contained home on a
property with an existing primary unit. ADUs must have their own exterior
entrance, bathroom, kitchen, and area for living and sleeping.

--- page 344 ---
What is a JADU?
A Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) is a special type of conversion ADU.
JADUs are only allowed on single-family properties, and cannot be more than 500
square feet in size. JADUs must have their own exterior entrance, kitchen, and
living/sleeping area, but may share a bathroom with the main home. They must be
located within the walls of a single-family home or attached garage, and require a
deed restriction.

--- page 345 ---
ADU Regulatory Context
State Law
Local ADU Ordinance 
•
California State Legislature establishes state-wide ADU laws
•
HCD has authority to enforce State ADU Laws & review local 
ordinances for compliance
•
San Mateo adopted an updated local ADU Ordinance in 2022 
•
Builds upon State Law to regulate ADU development in the City
•
Currently being updated to reflect changes to State Law and 
local needs

--- page 346 ---
Housing Element Policy H1.4 
Support Increased ADU Development.
Implementation Action H1.4 (a)
Amend the City’s ADU Ordinance to align with current State 
law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by HCD
Housing Element Context

--- page 347 ---
Background
• 2016/2019 – California legislature passed initial state-wide ADU laws to 
streamline and promote ADU development
• March 2022 – City of San Mateo adopted an updated local ADU Ordinance 
(SMMC Ch. 27.19)
• October 2024 – HCD provided formal review of the City’s ADU Ordinance
• January 2025 – HCD published updated ADU Handbook
• August 2025 – Planning Commission Study Session on Ordinance Updates
• September 2025 – Virtual Community Webinar on ADU Ordinance Updates

--- page 348 ---
Year
Total Permits Issued
Permits Finaled
2022*
61
57
2023
89
72
2024
66
33
2025*
85
2
TOTAL
301
164
*Data from March 21, 2022 – December 3, 2025
Background – ADU Permitting Data

--- page 349 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
Changes to Address HCD Comments for State Law Compliance
Additional Local Changes to Address Community Needs & 
Ordinance Functionality

--- page 350 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
Changes to Address HCD Comments for State Law Compliance
Additional Local Changes to Address Community Needs & 
Ordinance Functionality

--- page 351 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates 
•
Updates to Definitions
•
Clarification for ADU Separate Sale
•
Fee Clarification
•
Removal of Variance Process
•
Number of ADUs permitted with Single-Family
•
Front Setback Clarification
•
Clarification of Architectural Standards & 
Removal of Subjective Standards
•
JADU Updates
•
Multifamily ADU Updates
HCD Review & State Law Compliance

--- page 352 ---
Updates to Definitions
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU)
The ADU definition has been updated to clarify that ADUs can be 
with single-family or multifamily dwelling structures (previously only 
referred to single-family)
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING STRUCTURE
“A structure with two or more attached primary residential dwelling 
units.” (new definition added to align with State ADU law).

--- page 353 ---
Separate Sale of ADUs
Government Code Section 66341
Requires allowance of ADUs to be sold or conveyed 
separately from the primary residence, only if the ADU 
or primary unit was built or developed by a qualified 
nonprofit, subject to specific criteria.

--- page 354 ---
Fee Clarification
IMPACT FEES & UTILITY FEES
Language added to clarify the following:
• No impact fees for ADUs under 750 square feet
• ADU impact fees must be proportional to the size of the 
primary residential dwelling unit
• A sewer connection fee or capacity charge can only be 
applied to an ADU built with a new primary residential 
dwelling unit.

--- page 355 ---
Variance Process Removed
Removed language stating “all other zoning requirements 
shall be complied with unless an authorized variance is 
approved” from the ADU Ordinance.

--- page 356 ---
Number of ADUs Permitted with Single-Family
Current San Mateo ADU Ordinance allows up to 2 ADUs 
(1 ADU and 1 JADU)
HCD requires up to 3 ADUs be allowed:
• 1 Attached or Conversion ADU (from existing or proposed 
space within a structure)
• 1 Detached New Construction ADU
• 1 JADU

--- page 357 ---
Front Setback Clarification
No front setback is required for State Exempt ADUs
The front yard setback of the underlying zoning is still 
required for Nonexempt ADUs

--- page 358 ---
Architectural Standards
ADU Architectural Standards only apply to Nonexempt ADUs
Removed subjective standards that require ADUs to:
•
Be of the same architectural style as the primary dwelling unit
•
Be constructed of similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of 
colors as the primary dwelling unit
•
Include offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy 
•
Have a uniform and integrated design [when attached to an] 
accessory structure

--- page 359 ---
JADU Updates
JADU interior access – only required when the JADU shares 
a bathroom or thermostat with the main home (no longer 
required for all JADUs)
Maximum JADU Size is 500 square feet – (Reduced from 
650 square feet max per HCD)

--- page 360 ---
JADU Updates
JADU Deed Restrictions – Updated to only include:
• Prohibition on separate sale of JADU
• Size & attributes of JADU
Removed the following from Deed Restriction per HCD:
• Prohibition on short term rental (JADU must be rented 
for 30 days or longer)
• Owner occupancy requirement

--- page 361 ---
Multifamily ADU Updates
• Added ADU Ordinance Section for Multifamily ADU 
Development Standards.
Updates to # of ADUs allowed per SB1211:
Primary Unit Type
Number of ADUs Allowed
Existing Multifamily
Up to 8 new detached (not 
exceeding # of primary units)
+ conversion ADUs (at least 1, up 
to 25% of existing unit count)
Proposed Multifamily
Up to 2 new detached

--- page 362 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
Changes to Address HCD Comments for State Law Compliance
Additional Local Changes to Address Community Needs & 
Ordinance Functionality

--- page 363 ---
Additional Local Standards
Setback Exemption
Maximum ADU Size
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
Parking Exemption for ADUs & Voluntary Parking Standards
Second Story Decks & Balconies
Updates to ADU Discretionary Review (ADUDR)

--- page 364 ---
ADU Discretionary Review
State Law Context 
Ministerial approval is required when an ADU meets State law requirements
A local agency may apply objective standards on ADUs 
Local Context - Two paths for ADU review:
1) Ministerial Review – for ADUs that meet development 
standards of the Ordinance
2) Accessory Dwelling Unit Discretionary Review (ADUDR) – 
alternative option for any ADU that does not meet the 
development standards of the ADU Ordinance

--- page 365 ---
ADUDR Updates
Clarification on ADUDR Applicability
• Exceptions to ADU setbacks, height, or daylight 
plane. No exceptions to increase FAR
Updated ADUDR Findings
Updated ADUDR Appeal Process
• May be appealed to a hearing officer

--- page 366 ---
ADUDR Summary
ADUDR Applications 2022-Present
Total Submittals
19
ADUDR Approved
11
ADUDR Withdrawn
7
Under Review/Incomplete
1
Reasons for seeking ADUDR
• Addition to existing accessory 
structure within 4-foot setbacks
• Two-story ADU exceeding 16-foot 
plate height
• New detached ADU with a second 
story balcony

--- page 367 ---
Maximum ADU Size
State Law Context 
ADUs of at least 800 square feet with 4-foot setbacks are allowed by-right
Must allow ADUs of at least:
•
850 square feet for studio and one-bedroom ADUs
•
1,000 square feet for ADU with more than one bedroom 
Local Context – No specific maximum size. 
• ADU size is regulated by Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Up to 800 square 
feet of ADU area is exempt from total FAR 
• ADU cannot be larger than primary unit

--- page 368 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
State Law Context 
•
Must allow detached ADUs up to 16 feet, or up to 18 feet (plus 
two feet to allow for matching roof pitch to existing dwelling) for 
detached ADUs near transit or on multistory multifamily lots
•
Must allow two-story detached ADUs
•
State law only regulates total height (not plate vs. roof peak)

--- page 369 ---
Local Context
Current Standard – 16 feet to top 
wall plate and 24 feet to roof peak
Updated Standard – 18 feet to top 
wall plate and 24 feet to roof peak
All measured from existing grade
Height Limit for Detached ADUs

--- page 370 ---
R1 Context
Single-Family residential can be up 
to 24 feet to top wall plate and 32 
feet to roof peak
Two-story ADUs would remain 
lower-scale than two-story single-
family residential 
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
2-story 
ADU
2-story 
Single 
Family 
Home

--- page 371 ---
Setback Exemption
Current Standard
4-foot side and rear setbacks required for all ADUs
Updated Standard
Allow ADUs in the rear one-third of a parcel to be built 
within side and rear setbacks if they meet existing 
requirements for Accessory Structures in the rear one-
third of a parcel

--- page 372 ---
Setback Exemption
Lower height and daylight 
plane (9 ft. max)
Limit to one-story
May not occupy over 50% 
of required yard

--- page 373 ---
State Law Context 
• When parking is required for an ADU, may not exceed one space per unit or per 
bedroom, whichever is less.
• No parking required when parking is demolished or converted to an ADU
• No parking required for ADUs:
• Within 1/2 mile walking distance of public transit
• Within an architecturally and historically significant historic district
• That are part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an accessory structure
• When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the occupant of the ADU
• When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the ADU
• When a permit application for an ADU is submitted with a permit application to create a new 
single-family dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot, provided that the ADU or 
the parcel satisfies any other criteria listed above.
Parking Exemptions for ADUs

--- page 374 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
•
Vast majority of residential 
properties in San Mateo 
exempt from ADU parking 
requirements.
•
Red circles show properties 
that are more than a ½ mile 
from a transit stop.

--- page 375 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
Current Standard 
Minimum of one standard-sized off-street parking space for each 
ADU is required. 
• ADU parking can be covered or uncovered, may be in tandem 
configuration. 
• Exemptions to providing off-street parking are also provided 
pursuant to State law
Updated Standard
Eliminate all required off-street parking for ADUs citywide.

--- page 376 ---
Voluntary Parking for ADUs
Updated Standards:
• Up to two voluntary parking spaces may be 
provided for an ADU
• Tandem orientations allowed for ADU parking
• Existing driveway/curb cut may remain when 
garage is demo’d or converted to an ADU
• Driveways can be expanded to up to 20-ft 
width for extra parking area
• Setback exemptions for covered parking 
within the footprint of a two-story ADU

--- page 377 ---
Second Story Decks and Balconies
Current Standard
All second-story decks & balconies 
require ADUDR.

--- page 378 ---
Second Story Decks and Balconies
Updated Standard
Second-story decks & balconies considered ministerially when:
•
No portion of the deck or balcony is within side/rear setback of 
the underlying zoning district. 
•
Deck or balcony does not exceed 50 square feet
•
Deck is interior-facing
ADUDR process remains available for decks/balconies that do not 
meet above standards*
*Roof decks are prohibited

--- page 379 ---
Amend Section 27.19.070 to add the following language:
27.19.070(b)(2)(C) “Any additional ADUs as allowed pursuant to 
State Law”
DESK AMENDMENT

--- page 380 ---
Recommend that the City Council introduce an Ordinance to 
amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19, “Accessory 
Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential 
Zones” to address comments from the California Department of 
Housing and Community Development (HCD) to align with current 
state law, and to address Housing Element programs. 
Recommendation

--- page 381 ---
27.19.070 Multifamily ADU Development Standards.
(a) Applicability. This section applies to all ADUs located on lots with existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling 
Structure(s).
(b) Number of Units Allowed.
 
(1) On a lot with a proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure, up two new Detached ADUs may be 
allowed.
 
(2) On a lot with an existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure, the following ADUs may be permitted in 
combination:
 
 
(A) Up to eight New Construction Detached ADUs may be allowed, provided that the 
 
 
number of ADUs shall not exceed the number of existing primary residential dwelling units 
 
on the lot.
 
 
(B) Conversion ADUs created by converting non-living space within an existing Multifamily 
 
Dwelling Structure. The number of non-living space Conversion ADUs may be at least one, 
 
and not more than 25 percent of the number of existing primary residential dwelling units.
 
 
(C) Any additional ADUs as allowed pursuant to State law.

--- page 382 ---
Thank You
Liz Gagliardi
Associate Planner, Community Development
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org