--- page 1 ---
POLITICS & GOVERNMENT
Immigration and privacy limits on license plate
cameras pass WA Senate
By Simone Carter
Updated February 9, 2026 12:38 PM

--- page 2 ---
Washington state is one step closer to limiting the use of automatic license
plate reader (ALPR) cameras.
ALPR technology from companies including Flock Safety gathers data and
images for use by government agencies. Many law enforcement entities, for
instance, have leaned on the cameras for help solving crimes.
Senate Bill 6002 by state Sen. Yasmin Trudeau, a Tacoma Democrat, passed Feb.
4 on a 40-9 vote; only Republicans voted against the measure. There are
currently no laws in the state regulating the readers’ use.
Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle back the bill for its personal privacy-
protection aims.
Trudeau told her Senate colleagues on Feb. 4 that she comes from a community
with “heightened concerns about surveillance technology.” She said she views
the bill as a way to ensure privacy is protected while the state meets
expectations of accountability and transparency.
“For me right now, without this bill, anybody can access that information,”
Trudeau said Feb. 4 on the Senate floor. “It is literally the wild, wild west when
it comes to data protection.”
Olympia Interim Police Chief Shelby Parker recommended the suspension of the Flock camera system after community
members voiced concerns about privacy and immigration enforcement. She said the system has assisted in dozens of
cases since last year. By City of Olympia
Key Takeaways
AI-generated summary reviewed by our newsroom.

--- page 3 ---
Many Democrats rallied behind the bill because it prohibits immigration
enforcement from using ALPR data, while some Republicans also view it as a
necessary step to prevent government overreach.
Multiple Washington cities have rolled back the use of Flock cameras in recent
months, including Olympia and Redmond.
Trudeau praised her co-sponsor, Republican Sen. Jeff Holy of Cheney, for his
willingness to work across the political divide. She noted that the former
detective took some heat from conservatives over his support.
SB 6002 would limit the length of time that ALPR data can be preserved.
Although the original bill set a cap of 72 hours, the measure was later amended
to extend that time frame to 21 days after senators weighed input from law
enforcement agencies, and there’s an exception for when such data is needed
for evidence.
Republican Sen. Leonard Christian of Spokane Valley explained on the Senate
floor that police have used cameras to track down robbery suspects later
rather than engaging in a dangerous pursuit. He also disagreed that residents
have a reasonable expectation of privacy when driving on public streets.
Critics of the technology have noted that ALPR has been harnessed to stalk ex-
partners, and a police department in Texas last year tapped Washington state
ALPR data as it conducted a nationwide hunt for a woman who’d had an
abortion, a Feb. 4 news release from the Senate Democratic Caucus said. Eight
or more Washington law enforcement agencies seem to have allowed their
reader networks to be shared with U.S. Border Patrol in 2025, per research
conducted by the University of Washington’s Center for Human Rights.
The bill would also bar such cameras from being used to track protests and
other protected activities, as well as their use near food banks, schools, courts
or places of worship.

--- page 4 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Holy put a rhetorical question to his colleagues.
“Is anyone in this body who is seriously going to argue we do not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy when it comes to every single movement
being tracked — especially when it concerns what time you drop your kids out
of school, where you attend religious services, what kind of doctor you visit?”
he said ahead of the Senate vote.
The Washington state House of Representatives will now consider the
legislation. March 12 marks the final day of the 2026 session.
This story was originally published February 5, 2026 at 5:00 AM.
Related Stories from The Olympian
CRIME
Eastern WA Flock cameras were searched after false abortion claim
February 4, 2026 12:37 PM
Support my work with a digital subscription
Simone Carter
The Olympian
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 5 ---
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE