--- page 1 ---
LOCAL
Olympia council hears privacy concerns about
license plate cameras. What’s next?
By Ty Vinson
November 24, 2025 8:38 AM

--- page 2 ---
About a dozen people spoke during the Nov. 18 Olympia City Council meeting
against the city’s use of Flock Safety license plate-reading cameras. The council
has received numerous concerns after the interim police chief warned of
immigration enforcement activity and said those authorities don’t have access
to the Flock camera network.
Interim Chief Shelby Parker will give the City Council a briefing on the city’s
use of Flock Safety cameras and data protections on Dec. 2.
Assistant City Manager Stacey Ray told The Olympian that there isn’t a meeting
planned for the council to make a decision whether to end its Flock contract.
She said a contract for the cameras and first 24-months of system use was
signed in March of 2024. The system became operational in July of 2024 and
this existing contract expires at the end of July 2026.
A Washington State Department of Commerce grant funded the $98,550 cost of
the contract. The City’s system includes 15 cameras at six intersections.
Olympia resident Grace Fletcher said at the Nov. 18 meeting that she’s not anti-
law enforcement or anti-technology, but she wants to ensure vulnerable
members of the community are safe.
“It’s about protecting the members of our community and about the survivors
who cannot risk being found by their abuser, the elderly neighbor who lives
alone and the families who trust the city will not use their tax dollars to build a
surveillance system that can be weaponized against them,” she said.
About a dozen people spoke at the Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025, Olympia City Council meeting against the city’s Flock
Safety license plate-reading cameras. An Olympia software company owner said a number of his friends had no idea the
cameras were already in use. By City of Olympia

--- page 3 ---
Fletcher said she’s heard from many of her neighbors who have similar
concerns about the safety and privacy implications of Flock cameras in
Olympia. A Skagit County Superior Court Judge ruled earlier this month that
pictures and information captured on the cameras must be made public in
accordance with state law.
“Flock cameras record every vehicle that passes, whether it belongs to a
domestic violence survivor trying to stay hidden, a family running errands, or
city council member driving home from a meeting,” Fletcher said. “This system
captures your plates, the exact place you were in, the precise moment you
were there, and now, because of this ruling, an entire trail of your movements.
It’s now public information.”
Fletcher said there have already been documented cases across the country of
people using the data to track and stalk people. The University of Washington
found that the City of Lakewood’s Flock camera data had been accessed by
federal agents. The Wichita Eagle reported that the Kansas City police chief
used Flock cameras to track his ex-girlfriend. Law enforcement in Texas
allegedly used the system to track a woman who had an abortion. The
Olympian reached out to Flock Safety for comment and did not immediately
receive a response.
A statement from last month on the company’s website said in part: “Flock is
committed to helping communities improve public safety while remaining in
compliance with their local laws, agency technology policies, and according to
their community’s values. An important part of this equation is ensuring that
all Flock customers own and control access to their data. Every Flock customer
has complete control over their sharing relationships, and Flock never shares
customer data without their knowledge or permission.”
Another person who spoke at the Nov. 18 meeting, Kyle Kimball, said that
while the data being made publicly accessible is a win for transparency, it

--- page 4 ---
raises challenges for municipal governments.
Kimball said he recently filed two public records requests for all Flock data.
The City of Olympia returned over 20,000 records, while OPD returned more
than 2 million images.
He asked the council if it would prefer to keep its Flock contract, or potentially
face liability issues stemming from the inability to meet public records
obligations.
“We’re a small city. We have a small clerk’s office,” he said. “Keeping Flock
means a tidal wave of public record requests, and with each request, the poor
clerks are further behind on responding to other requests. Each failure to
provide records in a reasonable time means a motion will be filed to Thurston
County Superior Court for judicial review.”
Kimball said if the city moved to end its contract, it would be joining Redmond,
Lynwood, Skamania County and other jurisdictions that have already done so.
He said in August, a Redmond father was wrongfully arrested because of Flock,
and that the impending litigation is going to cost city taxpayers. The City of
Hillsborough, North Carolina, also recently ended its contract with the system.
“‘1984’ is far better literature than it is a model for Olympian government,”
Kimball said.
Emily Christianson told the council that she’s vehemently opposed to any of
their tax dollars being spent on surveilling the community.
“I think that if we’re really interested in investing in public safety, we have to
consider the safety of every member of our public, including people who are
now afraid to leave their houses, attend their court appearances, buy their
groceries because they’re being surveilled, not just by these cameras, but by a
wider surveillance network,” she said.

--- page 5 ---
Mike Pelly told the council that his mom grew up in Nazi occupied Holland. He
said he grew up hearing stories of her childhood and people disappearing, and
that they mirror what he sees happening today. He said the city shouldn’t just
shut the camera system down, but get rid of the system and its information
entirely.
Jacob Greenwald said at the meeting that the Olympia Police Department’s
policy states that Flock data shall not be used for immigration enforcement. He
said it’s a very well-meaning policy, but that its effectiveness can’t be
guaranteed with Flock’s data sharing and privacy history.
Greenwald said the interim police chief stated that Olympia’s system is closed
and cannot be accessed by federal authorities, including immigration and
customs enforcement. However, he said he worried that closing the system off
won’t adequately prevent the federal government from accessing data.
“A terrifying example is the city of Denver, Colorado. Their mayor stated the
same things as Olympia’s interim chief, that the ALPR data was closed off and
could not be accessed by the federal government for immigration use,” he said.
Justin Stang told the council that he agreed with the sentiments shared by
other speakers regarding the city’s use of Flock cameras. He said he’s been a
consistent critic of the system for quite some time, and even though the data
hasn’t been accessed or misused to date, that the city shouldn’t wait for trust to
be broken before taking action.
Lacey resident Kevin Pestinger said at the meeting that a handful of his
Olympia friends had no idea the city had already implemented Flock cameras
on the west side.
“It’s very obvious that the general public consensus in Olympia is that this is
not something anyone wants,” he said. “I’ve never met anybody who thinks
that they’re in favor or support of this.”

--- page 6 ---
Pestinger said his background is in software, and that he’s concerned about the
risk of vulnerabilities in the Flock system that could allow someone to find the
location of the cameras and of police vehicles online.
Marie Donahue told the council that it’s mistaken if it believes the federal
government doesn’t have access to Flock data, since it is public information.
The council responds
Council member Clark Gilman said at the meeting that if a single public
records request can yield more than 2 million images, then anyone can access
sensitive information. He said he has a lot of learning to do ahead of the Dec. 2
study session.
Council member Robert Vanderpool said he’s had concerns about the Flock
system since the city started talking about them two years ago. He said the city
may have enacted measures to keep information secure, but that the federal
government acts without caring about local law.
Vanderpool said he’s also concerned about private companies using the data
from outside the city. He said he’s in support of the council ending its contract
with the system.
Mayor Dontae Payne said the situation is evolving, and after what he heard
from the public Tuesday night, his thoughts are evolving as well. He said the
council needs to have the discussion with the interim police chief on Dec. 2
before it can make any decisions.
Related Stories from The Olympian
LOCAL
Olympia police chief warns of ICE arrest, says Flock camera data is secure
November 7, 2025 3:59 PM

--- page 7 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Ty Vinson covers the City of Olympia and keeps tabs on Tumwater and other communities in Thurston County. He joined
The Olympian in 2021. Before that, he earned his bachelor’s degree in journalism at Indiana University. In college, he
worked as an intern at the Northwest Indiana Times, the Oregonian and the Arizona Republic as a Pulliam Fellow.
Support my work with a digital subscription
Ty Vinson
The Olympian
360-357-0201
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 8 ---
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE