--- page 1 ---
SEATTLE
How ICE is using technology, databases to track
people
By Lauren Girgis, The Seattle Times The Tribune Content Agency
Under the Trump administration’s aggressive deportation agenda, federal
immigration agents have been granted an arsenal of surveillance tools to
deploy against migrants and citizens.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection
have an array of technologies they have purportedly used to track
undocumented migrants, legal immigrants and, in some cases, citizens who
oppose the government’s intrusion in their local communities.
Updated February 16, 2026 4:41 PM

--- page 2 ---
In Minneapolis, for example, several American citizens were recorded by ICE
agents with facial recognition technology, and ICE has used cellphone and
social media tools to monitor online activity and potentially hack into phones,
The New York Times reported.
The extent to which agents in Washington state are using such technology is
not immediately clear.
“They have all these tools, these contracts are active right now,” said Cooper
Quintin, a senior staff technologist for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. “So I
think it is safe to assume that a lot of this technology is being used.”
The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to a request for
comment.
What is in ICE’s toolbelt?
Last year, Trump signed off on increasing the agency’s annual budget from $8
billion to nearly $29 billion, making it the highest funded law enforcement
agency in the country.
“They bought access to basically every piece of surveillance technology that
has been invented in the last 20 years,” Quintin said.
404 Media, an independent technology reporting media organization, has
previously reported about a host of newly acquired ICE contracts for
surveillance tools, including systems called Tangles” and “Webloc” that can
track cellphones without a warrant.
A contract with Cellebrite helps ICE unlock phones and can easily access all
data on the phone, including location history and encrypted app messages. The
agency has also resumed a contract with the spyware manufacturer Paragon,
which can install malware that reads encrypted messages as they are sent and
even turn on a phone’s microphone to record, according to the Electronic

--- page 3 ---
Frontier Foundation. (The Biden administration froze an ICE order with
Paragon, an Israeli company, to review whether the spyware could pose a
threat to the U.S. government).
ICE has also spent millions to acquire AI tools to scrape social media to surveil
people’s public accounts. They’ve also acquired cell-site simulators, or
stingrays, which act as cell towers to identify and locate nearby mobile phones.
The agency’s biometric surveillance tools, which scan faces and irises, have
also been deployed in Minnesota. Some citizens have reported having their
faces checked in real time by agents using a mobile app, according to The
Washington Post.
A new contract with Palantir, Peter Thiel’s AI outfit, connects data from
different networks and allows ICE to view previously disconnected
information about specific people in one place: like immigration and Internal
Revenue Service data. 404 Media reported last month that Palantir is working
on a tool to map potential “deportation targets,” bring up dossiers on them and
provide “confidence scores” for the targets’ addresses.
Tom Homan, Trump’s “border czar” told Fox News last month that the
administration would create a “database” of those who protest or impede ICE
enforcement.
How are local systems accessed by immigration agents?
A study from the University of Washington Center for Human Rights’
Immigrant Rights Observatory found that Flock Safety’s automated license
plate reader networks data were shared with U.S. Border Patrol by at least
eight Washington law enforcement agencies in 2025. Several municipalities
have terminated contracts with Flock, which dominates the license plate
reader market in the United States, as a result.
Angelina Snodgrass Godoy, the director of the UW Center for Human Rights,
said that one of the ways federal officials were able to access data is through a

--- page 4 ---
“side-door search” - when local law enforcement officers conduct a search on
behalf of or as a favor to federal immigration officials. “That’s really
extraordinarily difficult to track,” she said.
Godoy says the findings fly in the face of the state’s Keep Washington Working
Act, which prohibits assistance and information-sharing by local law
enforcement with federal immigration authorities. But sometimes, she said,
officials have been accessing data without the knowledge of local law
enforcement.
“That speaks to a core vulnerability in the systems themselves, and that’s why
those surveillance systems are so dangerous, right? Because they are very easy
to penetrate,” Godoy said.
Senate Bill 6002, which passed the Washington state Senate last week, would
prohibit police from sharing automatic license plate reader data for civil
immigration enforcement and require that data be deleted within 21 days
unless it’s needed for police evidence.
But there are “many concerns that the bill doesn’t begin to address,” Godoy
said, including that it doesn’t affect the many private operators of ALPRs.
Godoy’s team found that the Yakima Police Department, for instance, had
access to Flock networks operated by more than 90 Lowe’s hardware stores:
locations that, like Home Depot, are often the target of enforcement actions.
Another study by the UW researchers found that federal agencies have been
able to query a law enforcement data-sharing platform to access
Washingtonians’ Department of Licensing data. In November, state officials cut
off ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations’ access to the data, but Customs
and Border Patrol agents can still query it. Between August and January, the
researchers documented 15 cases in which ICE or CBP conducted immigration
arrests on Washington roads after querying Department of Licensing data, at

--- page 5 ---
least nine of which were civil immigration arrests, not criminal, according to
the study.
“In this market where data is sold and traded with so few restrictions by all
these data brokers and surveillance companies, there’s few things that any
party has exclusive hold of,” Godoy said. “The DOL has exclusive hold of
information.
Godoy said using state licensing data is the only way agents can see a vehicle,
know who owns it, look that person up in their other databases, and decide if
they want to pull that person over.
What can you do to avoid being surveilled?
Quintin said the most effective way to protect against smartphone surveillance
is to not have a phone.
Given that is unrealistic, he said, people should turn their phones off when at a
protest or expect to be detained. If you can’t turn off your phone, Quintin
recommends putting it in airplane mode. He also recommends people turn off
face or fingerprint unlocking options.
To avoid social media monitoring, the foundation suggests people keep
accounts private on social media or have their accounts under a pseudonym.
For protesters and demonstrators, wearing a mask is the best option to conceal
their identity from facial recognition tech, and bike or take public transit to
avoid your license plate info being tracked.
An earlier version of this story misspelled Cooper Quintin’s name.
Copyright 2026 Tribune Content Agency. All Rights Reserved.
This story was originally published February 16, 2026 at 9:55 AM.

--- page 6 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 7 ---
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE