source: packet.pdf
sha256: 1d091e19126b4ee045e19a08242ee45052a649487f0f0e9e299edcf527d6e913
pages: 28
ocr_pages: 6
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee
November 10, 2020
4:00 PM
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Stephen Tabler, Chair
Dianne Whitaker, Vice Chair
Robert Gooyer
Ramiro Maldonado
Ginger Slonaker
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November10, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968
Enter Conference ID: 847 0523 6125     Passcode: 449487
CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one
motion without discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered
separately.
1.
Civic Arts Committee Minutes – Approval
Approve Civic Arts Committee Minutes of September 14, 2020. (Tabler, Whitaker, Gooyer, Slonaker)
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Request for Approval of Public Art Application for 1650 S. Delaware St.
Review and approval of public art application for 1650 S. Delaware St. submitted by Four Corners Properties.
3.
Art in Public Places 2020 Report & Plan
Review and recommend approval of the Art in Public Places 2020 Report & Plan to the City Council.
4.
Racial Equity Public Art Project – Process Discussion
Discuss and decide upon process steps to implement racial equity public art project.
5.
2021 Regular Meeting Schedule
Review and approve the Civic Arts Committee Regular Meeting schedule for calendar year 2021.
1 of 28

--- page 2 ---
6.
Election of Officers for terms of January 2021 through November 2022.
Committee By‐Laws direct that Officers of the Committee are elected to hold office in alignment with the 2‐
year term of the Civic Arts Committee.
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 28

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee 
September 14, 2020
4:00 PM
REMOTE on ZOOM
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Stephen Tabler, Chair 
Dianne Whitaker, Vice Chair
Robert Gooyer 
Ramiro Maldonado 
Ginger Slonaker
 
MINUTES 
This meeting was held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; in 
which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency.
CALL TO ORDER
CTO
Roll Call: 
PRESENT: Chair Stephen Tabler, Vice-Chair Dianne Whitaker, Robert Gooyer, Ginger Slonaker
ABSENT: Ramiro Maldonado
STAFF: Heather Stewart, Senior Mgmt. Analyst
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If 
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. The following items were approved separately due to 
applicable quorums for each. Motion passed as indicated.
1.
Approval of minutes of September 9, 2019

Moved: Gooyer; Second: Slonaker; passed 4-0
2.
Approval of minutes of January 13, 2020

Moved: Whitaker; Second: Slonaker; Abstain: Gooyer; passed 3-0
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit a “Request to Speak” form at this 
time. State law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to 
staff for follow up.

None
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Request for Approval of Public Art Application for 406 E. 3rd Avenue

Mike Field from Windy Hill and consultant Lisa Ring
o
Presented the plan of lighted Chroma panels on the corner of 3rd Avenue & Railroad.

CAC 
o
CAC liked the concept as whole but found it lacking any specific artistic component.
o
Motion to approve: Whitaker; No second; motion did not carry
4.
Review of Concepts for Public Art at 1650 S. Delaware – Study Session

Maria Di Grande & Bryan Yedinak from MDG Art Advisory; Bruce Burkard and David Wilbur with Four 
Corners Properties
o
Presented three concepts for a mosaic mural within and surrounding the arched entryway.

CAC Comments
o
Liked the concepts, style, & the fit with the architecture of the building. No changes suggested. 
DRAFT
3 of 28

--- page 4 ---
5.
Racial Equity Public Art Project 

Senior Management Analyst Heather Stewart
o
Provided information from City Council discussion and input regarding this project.
o
Will be work toward to bringing process recommendations to next CAC meeting. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items.
The Carey School Art Installation Deferral
o
Informed CAC regarding decision to approve The Carey School’s request for deferral of their art 
installation until June 30, 2022.
ADJOURNMENT

Adjourned at 5:40pm
4 of 28

--- page 5 ---
5 of 28

--- page 6 ---
San Mateo Civic Arts Commission
1650 South Delaware Street
San Mateo
November 10, 2020
MDG Art Advisory  
6 of 28

--- page 7 ---
Site Plan

1650 South Delaware Street

PACIFIC DR.

-

L\earcet MAP vot. 21/6
PARCEL MAP VOL 16/21

7 of 28


--- page 8 ---
1650 Rendering South
Project Description :  Developer 4 Corners Property
•Construction of approximately 123,241 square foot ﬁve-story structure for 73 residential apartment units including an at-grade 
parking garage containing 98 vehicular parking spaces and 96 long-term bicycle spaces. Eight (8) short-term bike spaces are 
provided at the front of the building.
•The proposed multi-family building consists of a combination of one and two-bedroom units, ranging from 773 square feet to 
1,472 square feet and includes a ﬁtness room, common and private opens spaces areas, and a leasing ofﬁce. The 73 residential 
rental units includes six (6) below market rate units to be provided at the very low-income level and includes a 35% density bonus 
for providing the maximum affordable units at the very low-income level.
8 of 28

--- page 9 ---
_ Pie 7 PnAP T,3

Area of Proposed Art

a ses es PE NE ERED CE PH

9 of 28


--- page 10 ---
10 of 28


--- page 11 ---
leasing, mail,

lobbies

11 of 28


--- page 12 ---
History of Mosaic Art
Mosaics have a long history, starting in Mesopotamia in the 3rd millennium BC. Pebble mosaics were made in 
Tiryns in Mycenaean Greece; mosaics with patterns and pictures became widespread in classical times, both in 
Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Early Christian basilicas from the 4th century onwards were decorated with 
wall and ceiling mosaics. Mosaic art ﬂourished in the Byzantine Empire from the 6th to the 15th centuries; that 
tradition was adopted by the Norman Kingdom of Sicily in the 12th century, by the eastern-inﬂuenced Republic 
of Venice, and among the Rus in Ukraine. Mosaic fell out of fashion in the Renaissance, though artists like 
Raphael continued to practice the old technique. Roman and Byzantine inﬂuence led Jewish artists to decorate 
5th and 6th century synagogues in the Middle East with ﬂoor mosaics.
Mosaic was widely used on religious buildings and palaces in early Islamic art, including Islam's ﬁrst great 
religious building, the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem, and the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus. Mosaic went 
out of fashion in the Islamic world after the 8th century.
Modern mosaics are made by artists and craftspeople around the world. Many materials other than traditional 
stone, ceramic tesserae, enameled and stained glass may be employed, including shells, beads, charms, chains, 
gears, coins, and pieces of costume jewelry.
Traditional mosaics are made of cut small cubes of roughly square pieces of stone or hand made glass enamel of 
different colors, known as tesserae. Some of the earliest mosaics were made of natural pebbles, originally used 
to reinforce ﬂoors.
Mosaic skinning (covering objects with mosaic glass) is done with thin enameled glass and opaque stained 
glass. Modern mosaic art is made from any material in any size ranging from carved stone, bottle caps, and 
found objects.
12 of 28

--- page 13 ---
Colette Crutcher
Over the course of her 30+-year public art career, Colette Crutcher has created 
painted, tile and relief sculpture works for parks, playgrounds, housing projects 
and public spaces of all kinds. Her best-known works in San Francisco include :
• Tonantsin Renace, a mixed media Aztec-themed mural at 16th St and Sanchez
•  The Moraga and Hidden Garden stairways on 16th Avenue in the Sunset 
(both were collaborations with Aileen Barr)
• The massive Quetzalcoatl sculpture at 24th St. mini park (a collaboration with 
Mark Roller)
• Three mosaic-clad  sculptures at Taraval and 48th Avenue.  
• Further aﬁeld, she and Aileen Barr have created works for Cesar Chavez Park 
in Oakland, Jardin de Ninos playground in Redwood City, and Temple Judea 
synagogue in Los Angeles.  Their multi-stage mosaic projects for Visitacion 
Valley and Miraloma Elementary Schools in San Francisco were recently 
installed, and they are close to completion on a stairway for the City of 
Vallejo, featuring its maritime and architectural history. As a single artist, 
Colette is also working on a stairway mosaic commissioned by Recology, for 
their Tunnel Avenue facility, along with several private commissions.
13 of 28

--- page 14 ---
Hidden Garden Steps, 2013, 
San Francisco, California
Colette Crutcher
14 of 28

--- page 15 ---
Colette Crutcher
Cesar Park, 2013, Oakland, California
15 of 28

--- page 16 ---
Aileen Barr
Lincoln Park 
Stairway, 2015, 
San Francisco, 
California
Aileen has been creating handmade tile projects for the public arena for the past 22 years. In 2002 she emigrated from Ireland to 
San Francisco and since relocating, she has completed a number of large scale public art projects in California. Working large scale 
in the public arena allows for the creation of environments where bold design engages the public from a distance, and rewards 
closer observation with textural detail and richness of color. Community engagement is part the process and can take the form of 
community consultations to hand on collaborations.
Her recent artwork broadly reﬂects the natural environment in an urban context. She try to create unique spaces that allow the 
audience to experience elements of nature not always available in city life. Thematic interests have included ﬂora,fauna and 
cultural history. Pattern and texture also play a role in creating areas of interest.
16 of 28

--- page 17 ---
Aileen Barr
Alta Plaza Playground, 2017, San Francisco, California
Jardin de Niños, 2015, Redwood City, California
17 of 28

--- page 18 ---
Mosaic Art at 1650 South Delaware Street 
Colette Crutcher and Aileen Barr
Process: 
• A mix of high ﬁre handmade tile, glass, ceramic and commercial tiles including relief and 
sculptural elements
• Aileen and Colette work together in the studio 
• They project 2 weeks for installation 
“Our tile art design draws inspiration form the Mediterranean architectural style of the 
building, and from the bold geometrics used in the interior decor. We chose strong contrasts 
for the sunburst, softened by warm earth tones surrounding the arch, for a Moroccan 
marquetry feel.”
Project Projected Budget                                                                  $80,000
Mosaic Tile – Design, Materials, Fabrication, Installation:                $59,500
Adjustments to existing construction                                                  $5,500
Art Consulting                                                                                     $9,500
Lighting (optional)                                                                              $4,000
Misc. & reimbursable expenses                                                          $1,500
Total                                                                                                    $80,000
Statement: 
18 of 28

--- page 19 ---
Mosaic Concept 1

23!

19 of 28


--- page 20 ---
15'

Mosaic Concept 2

23!

20 of 28


--- page 21 ---
Thank you 
Maria Di Grande and  
Bryan Yedinak
maria@mariadigrande.com
mdgartadvisory.com
21 of 28

--- page 22 ---
1 
 
Art in Public Places 
2020 REPORT & PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
INSIDE
PG. 2 
 
Art in Public Places Program 
 
Art in Public Places Fund 
 
Developer Art Values 
 
Equity Public Art Project 
 
Policy Review 
PG. 3 
 
Completed Projects 
PG. 4 
 
In-Progress & Upcoming 
Projects  
 STATION PARK GREEN 
A MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT 
Station Park Green is a mixed-use transit-oriented development that includes 
office space, retail spaces, residential condominiums, and public use facilities 
that includes parks and public art. The large site has diverse uses and the 
developer EBL&S Development, LLC consigned and installed three different 
pieces with different styles from three different artists, each suited to their 
locations. They all have the intent of engaging the viewers and invites them 
to interact in different ways. One may sit under Brad Howe’s painted and 
polished stainless-steel sculpture “Occam’s Razor” on the main plaza at the 
corner of Delaware and Concar. Stand under Miroslav Struzik’s stainless steel 
“Dandelions” and watch them move with the wind or the continual changing 
colors at night on the corner of Concar and Station Park Cir. Peek through 
“Kneeling Man” by Julian Voss-Andreae, a stainless steel sculpture integrated 
into the central park grass area and designed to be approachable, different, 
and engaging from every angle. These pieces were completed in March 2020.
Kneeling Man
Dandelions 
Occam’s Razor 
DEVELOPER PROJECT HIGHLIGHT
22 of 28

--- page 23 ---
2 
 
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM 
DESCRIPTION OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND PROGRAM 
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development of 
cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). The Ordinance requires all 
commercial and multi-family development projects with a building permit valuation of $3 million dollars or more to provide 
on-site public art valued at a half percent (0.5%) of their total valuation, or to pay the equivalent amount into the “Art in Public 
Places Fund (Fund).” The Fund is used for program administration, and for acquisition, installation, improvement and 
maintenance of the artwork funded by the program. The Civic Arts Committee is the advisory body appointed by the City 
Council to implement the Art in Public Places Program (Program) as established by the Ordinance. 
ART IN PUBLIC 
PLACES FUND 
 
EQUITY PUBLIC ART 
PROJECT 
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FUND SOURCES & USES
The Fund consists of the in-lieu payments made to the 
program from obligated development projects that chose
not to install art. As stated in the Ordinance, these funds are 
to be used for “acquisition, installation, improvement, and 
maintenance of artwork to be displayed in the City, and the 
administration of the Art in Public Places Program.”  
FUND BALANCE 
The current fund balance in the Art in Public Places Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) account is approximately 
$202,000. There were no in-lieu payments by any projects in 
2020 and none are anticipated within the next year. These 
funds and any future in-lieu payments will be reserved for 
future City-owned public art projects and/or public art
maintenance as needed. Any new public projects will require
the Committee to make a recommendation on the project to 
the City Council, and City Council approval. 
DEVELOPER ART 
VALUES 
VALUE OF COMPLETED ART INSTALLATIONS 
The value of the two (2) projects completed this year totaled 
$906,176. That amount reflects an approximate 14.5% 
greater expenditure than the total obligated value, 
continuing to illustrate that developer projects are 
consistently greater value than required by the ordinance. 
SUPPORTING CITY COUNCIL RACIAL EQUITY RESOLUTION
On July 20, 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution 
reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to racial 
equality and equity. The Council also discussed the concept 
of a community mural or other community art project that 
would reflect and promote racial equity. In September, the 
Civic Arts Committee was provided some additional 
feedback from the Council and further direction to
facilitate the community discussion about the form, 
location, and other ideas that would express the desired 
message in a long-lasting way.  
In November 2020, the Civic Arts Committee will begin 
discussions about the design and implementation of a
process that will assure public engagement and 
participation.  
POLICY REVIEW  
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROCESS REVIEW 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there was no Civic Arts 
Committee activity between January & September 2020.
As a result, and with both the upcoming equity public art 
project described above and ongoing development 
projects seeking approval, this policy review will be 
postponed to a future time when the schedule can better
accommodate this work.  
23 of 28

--- page 24 ---
3 
 
COMPLETED PROJECTS 
ART INSTALLED BY DEVELOPERS AT THEIR PROJECT LOCATIONS  
Two projects fully completed their art installations in 2020: Station Park Green highlighted on the front page and the 405 E. 4th 
Avenue development shown below. Formal completion of art projects requires installation in accordance with the approved 
proposal and final inspections for all art related building permits, the provision of financial documents confirming the obligated 
expenditures, and a recorded Covenant of Public Art Maintenance with San Mateo County to establish the property owner’s 
obligation to maintain the art.  
 
 
SUPERNOVA & WEEPING WILLOW 
WINDY HILL PROPERTIES – 405 E. 4TH AVENUE 
Artist: Lyman Whitaker 
Approximate Dimensions: Supernova 15’-10”; Weeping Willow 16’-7” 
Materials: Stainless Steel 
Developers: Windy Hill Property Ventures 
Installed: 2019 
These pieces are designed to enhance the entrances with mesmerizing 
movement that will add a touch of excitement to the plaza and engage 
visitors. The stainless-steel sculptures have a reputation for standing out 
and grabbing attention, while maintaining a calming, meditative effect. 
The added benefit of the sculptures is how well they take on night lighting, 
which gives them a different and exciting feel at night.  
The selected pieces subtly communicate a statement that merges the city 
feel with a natural element, as the shapes are derived from plants. The 
sculptures function like the plants and greenery incorporated in your 
project, except they do not require watering. 
Supernova 
Weeping Willow 
Weeping Willow (East) 
Supernova (West) 
24 of 28

--- page 25 ---
4 
 
IN-PROGRESS & UPCOMING PROJECTS 
This group of developer projects includes both approved proposals associated with locations that are currently under 
construction as well as projects that have received Planning approval and are working to develop their art proposals. Pictured 
below is the only approved project currently under construction. The other projects listed are in their art development stages 
who have met with the Civic Arts Committee to solicit feedback on their proposals. 
OLYMPIC WANNABES 
WESTLAKE OFFICES - 520 S. EL CAMINO REAL, SAN MATEO 
Artist: Glenna Goodacre 
Approximate Dimensions:  
6’ 8” high x 11” wide 
Materials: Bronze 
Developers: Westlake Urban, Inc. 
 
The sculpture has been partially installed 
and is on schedule to be completed by the 
end of the calendar year.  This artist created 
both the Vietnam Women’s Memorial 
installed in Washington, D.C. and the 
Sacagawea U.S. Dollar image first minted in 
2000. A description of artist Glenna 
Goodacre’s inspiration for this piece states:  
“The concept of Olympic Wannabes emerged from Goodacre’s observation of children enthusiastically watching the 1996 
Olympics, specifically gymnastics. She thought of all of the children around the world doing cartwheels, while aspiring to 
reach this highest level of athleticism. Thus, the five poses are modeled off the various stages of cartwheels, providing a 
complex and interesting composition. She grappled with the challenge of balancing the movement of the five figures with an 
air of light playfulness. She accomplished this through the invisible base that is secured underground, making the children 
appear as though they are floating, frozen in the graceful movement of a cartwheel.” 
UPCOMING PROJECTS 
 
406 E. 3rd Avenue: Four-story mixed-use building with office space and 25 residential units 
 
1650 S. Delaware: Five-story structure for 73 residential apartment units 
 
303 Baldwin: Four & five story mixed use building with 64 residential units, office, and retail spaces 
 
210 S. Fremont: Four-story, 15-unit residential condominium building. 
 
2940 S. Norfolk: Hampton Inn & Suites 
 
City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites – MidPen Housing 
 
1 Carey School Lane: School addition. Approved deferral to June 20, 2022 completion. 
 
Dandelions Istanbul – concept example 
25 of 28

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3855
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Heather Stewart
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 10, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Racial Equity Public Art Project – Process Discussion
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss and decide upon process steps to implement racial equity public art project.
BACKGROUND:
On July 20, 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to racial equality. 
The Council also discussed the concept of a community mural or other community art project that would promote racial 
equity. The Council identified the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) as the appropriate body to facilitate the community 
discussion about the form, location, and other ideas that would express the desired message in a long-lasting way.
A primary intent is to assure transparency and encourage public engagement throughout this project. The CAC has 
Guidelines for the Art in Public Places (AiPP), which contains criteria for the evaluation and approval of developer-placed 
art as well as public art funded by the AiPP. Using that document as a reference, the following is a general outline for the 
CAC to discuss for the planning of this project:
1.
Identify no more than four (4) community members who are willing to serve as advisory members with the CAC to 
facilitate this project (referred to as “Project Team”). 
a.
This will require the ability to participate in virtual meetings once the schedule has been determined by 
the Project Team.
2.
The Project Team will develop a project charter to identify such things as the purpose, objectives, budget, success 
criteria, decision process, schedule, and benchmarks. 
3.
Some of the tasks the Project Team may discuss, consider, and recommend will include subjects such as:
a.
How best to create public participation opportunities for this project
b.
Identify the subject, theme, and type of art
c.
Identify and secure the preferred location for the type of art
d.
Process for soliciting qualifications and/or proposals 
e.
Selection of artist(s), working with artists for final proposals to take to City Council for approval.
f.
Request preliminary draft and selection mock up, depending on the kind of art and RFP parameters
g.
Help identify and plan for such considerations as maintenance, replacement, rotation dependent on the 
type of art as well as opportunities for the community to provide financial support to the project.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Arts in Public Places has a total balance of $202,000 allocated to the CIP project account 310330. With $20,000 
reserved for art maintenance, the remaining $182,000 are available to pay for administrative expenses that may arise from 
the process implementation and the cost of the project expenses. The final project proposal will include a detailed budget 
and will be recommended to the City Council for approval.
26 of 28

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This San Mateo process is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
27 of 28

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo 
Heather Stewart 
Office (650) 522-7164 
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
11.10.2020 
 Civic Arts Committee – Staff Memo 
 
 
Recommendation: 
Review and approve dates and times for the Civic Arts Committee Regular Meeting schedule 
for calendar year 2021. 
Background: 
Per current By Laws for the Civic Arts Committee, the CAC is to have at least one meeting per 
quarter and other meetings as may be determined by the Committee.  To provide a consistent 
and sufficient meeting schedule for both CAC members and applicants, the Committee agreed 
to regular, bi-monthly meeting dates & times.   
This is currently scheduled as the second Monday of every other month from 4-5:30 pm 
virtually on Zoom with in-person meetings determinant on changes in the health orders related 
to COVID-19.  
This is the time for the Committee to discuss and confirm any desired changes to the regular 
schedule, such as different dates or times of day. 
2021 Regular Meeting Schedule: 
 
January 11, 2021 
 
March 8, 2021 
 
May 10, 2021 
 
July 12, 2021 
 
September 13, 2021 
 
November 8, 2021 
Special Meetings: 
As the CAC is preparing to implement a new public art project, there may be the necessity to 
schedule special meetings in addition to this regular schedule. There are currently no identified 
dates. Those will be schedule as needed and will not change the regular meeting schedule. 
To 
Civic Arts 
Committee 
From 
Heather Stewart 
Senior Mgmt. 
Analyst 
Re 
2021 Meeting 
Schedule 
28 of 28