source: packet.pdf
sha256: da8e1e43ff1173e7d761b8c565a60a12b7e6ab5d0beed689d18ba1461e0a9541
pages: 54
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
May 13, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 13, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 862 9317 8312     Passcode: 446995 
Agenda Amended May 8, 2025
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of 2.11.25 and 2.25.25.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
Housing Element Implementation – Zoning Code Amendments and Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program
Update
Recommend the City Council adopt an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to address affordable
housing compliance options, planning application procedures, and minimum densities for residential mixed-use
development projects; and recommend that the City Council approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below
Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program to implement various policies and programs established in San Mateo’s 2023-
2031 Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle); and find that the Ordinance and Resolution are exempt from further
environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183.
CEQA: This project is exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) Section 15183.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9960
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 13, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of 2.11.25 and 2.25.25.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 2.11.25 
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 2.25.25
STAFF CONTACT
Holeva Finau, Administrative Assistant
hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7236

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/11/25
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, February 11, 2025
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Seema Patel, Vice Chair Adam Nugent, Commissioners John Ebneter and John Klafter
Remote: 
None
Absent: 
Commissioner Margaret Williams
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
PUBLIC HEARING
1.
Zoning Code Amendments - Implementation of Housing Element Policies and General Plan Ballot Measure T
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, presented an overview of the Zoning Code Amendments for the implementation 
of Housing Element policies and the General Plan Ballot Measure T.
Public Comment: 
Public commenter, Kara Cox, supported the amendments, but expressed concerns regarding affordability, 
accessability, and the number of approved multifamily housing projects built.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on lot size for a midrise building with 50 units, No Net Loss provisions, 
inclusionary housing policy, implementation actions for a R-1 Single-Family Residential zone, expansion of available 
housing units under the Measure T Ordinance, capacity of available housing sites under California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA), the administrative approval threshold study, appeal process for projects approved under the 
administrative approval threshold, public noticing and neighborhood meeting requirements for administrative 
approval, alternative recommendations for City Council, and readings at City Council.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners discussed increasing the number of units to be administratively approved and, potentially, 
eliminating the administrative approval threshold entirely. Some Commissioners suggested incentives for developers 
that build condominium units and create home ownership opportunities. Some Commissioners expressed concern 
for the housing crisis, the administrative approval threshold survey, and imposing conditions for home ownership. 
Commissioners suggested that projects up to 50 units that comply with Objective Design Standards and projects up 
to 150 units that are within a .5 mile radius of transit should be approved at the administrative level.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/11/25
2
The Commission moved to recommend to the City Council adoption of two ordinances that amend sections of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code Title 27, Zoning to: 1) implement various programs and policies established in San 
Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle) and 2) implement General Plan Ballot Measure T, 
approved by voters on November 5, 2024; and find that the ordinances are exempt from further environmental 
review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183 (Projects Consistent With a 
Community Plan, General Plan, or Zoning). The recommendation included raising the threshold for residential 
development projects that are in compliance with the City’s adopted Objective Design Standards from the existing 
25-unit limit to 150 units. Alternatively, the Planning Commission recommended the City Council eliminate the unit 
threshold altogether. 
 
The Commission included an alternative recommendation for City Council consideration that all housing projects, 
with no size limit, that comply with Objective Design Standards be approved at the administrative level. 
 
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Klafter
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Ebneter, Klafter
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Williams
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:13 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Seema Patel, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/25/25
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, February 25, 2025
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Seema Patel, Vice Chair Adam Nugent, Commissioners John Ebneter, John Klafter, and Margaret 
Williams
Remote: 
None
Absent: 
None
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 1.28.25.
Moved:
Klafter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Ebneter, Klafter
Noes:
None
Abstain:
Williams
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
PUBLIC HEARING
2.
200 N. Quebec Street – Special Use Permit to Allow for a Community Service Use (PA-2023-075)
Principal Planner, Elaine Ling, presented an overview of the architectural and site design, and uses of the proposed 
project. 
Applicant, Guy Fong, presented the project.
Public Comment: 
Public commenters, Dan DaDoun and Che Chen Liu, expressed concern for operating hours, operating schedules, 
parking, safety, maintenance, noise, and traffic.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the project operation plan, Conditions of Approval, deed requirements, 
hours of operation, loading zone area hours, open gym hours, Saturday operating hours, pick up and drop off plan,

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/25/25
2
accuracy of schedule, programming on Sundays, public use, local community opportunities, Code Enforcement case, 
deferred maintenance, and bicycle parking.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners supported the project but raised concerns for hours of operation. Commissioners suggested 
modifying the pickup and drop off plan, adding more bicycle parking, eliminating monthly operating restrictions, and 
adjusting operating hours.
The Commission moved to adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit to allow a community service use 
(basketball training facility) in an existing building located at 200 N. Quebec Street in a Single-Family Residence (R1C) 
district, and determine that the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 1, Section 15301 from 
further environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), based on the Findings for 
Approval and subject to Conditions of Approval; including an amendment to Condition #30, Subsection A to state 
that the project operational plan shall be followed at all times regardless of the time of year, except that the 
maximum hours of operation for the facility shall be between Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm and 
on Saturday and Sunday from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm.
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Ebneter, Klafter, Williams
Noes:
None
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC HEARING
3.
Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s approval of a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for a for a Two-Unit 
Development (TUD) at 1825 Nash Drive (PA-2023-082)
Associate Planner, Elizabeth Gagliardi, presented an overview of the architectural and site design, and uses of the 
proposed project. 
Nicholas Colucci presented an appeal for the project.
Applicant, Sheva Hu, and Architect, Kenneth Huo, presented the project.
Public Comment: 
Public commenter, Kathleen Falzon, expressed concern for traffic, parking, and high-density development.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on parking, setbacks, number of proposed units, window head height, flag 
lots, in lieu payment instead of landscaping, paving differences on the grading and drainage plan and the site plan, 
Senate Bill 330 (SB 330), Senate Bill 9 (SB 9) requirements, and Planning Commission’s decision-making capabilities.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners supported the subdivision of the lot and use of the property. Commissioners expressed concern for 
massing, room layout, natural light in the dining room, plate height, impact to the neighborhood, and sea level rise. 
Commissioners discussed the application of State Bill 9 (SB 9), State Bill 330 (SB 330), and State Bill 450 (SB 450) to 
the project.
The Commission moved to adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the approval of a SFDDR for a Two-
Unit Development (TUD) at 1825 Nash Drive for a new 1,200 square-foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) on Lot A, 
and a new 2,400 square-foot single-family dwelling with an attached 800 square-foot ADU on Lot B, as well as a Site

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/25/25
3
Development Planning Application (SDPA) for removal of major vegetation, based on the findings and subject to the 
Conditions of Approval; and determine that this project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 3, Section 
15303 from further environmental review under California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Urban Lot Split 
(ULS) and Tentative Parcel Map (TPM) were approved ministerially by the Zoning Administrator and are not subject 
to the appeal.
Moved:
Klafter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Klafter, Williams
Abstain:
Ebneter
Noes:
None
Absent: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on staffing changes and items for future Planning Commission 
meetings, including the cancellation of the March 11th, 2025 Planning Commission Regular meeting. There were no other 
reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:11 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Seema Patel, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 
25-9877
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 13, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Housing Element Implementation – Zoning Code Amendments and Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend the City Council adopt an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to address affordable housing 
compliance options, planning application procedures, and minimum densities for residential mixed-use development 
projects; and recommend that the City Council approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) 
Program to implement various policies and programs established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth 
Housing Cycle); and find that the Ordinance and Resolution are exempt from further environmental review pursuant to 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183.
BACKGROUND:
San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element provides a plan to accommodate the City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation 
(RHNA) of 7,015 new housing units, to support the production of housing at all income levels, and to affirmatively further 
fair housing for the Sixth Housing Element Cycle. The City Council adopted the 2023-2031 Housing Element on May 20, 
2024, and it was subsequently certified by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) on 
July 23, 2024. California has required that all local governments (cities and counties) adequately plan to meet the housing 
needs of their community. Local governments meet this requirement by adopting Housing Elements, which are updated 
every eight years. The Housing Element is a chapter of a city’s General Plan, is the only element of the General Plan subject 
to State requirements for content, and it must be certified by HCD. State funding programs for transportation, 
infrastructure, and housing often require or consider a local jurisdiction’s compliance with housing element law. In 
addition, non-compliant housing element requirements and targets could potentially affect a local jurisdiction’s ability to 
impose local zoning and land use controls over housing development and receive certain types of State funding and grants. 
The Housing Element includes five goals to support compliance with state law and to achieve the City’s RHNA – supporting 
Production, Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing. To achieve these goals during 
this Housing Cycle, the Housing Element includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions. Numerous Housing Element 
policies and programs require Zoning Code amendments. Based on the implementation plan timeline and for practical and 
efficiency purposes, staff bundled a number of these amendments together for City Council approval. On April 7, 2025, the 
City Council adopted an ordinance to amend several chapters of the Zoning Code to complete Housing Element 
implementation actions under Policies H1.7, H1.13, H1.14, H1.15, H1.16, and H3.7.  
The Ordinance (Attachment 1) amends several chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) to 
implement programs to support the goal of housing production within the Housing Element. These include the following 
items, that are discussed in more detail in the discussion section below:

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Allow for alternative compliance options for required onsite affordable dwelling units in housing development 
projects (Policy H1.3)
•
Add provisions for appeal procedures for processing planning applications (Policy H1.6)
•
Modify provisions for planning approval expiration and extensions (Policy H1.6)
•
Modify language for approval authority of development projects that exceed height thresholds (Policy H1.6)
•
Set minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects (Policy H1.9)
The City’s Below Market Rate (BMR) Program that establishes the inclusionary housing guidelines is regulated through a 
resolution adopted by the City Council under SMMC Section 27.16.050. The Resolution (Attachment 3) revises the BMR 
Program guidelines to implement the alternative compliance options for the required onsite affordable dwelling units in 
housing development projects.
DISCUSSION: 
Zoning Code Amendments
The Ordinance to implement the Zoning Code amendments is provided as Attachment 1. To provide context for the 
proposed amendments, Attachment 2 provides the text with strikeouts and underlines to show what is proposed to be 
added or deleted from the existing Code. 
Streamline the Development Review Process
The Ordinance proposes to: 1) modify and add several sections of the Zoning Code to reduce the development review 
timeline for housing projects by streamlining the development review process, 2) align City requirements with SB 330 
(Housing Crisis Act of 2019), and 3) add certainty in the development application process in support of Housing Element 
Policy H1.6. 
Existing state law (Government Code Section 65943) pursuant to the Permit Streamlining Act, and as modified by the 
Housing Crisis Act, requires the City to determine in writing whether a development (planning) application is considered 
‘complete’ based on a list of required materials published by the City. If the City determines the planning application is 
incomplete, state law requires the City provide an appeals process and a timeline to complete the appeals process.  The 
Ordinance proposes to insert subsection (b) within Section 27.08.035 to establish an appeals process subject to the review 
and determination of the Planning Commission within a designated timeline, in conformance with state law.
For planning application approvals and approval extensions, SMMC Section 27.08.085 specifies that the approval of a 
planning application shall expire two years from the approval date, except that when a completed building permit 
application is filed before the planning approval expiration date and a building permit is issued within six months after the 
two-year expiration date. In total, approvals expire 2.5 years from the approval date unless a building permit has been 
issued.  Subsection (b) of Section 27.08.087, Planning Approval Extension, currently allows the Zoning Administrator to 
extend the planning application approval once up to two years under certain circumstances and findings. 
The Ordinance would amend this code section to allow the Zoning Administrator to approve up to two extensions, each for 
up to two years. Given the current development climate and the challenges getting a project ready for construction after 
the project entitlement including demolishing existing buildings and preparing the site for development, securing 
financing, and coordinating with public utilities, there is a need for developers to be able to obtain additional time that 
exceeds the current timeline allowed in the Zoning Code. Allowing the potential for one additional two-year extension (for 
a total of up to four years, if justified) provides greater certainty for developers that their initial investment in obtaining 
entitlements for housing development projects will not be lost. This will allow developers to complete the construction of 
the project as approved, which is also in the City’s interest to satisfy the housing production targets in the Housing 
Element. The overarching objective is to continue to support projects starting construction as expeditiously as possible 
after approval, while also allowing for reasonable extensions, as needed.
An additional measure to streamline the development review process is aligning the approval authority of development

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
projects based on building height as provided for in General Plan 2040. Currently, SMMC Section 27.08.030(c) requires City 
Council approval of development projects over 55 feet in height. This provision is outdated by the adoption of new land 
use designations in General Plan 2040 and subsequent voter adoption of Measure T, which allows for building heights to 
exceed the limits in General Plan 2030 and under Measure Y. Staff recommends modifying the language in Section 
27.08.030(c) to require City Council approval of projects when they exceed the building height limit specified in General 
Plan 2040, which depends on the location of the project and the height limit of the applicable land use designation. The 
Council recently increased the Zoning Administrator’s approval authority threshold from 25 units to 99 units, and similarly 
aligning the building height threshold for Council approval with the thresholds provided in General Plan 2040 will 
streamline the development review and approval process by eliminating additional public meetings.  Regardless of the 
review and approval authority, all city policies, ordinances, and standards apply equally to all multiple-family housing 
development projects and are equally reviewed under the State’s Housing Accountability Act, which limits the City’s ability 
to deny residential projects that comply with applicable codes and objective standards.
Minimum Density in Mixed-Use Residential Development Projects
At an August 14, 2024 study session, the City Council discussed implementation of Housing Element Policy H1.9, which 
requires the City to establish minimum densities for mixed-use residential development projects. As discussed at that 
study session, areas designated as Mixed-Use in General Plan 2040 provide the greatest flexibility for the type of projects 
that may be developed and generally allow for housing, commercial and/or office, or a combination of these uses.
Projects in mixed-use zones are not required to include residential uses, and projects are allowed to be developed as non-
residential projects, depending on property owner/developer interest, market conditions, and other factors. Over the last 
several years, the City has seen a growing trend of mixed-use development projects with a residential component. Most of 
these projects have included significant residential components that meet or exceed the zoned base density. However, in a 
few cases, projects have provided only a small residential component to qualify for concessions and waivers under the 
primary State Density Bonus Law (SDBL) (Govt. 65915 et seq.) to benefit the commercial component of the project.
Another section of the SDBL gives a developer density bonus benefits to the commercial component of a mixed-use 
residential in partnership with an affordable housing developer and if the residential component meets certain 
affordability thresholds. However, mixed-use development projects within the City are typically developed by a single 
developer (not in conjunction with an affordable housing developer) and do not request density bonuses through the 
commercial development density bonus provisions.
At the August 14, 2024 Council study session, City Council members also generally agreed that the City should establish 
minimum densities for mixed-use housing developments and should establish higher minimum densities near Caltrain 
stations. Thus, staff is proposing to establish minimum densities in all mixed-use land use designations established in 
General Plan 2040, with slightly higher minimum densities for areas within ½ mile from the Caltrain stations.
In the proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1), staff recommends adding a new section in Chapter 27.02 to establish minimum 
densities in General Plan 2040 mixed-use land use designations. This is an interim measure until the Zoning Code is 
comprehensively updated with new zoning districts that will implement the newly established mixed-use land use 
designations in General Plan 2040 with each zoning district having its own minimum density.
The recommended densities vary based on the intensity of the mixed-use land use designation and whether the project 
area is within ½ mile of a Caltrain station. The recommended minimum densities generally follow the minimum densities 
already established in the General Plan, with slightly higher density thresholds within the ½ mile area of a Caltrain station 
and a slightly lower minimum density outside of that area.
A more detailed analysis will occur with the City’s work on the comprehensive zoning code update and as part of the 
Transit Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy work. San Mateo was awarded a substantial grant to specifically study and 
establish minimum densities for areas within high quality transit areas. That project will study each transit zone at the 
parcel level and may result in changes to the minimum densities currently proposed.

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program Modifications
State law pertaining to inclusionary housing programs authorizes the legislative body of any city or county to adopt an 
inclusionary housing ordinance that includes residential rental units affordable to lower- and moderate-income 
households (Govt. Code 65850 (g).) Among other things, this statute specifies: 
•
Requirements for alternative means of compliance for inclusionary ordinances
•
Parameters for HCD review of inclusionary housing ordinances, under limited circumstances, by requesting the 
submittal of an economic feasibility study to ensure the ordinance does not unduly constrain the production of 
housing
•
Criteria for HCD to review economic feasibility studies.
Policy H.1.3 is one of many actions intended to increase affordable housing production by providing greater flexibility to 
developers. Many jurisdictions allow for various alternative compliance options to the baseline inclusionary requirement in 
their ordinances and accompanying administrative guidelines. The level of detail provided on how developers can propose 
an alternative that meets the jurisdiction’s inclusionary standards varies significantly, however, and some alternative 
compliance options come with conditions that may act as a disincentive.
The City’s current BMR Guidelines allow for an offsite alternative compliance option, but only if it can be demonstrated 
that building the units on-site is infeasible. An applicant would be required to provide an economic analysis comparing the 
construction of units onsite versus offsite and limits this option to development proposals that fit into this category. 
Furthermore, the BMR Guidelines do not provide any further guidance as to how the offsite construction of units should 
be evaluated and approved. 
As noted above, Govt. Code 65850(g) requires alternative methods of compliance to the City’s inclusionary requirements. 
Staff reviewed the inclusionary policies of many other jurisdictions in the state. For an overview of other jurisdictions’ 
policies, please refer to Attachment 5. Staff found that a variety of alternative compliance options are used, including:
 
•
In-lieu fees would allow a developer in certain situations to pay a fee, established through a financial feasibility 
study, instead of building the required affordable units on-site. Typically, fees are allowed on smaller 
developments (where the inclusionary requirement would only produce few units, or for fractional units). Setting 
in-lieu fees is costly and time-consuming, as it requires an extensive analysis of the housing market, the cost to 
develop a variety of unit types, and establishing an affordability gap between what lower-income households can 
pay for housing and the market rate for various units based on size and location. In addition, the imposition of the 
fee, while adding to the City’s coffers for affordable housing, does not immediately result in new units, creating a 
yearslong delay in the production of new units. 
 
•
Land dedication would allow a developer to dedicate land for an affordable housing development. At a minimum, 
this requires the developer to demonstrate that what can be built on that land equals or exceeds the number of 
units required to meet the inclusionary requirement. There are typically several other standards that the proposed 
site must meet related to site control (of the developer or development partner), environmental conditions, 
zoning, and additional conditions, such as ability to deliver the units concurrently with the market-rate or 
commercial project, accessibility to transit or other amenities, affirmatively furthering fair housing, or 
competitiveness for tax credits.
•
Off-site construction would allow a developer to construct the affordable units in different locations than the 
project site. As with land dedication, the developer must demonstrate that the site is suitable to meet or exceed 
the inclusionary requirement; that it is controlled by the developer (or other developer it is assigned to); and, in 
some jurisdictions, that it can meet other requirements related to the site location, such as accessibility to transit 
or other amenities or competitiveness for tax credits. For example, Santa Rosa has a location requirement that 
requires the offsite location to be in the same “quadrant” of the City as the main development, and it cannot be 
near another lower-income development. 
•
Acquisition and rehabilitation would allow a developer to meet its inclusionary obligation by acquiring housing

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
occupied by lower-income households with a commitment to rehabilitating all of the units and deed-restricting 
them.  This option has the potential to work well in communities where there are a significant number of 
apartment buildings in need of rehabilitation; however, there must be a method for demonstrating that the value 
of the alternative meets or exceeds the baseline inclusionary requirement. For example, preserving 10 naturally 
affordable market-rate rental units must be shown to meet or exceed the value of meeting the City’s inclusionary 
requirement (15% lower- income rental units). The City would need to develop an analysis to determine this 
equivalency. In addition, such projects can be difficult to finance and can pose challenges related to income 
verification, relocation, and other issues associated with preservation.
•
Developer-proposed alternatives would allow a developer to propose their own alternative means of compliance. 
In some cases, a city does not have any specific alternatives to on-site development but instead reviews each 
proposal on a case-by-case basis using certain prescribed standards. The developer often proposes one of the 
other methods illustrated above. 
 
In preparation for a comprehensive BMR program revision in 2026, staff will be researching all of these options. However, 
at this time, staff recommends implementing two alternatives to on-site construction to meet State Law requirements and 
to yield as many affordable units as possible within an expedited timeframe: 
1.
Off-site development of affordable units
2.
An option that allows developers to propose an alternative
Staff found that both off-site and developer-proposed alternatives are used in several jurisdictions, including Redwood 
City, East Palo Alto, Sunnyvale, and Hayward. Use of these alternative compliance options at a project-specific level 
requires City Council approval in most cases in the above-mentioned jurisdictions. In addition to providing the alternatives, 
most jurisdictions developed findings that must be made to approve the use of alternative compliance options. The City’s 
Affordable Housing Ordinance can be found in Chapter 27.16.050 and would be amended to incorporate these additional 
compliance options (see Ordinance in Attachment 1). However, the City’s BMR Guidelines, adopted via City Council 
Resolution, contain details about program compliance. The Resolution with the updates to the BMR Guidelines that reflect 
these two additions is included in Attachment 3, with the text in track changes in Attachment 4.
Next Steps
Following this public hearing and a Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council will hold a public hearing to 
introduce the Ordinance, which is tentatively scheduled for June 16, 2025. Once introduced, the Ordinance would be then 
brought back for second reading and adoption at a subsequent City Council meeting.  It would then become effective 30 
days afterwards. The Resolution modifying the Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program, if approved by City Council, 
would become effective immediately.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Zoning Code Amendments to implement the Housing Element and General Plan are fully funded in the Community 
Development Department’s annual operating budget, utilizing the Advanced Planning Fund, and does not impact the City’s 
General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for General Plan 2040 analyzed new residential development of up to 19,764 new 
housing units and growth around the City through 2040. On March 18, 2024, the City Council certified the EIR.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to 
streamline the processing of development applications,  establish minimum densities for mixed-use housing development 
projects, and provisions to allow for alternatives in complying with the inclusionary housing requirements (“Project”) is 
exempt from further environmental review because the Project is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land 
use designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was certified. There are no specific proposed 
changes to residential development densities, and it is consistent with the development densities established by General

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Plan 2040. The Project is also consistent with the implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element 
and pursuant to certain mandates in state law.
Applying Section 15183, there are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project; there are no project specific 
impacts that the General Plan EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially significant off-site and 
cumulative impacts that the EIR failed to evaluate; there is no substantial new information which results in more severe 
impacts than anticipated by the EIR; and projects will be required to comply with mitigation measures contained in the EIR. 
Furthermore, any future development of sites where these code amendments would apply would be evaluated as a 
potential “Project” under CEQA and if necessary, be further assessed for their potential environmental impacts prior to 
City entitlement.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met, including the publishing of a public notice in a newspaper of general 
circulation at least 20 days in advance of the public meeting in compliance with Assembly Bill (AB) 2904 and Government 
Code Section 65854. Additionally, staff sent meeting details in the Planning Division eNewsletter, citywide eNewsletter, 
the Housing Element interested parties list, and posted to the Planning Division’s What’s Happening in Development 
webpage. Staff has not received any public comments as of the publication of the agenda report. Public comments 
submitted after agenda publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public 
Comments.” 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Ordinance
Att 2 – Zoning Code Amendments (Track Changes)
Att 3 – Draft Resolution
Att 4 – Below Market Rate Program Revisions (Track Changes)
Att 5 – Overview of Inclusionary Programs in Other Jurisdictions
STAFF CONTACTS
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org
Rachel Horst, Housing Manager
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to Implement the 2023-2031 
San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle)
WHEREAS, the State Housing Element Law (Government Code Section 65580 et seq.) requires that the 
City Council adopt a Housing Element for the 2023-2031 period to accommodate the City of San Mateo (“City”) 
regional housing need allocation (RHNA) of 7,015 housing units; and 
WHEREAS, on May 20, 2024, the City Council adopted a resolution to adopt the revised Housing Element 
of the General Plan for the period of 2023-2031 (Housing Element); and
WHEREAS, under Housing Element Goal 1 – Production and the Policies H1.3, H1.6, and H1.9, the City 
commits to reviewing and amending the City’s Zoning Code to update the City’s Inclusionary Housing 
requirements to allow for alternative compliance options to increase affordable housing production, update 
standards to support housing production, and create minimum residential densities for mixed-use projects; and
WHEREAS, the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo General Plan 2040 analyzed new 
residential development of up to 19,764 new housing units and growth around the City through 2040; and 
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2024, at a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council certified the EIR for the 
San Mateo General Plan 2040, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, together with 
related State implementation guidelines promulgated thereunder (CEQA); and
WHEREAS, on May 13, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received all 
written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed ordinance to 
amend several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to Implement the 2023-2031 San 
Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle); and
WHEREAS, on ____________, 2025, at a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council adopted a 
ordinance to adopt the amendments to several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
Implement the 2023-2031 San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle).  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings. At a duly noticed public hearing on _____________________, 2025, the City 
Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and considered the accompanying staff report and attachments 
thereto, the exemption from environmental review, together with comments received during the public review 
process, and hereby finds and determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General 
Plan in that it supports the development of housing and achieves the General Plan’s stated goals and policies.
Section 2. Section 27.02.230 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.02 as follows:

--- page 17 ---
27.02.230 RESIDENTIAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
(a) Within a 1/2 mile radius of a Caltrain Station as shown on the General Plan Land Use Map, a mixed-
use development project with a residential component that includes five or more residential units shall comply 
with the following minimum residential densities if the development project is within one of the following 
General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one General Plan Land Use 
Designations, the lowest density requirement applies.
(1) Mixed-Use Low and Mixed-Use Medium I – 30 dwelling units per acre
(2) Mixed-Use Medum II and Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre
(b) A mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes five or more residential 
units outside of a TOD area are required to comply with minimum residential densities when the development 
project is within one of the following General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than 
one General Plan Land Use Designations, the lowest density requirement applies.
(1) Mixed-Use Low – 10 dwelling units per acre
(2) Mixed-Use Medium I – 15 dwelling units per acre
(3) Mixed-Use Medum II – 30 dwelling units per acre
(4) Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre
(c) The City Council may consider a request to reduce the required minimum residential density in a 
mixed-use development project with a residential component for a project that provides a greater percentage of 
affordable housing units than required by Section 27.16.050 Affordable Housing or by providing public 
community benefits. 
Section 3. Section 27.04.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.130 SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR).
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, require a site 
plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval body has approved a 
planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new parking lot, fence over seven (7) 
feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an existing building or parking lot; historic 
buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as specified in Chapter 27.66. Single family and accessory 
buildings that conform to the standards contained in Chapter 27.18, or minor facade modifications as defined in 
Section 27.04.313, and which conform with Section 27.08.031, are exempt from this requirement, unless they 
are specifically designated by this section as requiring review. In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, 
Development Review Board, and Planning Commission shall be guided by the standards adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council. The application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds 
all of the following to exist:

--- page 18 ---
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood;
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City;
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare;
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, 
building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site;
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security.
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in accordance 
with the approved drawings.
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings that exceed the height 
limit in the General Plan.
Section 4. Section 27.08.035 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.035 COMPLETION OF PLANNING APPLICATION.
(a) A planning application is determined to be complete when all documents, reports, data, maps, fees, 
and other information prescribed in Section 27.08.010 are submitted and are determined to be adequate to 
allow the approval body to determine if the required findings can be made. 
(b) For any application determined to be incomplete, an applicant may appeal the incompleteness 
determination to the Planning Commission within 14 days of the date of the incomplete letter. Any appeal shall 
be submitted in writing, and be accompanied by payment of the filing fee. Pursuant to California Government 
Code Section 65943, the Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the appeal not later 
than 60 calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s written appeal. The appeal process shall toll any timing 
requirements to resubmit incomplete application materials. 
(c) The Zoning Administrator may close out an application, if information is requested in writing by the 
Zoning Administrator, and the information has not been submitted to the Zoning Administrator or the action has 
not occurred within 120 days. Applications which are closed out are considered to be withdrawn and any 
unspent fees from the application will be refunded. An applicant for a housing development project, as defined 
in California Government Code Section 65905.5(b)(3) shall follow timelines and provisions outlined in California 
Government Code Section 65941.1 to maintain preliminary application eligibility.
(d) The Zoning Administrator's action may be appealed to the Planning Commission within ten (10) days 
of the Zoning Administrator's action closing out an application, or of determining that a new planning 
application is required.

--- page 19 ---
Section 5. Section 27.08.085 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.085 PLANNING APPROVAL EXPIRATION.
Final approval of a planning application shall expire two years from the date of approval, with the 
following exceptions:
(a) A completed building permit application is filed before the expiration date and a building permit is 
issued prior to or within six months after the two year expiration date.
(b) The property within two years has been used in conformance with the final order.
(c) Approvals granted to the City of San Mateo shall be in force and effect for such time period as funds 
are budgeted in whole or in part for the project by the City or Agency.
(d) Projects for which an extension has been obtained in accordance with Section 27.08.087 below.
Section 6. Section 27.08.087 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a 
planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator shall approve an extension if they find that the 
project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general plan regulations and conditions.
(b) City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve up to two extensions of a planning approval, 
each for up to two years, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit 
the application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide 
the reason(s) for the extension request.
(2) Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of the 
following:
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
(C) The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an increase in 
severity of previously identified environmental impacts.
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood 
by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning 
Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision.

--- page 20 ---
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within 
ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Division and payment 
of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of a planning approval is tolled until a final action 
is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision 
maps.
Section 7. Section 27.16.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.16.050 AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
To implement the affordable housing goals and policies in the General Plan, the City Council adopted the 
Below Market Rate (BMR) Program. Specific requirements for the development of affordable units under the 
BMR Program, including the alternative compliance option of providing offsite affordable units and other 
proposed alternatives, are regulated by resolution adopted by the City Council.
Section 8. Environmental Determination In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to streamline the processing of development applications,  
and establish minimum densities for mixed-use housing development projects is exempt from further 
environmental review because the Project is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use 
designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was certified by the City Council on March 
18, 2024.  Also, there are no specific proposed changes to maximum residential development densities and is 
consistent with the development density established by the General Plan.  The Project is also consistent with the 
implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant to certain mandates in 
state law.  There are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project or the sites; there are no project 
specific impacts that the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially 
significant off-site and cumulative impacts that the general plan EIR failed to evaluate; and there is no 
substantial new information which results in more severe impacts than anticipated by the general plan EIR.
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 21 ---
27.08.030 SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR). 
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, 
require a site plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval 
body has approved a planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new 
parking lot, fence over seven (7) feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an 
existing building or parking lot; historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as 
specified in Chapter 27.66. Single family and accessory buildings that conform to the standards 
contained in Chapter 27.18, or minor facade modifications as defined in Section 27.04.313, and 
which conform with Section 27.08.031, are exempt from this requirement, unless they are 
specifically designated by this section as requiring review. In making its review, the Zoning 
Administrator, Development Review Board, and Planning Commission shall be guided by the 
standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council. The application shall be 
approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood; 
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City; 
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; 
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved drawings. 
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding  
fifty-five (55) feet that exceed the height limit in the General Plan. in height or where required by 
express General Plan provisions. 
 
27.08.085 PLANNING APPROVAL EXPIRATION. 
Final approval of a planning application shall expire two years from the date of approval, with the 
following exceptions: 
(a) A completed building permit application is filed before the expiration date and a building 
permit is issued prior to or within six months after the two year expiration date. 
(b) The property within two years has been used in conformance with the final order.

--- page 22 ---
(c) Approvals granted to the City of San Mateo or the Redevelopment Agency of San Mateo 
shall be in force and effect for such time period as funds are budgeted in whole or in part for the 
project by the City or Agency. 
(d) Projects with associated subdivision maps that remain in effect or have been extended 
by mandate of the state Subdivision Map Act or San Mateo Municipal Code section 
26.48.135, 26.48.140, or 26.56.087. Those planning approvals remain effective for the term of the 
subdivision map approval, if required by State law. 
(e)(d) Projects for which an extension has been obtained in accordance with Section 
27.08.087 below. 
 
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION. 
The following extensions to planning approvals are available: 
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that 
extension of a planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator shall approve an 
extension if they find that the project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general 
plan regulations and conditions. 
(b) City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one up to two extensions of a 
planning approval, each for up to two years, subject to the following provisions: 
(1) Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant 
must submit the application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the 
application fee and provide the reason(s) for the extension request. 
(2) Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must 
find all of the following: 
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and 
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; 
and 
(C) The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an 
increase in severity of previously identified environmental impacts. 
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the 
neighborhood by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be 
provided to the Planning Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning 
Administrator's decision. 
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning 
Commission within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with 
the Planning Division and payment of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date 
of a planning approval is tolled until a final action is taken. The provisions of Municipal 
Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision maps.

--- page 23 ---
27.08.035 COMPLETION OF PLANNING APPLICATION. 
(a) A planning application is determined to be complete when all documents, reports, data, 
maps, fees, and other information prescribed in Section 27.08.010 are submitted and are 
determined to be adequate to allow the approval body to determine if the required findings can be 
made.  
(a)(b) For any application determined to be incomplete, an applicant may appeal the 
incompleteness determination to the Community Development Director Planning Commission 
within 14 days of the date of the incomplete letter.. Any appeal shall be submitted in writing, and be 
accompanied by payment of the filing fee. Pursuant to California Government Code Section 65943, 
the Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the appeal not later than 60 
calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s written appeal. The appeal process shall toll any 
timing requirements to resubmit incomplete application materials.  
(b) The Zoning Administrator may require a new planning application for a project initially 
determined to be complete if one or more of the following occurs: 
(1) The project is significantly revised; 
(2) New information or material germane to the project is brought to light, or 
becomes available, or is required to assess a change, or revision in the proposed project 
and the information affects the ability of the approval body to make the required findings. 
(3) City policies, or standards are adopted which require substantial revisions in the 
project. 
(c) If the Zoning Administrator finds that a new planning application is required, and no 
public hearing has been held on the project, then the application shall be considered withdrawn 
without prejudice. If a public hearing has been held, the approval body may accept the withdrawal 
with or without prejudice. Any unspent fees from the original application shall be applied to any 
new application or refunded, at the applicant's request. 
(d)(c) The Zoning Administrator may close out an application, if information is requested in 
writing by the Zoning Administrator, and the information has not been submitted to the Zoning 
Administrator or the action has not occurred within 120 days. ApplicationsFiles which are closed 
out are considered to be actions without prejudicewithdrawn and any unspent fees from the 
application will be refunded. , thereby enabling an immediate re-application for a project of the 
same, or similar nature by any applicant. The re-application shall be subject to all current fees and 
codes. An applicant for a housing development project, as defined in California Government Code 
Section 65905.5(b)(3) shall follow timelines and provisions outlined in Housing development 
applications subject to California Government Code Section 65941.1 to maintain preliminary

--- page 24 ---
application eligibility.65943##### shall follow timelines outlined in that section to maintain 
eligibility.  
(e)(d) The Zoning Administrator's action may be appealed to the Planning Commission 
within ten (10) days of the Zoning Administrator's action closing out an application, or of 
determining that a new planning application is required. 
 
27.16.050 AFFORDABLE HOUSING. 
To implement the affordable housing goals and policies in the General Plan, the City 
Council adopted the Below Market Rate (BMR) Program. Specific requirements for the development 
of affordable units under the BMR Program, including the alternative compliance option of 
providing offsite affordable units and other proposed alternatives,  are regulated by resolution 
adopted by the City Council.  
 
The Section below is a new section to be added to the Zoning Code in Chapter 27.02. 
27.02.230 RESIDENTIAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS. 
 
a. Within a 1/2 mile radius of a Caltrain Station as shown on the General Plan Land Use 
Map, a mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes 
five or more residential units shall comply with the following minimum residential 
densities if the development project is within one of the following General Plan Land 
Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one General Plan Land Use 
Designations, the lowest density requirement applies. 
 
i. Mixed-Use Low and Mixed-Use Medium I – 30 dwelling units per acre 
ii. Mixed-Use Medum II and Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre 
 
b. A mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes five or 
more residential units outside of a TOD area are required to comply with minimum 
residential densities when the development project is within one of the following 
General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one 
General Plan Land Use Designations, the lowest density requirement applies. 
 
i. Mixed-Use Low – 10 dwelling units per acre 
ii. Mixed-Use Medium I – 15 dwelling units per acre 
iii. Mixed-Use Medum II – 30 dwelling units per acre 
iv. Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre

--- page 25 ---
c. The City Council may consider a request to reduce the required minimum 
residential density in a mixed-use development project with a residential 
component for a project that provides a greater percentage of affordable housing 
units than required by Section 27.16.050 Affordable Housing or by providing public 
community benefits.

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
REVISING THE CITY’S BELOW MARKET-RATE HOUSING PROGRAM TO ALLOW FOR ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE 
OPTIONS TO ONSITE CONSTRUCTION OF AFFORDABLE UNITS
WHEREAS, the current BMR Program requires that residential projects consisting of 11 units provide 15 percent 
of the number of units affordable to lower-income households (for rental) and 15 percent of the number of units 
affordable to moderate-income households (for for-sale) onsite; and
WHEREAS, the BMR Program Guidelines, adopted and amended from time to time via City Council Resolution, 
allow for certain alternatives to the baseline requirement, including offsite construction of affordable units, but only if 
the applicant demonstrates via an economic analysis that onsite construction is infeasible; and
WHEREAS, the City adopted its 2023-2031 Housing Element on May 20, 2024, and it was subsequently certified 
by the California Department of Housing and Community Development Department on July 23, 2024; and
WHEREAS, Policy H.1.3 in the Housing Element requires the City to revise the BMR Program to allow for 
alternative compliance options for required onsite affordable dwelling units in housing development projects; and 
WHEREAS, through improvements to its BMR Program, the City wishes to provide greater flexibility to 
developers to incentivize the production of affordable units. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that: 
1.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, updating the 
provisions of the BMR Program Guidelines to allow for the alternative compliance options of offsite construction 
of affordable units or a developer-proposed alternative to allow for alternatives in complying with the 
inclusionary housing requirements (“Project”) is exempt from further environmental review because the Project 
is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use designations adopted as part of General Plan 
2040 for which an EIR was certified by the City Council on March 18, 2024.  The Project is also consistent with 
the implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant to certain mandates in 
state law.  There are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project or the sites; there are no project 
specific impacts that the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially 
significant off-site and cumulative impacts that the general plan EIR failed to evaluate; and there is no 
substantial new information which results in more severe impacts than anticipated by the general plan EIR.
2.
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of 
this Resolution amending the City’s BMR Program is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with 
certainty that this action will not have a significant impact on the environment. 
3.
The amendments to the BMR Program Guidelines, as shown in Exhibit A, to allow for the alternative compliance 
options of offsite construction of affordable units or a developer-proposed alternative, are approved.

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BELOW MARKET RATE (INCLUSIONARY) PROGRAM
I.
INTENT
It is the intent of this resolution to establish requirements for the designation of housing units for 
moderate, lower, and very low income households in development projects containing residential 
dwelling units.
II.
DEFINITIONS
Whenever the following terms are used in this resolution, they shall have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affordable Housing” means affordable ownership housing or affordable rental housing. 
Affordable ownership housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not 
exceed one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the area median income (low or moderate 
income households).
Affordable rental housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not exceed 
eighty percent (80%) of the area median income (very low or lower-income households).
(b)
“Applicant” means any person, firm, partnership, association, or any other entity who 
submits the planning application and/or building permit for the construction of new 
dwelling units.
(c)
“Area Median Income” means the median household income for San Mateo County as 
published annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development
(d)
“Below Market Rate (BMR) Unit” means an affordable housing unit.
(e)
“Density Bonus” means entitlement to build additional residential units above the maximum 
number of units permitted pursuant to the existing General Plan, applicable specific plan 
and/or zoning designation.
(f)
“Lower Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in Health 
and Safety Code section 50079 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by the 
California Department of Housing and Community Development, as adjusted for household 
size.
(g)
“Market Rate Unit” means a dwelling unit where the rental rate or sales price is not restricted by 
this resolution.

--- page 28 ---
(h)
“Moderate Income” means households means households whose income does not exceed that 
as defined in Health and Safety Code section 50093 for the County of San Mateo as published 
annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development.
(i)
“Occupancy Standards” means the minimum household size upon which qualification 
and pricing for BMR units is based.
(j)
“Ownership Units” means housing units offered for sale including, but not limited to, 
single family homes, condominiums, other common interest developments and mutual 
housing associations.
(k)
“Rental Units” means housing units offered for lease or rent.
(l)
“Very-low Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in 
Health and Safety Code section 50105 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by 
the California Department of Housing and Community Development
III.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS – GENERAL
(a)
Applicability. The requirements of this program shall apply to all development projects that 
include five (5) or more residential units or parcels which involve:
i.
New construction of rental or ownership housing units, including mixed use 
developments and addition of units to existing projects, or
ii.
Subdivision of property for single family or duplex housing development, or
iii.
Conversion of rental apartments to condominium or other common interest 
ownership under Chapter 26.65 of the Municipal Code.
iv.
Conversion of nonresidential use to residential units.
(b)
Number of BMR Units Required. For residential development projects of eleven (11) or 
more units, the number of BMR units must be constructed as follows:
i.
Ownership Units
a.
Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by and 
shall be affordable to Moderate Income households.
ii.
Rental Units
a. Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by 
and shall be affordable to Lower Income households.
In determining the number of BMR units required, any decimal fraction .5 or above shall be 
rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Fees in-lieu of constructing required BMR units shall not be allowed except for the provisions 
for fractional units defined below.

--- page 29 ---
(c)
Fractional Unit Fees. In the following situations a fractional fee will be collected 
instead of construction of a BMR unit:
i.
For residential development projects consisting of 5-10 units or parcels, or
ii.
When the calculation of the BMR units in development projects of 11 or more units or 
parcels results in a fractional unit less than .5.
In either scenario, applicant has the option to provide an additional BMR unit instead of the fee.
The fractional fee will be established based on the typical cost to develop a BMR unit and will 
be adopted by resolution by the City Council on an annual basis. The fee will be collected at the 
time the building permit is issued and shall be deposited into the City Housing fund.
(d)
Occupancy Standards. Priority for occupancy shall be for households meeting the following 
size requirements.
1 bedroom units
-
no restriction
2 bedroom units
-
Minimum two person occupancy
3 bedroom units
-
Minimum three person occupancy Other 
households for such units will be on a lower priority.
IV.
OWNERSHIP UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Price of Units. The maximum sales price of BMR units shall be limited to a price that is 
affordable to a household earning between 100-110% of area median income, adjusted for 
household size, with payments not to exceed between 30-35 percent of the gross monthly 
income, less insurance and property taxes and homeowners association dues. The City Council 
at least once per year shall adopt by resolution maximum allowable sales prices, adjusted by 
unit size, within the ranges established above and based on prevailing interest rates and prior 
experience in maintaining an adequate sized list of qualifying buyers. The sales prices for BMR 
units shall be established at the time of building permit issuance for each project.
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the costs of care 
shall be separate from housing costs, and shall not be included in the pricing formula.
(b)
Sales Restrictions. BMR units shall be sold or resold only to eligible moderate or lower-income 
households. The City, or its designees, shall determine the eligibility of such households. A 
deed restriction, covenant, and/or other instrument enforceable by the City, limiting the resale of 
such units to eligible households shall be recorded in the chain of title of all BMR units. The 
duration of such resale restrictions shall be 45 years, and shall be reapplied and recorded upon 
each resale of the unit.

--- page 30 ---
The deed restriction shall provide that the City have the first right of refusal to purchase the unit. 
The City’s option to purchase may be assigned to a qualifying moderate or lower income 
household.
The City or its designee shall be responsible for selection and qualification of buyers in accord 
with its marketing polices regulating affordable housing. The seller shall pay costs associated 
with buyer selection, qualification and unit sales.
(c)
Unit Appreciation. Each unit offered for resale will be subject to resale restrictions in which 
the effective sales price (sales price less City subsidy) will be computed to equal the average 
increase in moderate income for the San Francisco MSA during the period of ownership.
(d)
Occupancy Restrictions. Units shall only be occupied by their owners. Renting, leasing, 
subleasing or subletting shall not be permitted for more than two months in any year. Violation 
of these occupancy restrictions will be grounds for termination of the occupancy.
V.
RENTAL UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Rental Rates.
The monthly rent to be charged for a BMR unit in a rental project shall not 
exceed 30% percent of the gross monthly income for households earning between 50-70 
percent or less of area median income, adjusted for household size. The City Council shall at 
least once per year adopt by resolution maximum allowable rental rates, adjusted by unit size, 
within the ranges established above and based on prior experience in maintaining a list of 
qualifying renters. In no event shall the annual rent increase exceed 4% from the prior year. 
The surplus median income increase in a capped year can be carried over and combined in the 
following years, as long as the 4% cap per year is maintained.
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the cost of care 
shall be separate from housing costs and shall not be included in the rental formula.
(b)
Move-in Costs.
Total costs and security deposits to occupy a unit shall be limited to first 
and last month’s rent, plus a cleaning deposit not to exceed one month’s rent.
(c)
Rental Restriction.
Occupancy of BMR rental units and qualification of eligible lower-
income tenants shall be the responsibility of the project owner or an authorized agent of the 
owner. Annual leases shall be offered to tenants of BMR units. Income qualifications of the 
tenants shall be verified upon annual lease renewal. If a tenant’s income rises above the 90% 
area median income for a Lower Income Unit or above 60% area median income for a Very 
Low Income Unit, the unit shall become a market rate unit and the next comparable unit available 
will become a BMR unit, unless the tenant chooses to vacate the unit.

--- page 31 ---
Each project owner shall submit an annual report to the City identifying for each BMR unit the 
monthly rent, vacancy information for the prior year, income and income verification for 
tenants, and other information as required by the City.
The rental restrictions shall be in force for the life of the building.
(d)
Change in Tenure from Existing BMR Rental Units to Ownership. In the event the owner of 
any development that contains BMR Rental Units chooses to offer those units for sale after the 
initial occupancy of the BMR units as rentals, a new BMR agreement shall be executed and 
recorded. The agreement shall describe the number, location and sales prices of the BMR units 
offered for sale. The BMR Ownership units shall be affordable to moderate income households 
in accordance with the BMR program provisions in place, unless the project utilized the State 
Density Bonus, in which case the sales prices shall be affordable to the household income levels 
identified in the original BMR agreement at the sales prices for those household income levels 
adopted by City Council resolution on an annual basis.
If the change in tenure is part of a condominium conversion, all provisions of Chapter 26.65 of 
the Municipal Code shall be followed.
If the change in tenure is not associated with a condominium conversion, the BMR Rental Unit 
tenants must be adequately noticed and offered relocation assistance as follows:
i.
Each of the BMR tenants shall receive written notification by registered mail from the 
property owner of the intention to sell at least one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to 
termination of tenancy. This notification shall include the information regarding relocation, 
right to purchase, and lease benefits available.
ii.
Each of the BMR tenants shall be given notice by the property owner of an exclusive right to 
contract for the purchase of his or her respective unit upon terms and conditions of the BMR 
program as it pertains to Ownership Units. This right shall run for a period of not less than 
ninety
(90) days from the date of the initial notification of termination of tenancy.
iii.
Relocation assistance shall be given to all BMR tenants who do not exercise their 
right to purchase as follows:
a. A relocation allowance equal to three month's rent at the tenant's rate in effect at the 
time the notice of termination of tenancy is filed shall be paid to the eligible tenant 
within twenty (20) days after the tenant notifies the owner of his intention to vacate 
the unit or the owner notifies the tenant to vacate the unit.
b. The applicant shall provide a list of active comparable rental units in San Mateo 
County at least once each month beginning from the initial notification of termination 
of tenancy.

--- page 32 ---
c. In projects that consist of twenty-five (25) or more BMR Rental Units, the applicant 
shall provide a relocation specialist to assist displaced tenants in finding new 
housing.
VI.
SUBDIVISIONS
A subdivider of land for single family or duplex development resulting in eleven (11) or more parcels 
shall provide BMR units equivalent to at least fifteen percent (15%) of the density permitted on the 
subdivided lots.
VII.
UNIT SIZE, TYPE AND DESIGN
BMR units shall:
(a)
Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as market 
rate units within the project, including landscaping;
(b)
Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City;
(c)
Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units;
(d)
Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units,
(e)
Generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units, or
They may be up to 10% smaller than market units if they meet the following minimum sizes:
Unit Type
Regular Units
Senior Units
studio units
450 square feet
405 square feet
one bedroom units
600 square feet
507 square feet
two bedroom units
900 square feet
602 square feet
three bedroom units
1100 square feet
950 square feet
(f)
Have access to all on-site amenities; and
(g)
In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase.
(h)
Interior unit amenities such as floor covering, appliance and other fixtures, shall be specified in 
the BMR agreement executed prior to issuance of building permit and may differ from market 
rate units, but must at a minimum be UL or AGA listed.

--- page 33 ---
VIII.
ALTERNATIVES
An applicant may propose an alternate means of compliance with the BMR program subject to the 
following provisions:
(a)
Variation of the bedroom count of BMR Units. Based on Council adoption of community 
priorities, an applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in BMR units than a straight pro 
rata of the Market Rate Units as long as the total bedroom count is the same or more, and the 
total number of BMR units equal 10% or more of the project. For example, the City may accept 
fewer BMR units in exchange for those with more bedrooms, or conversely it may agree to more 
BMR units that have smaller bedroom counts. The Council will adopt its community priorities 
by resolution annually at the same time it adopts the BMR rental and sales prices.
(b)
Size of BMR units. In projects where the Market Rate Units all exceed 2000 square feet, the 
BMR units may be up to 20% smaller than the Market Rate Units.
(c)
Off Site Construction. Off-site construction shall be allowed only if the applicant 
demonstrates, and the City finds during the planning approval process, that on-site 
construction is infeasible. In order to substantiate infeasibility, the applicant must provide an 
economic analysis comparing the construction of units onsite and offsite. If allowed, off-site 
units shall be constructed within the City of San Mateo and shall be constructed and occupied 
prior to occupancy of the development project. In order to approve the Off-Site Construction 
alternative, the City Council must make the following findings:
i.
The number of affordable units provided by the Off-Site Construction alternative equals or 
exceeds that required under the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; and 
ii.
The level of affordability provided by the Off-Site Construction alternative is the same or 
lower as that required the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; and 
iii.
The alternative is consistent with the General Plan and Housing Element and the provisions of 
these Guidelines; and 
iv.
Financing or a viable financing plan, which may include public funding, is in place for the 
off-site BMR units;  and 
v.
The off-site location is suitable for the proposed BMR Units and furthers the goals of 
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing, consistent the Housing Element; and
vi.
The off-site BMR units will be available for occupancy prior to or concurrently with 
development of the main project. If the main development project is phased, the off-site BMR 
units comply with Section VII (g) of these Guidelines. 
(d)
Applicant-Proposed Alternative. An applicant may propose other ways to comply with the on-site 
BMR requirement in Section III of these Guidelines if City Council determines, based on substantial 
evidence provided by the applicant, that it will provide as many or more BMR units at the same or 
lower income levels, or will otherwise provide greater public benefit than that provided under the 
on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines. The proposed alternative compliance option 
must be identified in an Affordable Housing Plan that is submitted as part of the Planning 
Application. A Planning Application shall not be deemed complete until the Affordable Housing 
Plan is approved. The applicant shall bear all costs associated with demonstrating that the

--- page 34 ---
compliance option meets the BMR requirements. In order to approve the Applicant-Proposed 
Alternative, the City Council must make the following findings:
i.
The number of affordable units provided by the Applicant-Proposed Alternative equals or 
exceeds that required by the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; 
ii.
The level of affordability provided by each of the BMR units meets the affordability threshold or 
lower affordability threshold(s) as required under the on-site requirement in Section III of these 
Guidelines;
iii.
If the Applicant-Proposed Alternative does not meet these requirements in (i) and (ii), it will 
provide greater public benefit than that provided under the on-site requirement in Section III of 
these Guidelines; 
iv.
Financing or a viable financing plan, which may include public funding, is in place for the 
Applicant-Proposed Alternative; and
(c)v.
The Applicant-Proposed Alternative is consistent with the General Plan and Housing Element 
and the provisions of this Guidelines.
(d)(e) Agreement with City for Financing. If the City or Redevelopment Agency enters into a 
financing agreement with the applicant, the parties may agree to alter the requirements of 
Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above.
(e)(f)
Significant Number of Affordable Units. If an applicant exceeds the maximum percentage 
of affordable units set forth in the state density bonus law for low or very low income rental 
or ownership units or moderate income ownership units, the City will consider an applicant’s 
request to alter the requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in 
connection with its review of the planning application for the project and may reject or accept 
the request in its sole discretion.
(f)(g)
Specialized Services. If a project will include units for residents requiring specialized services 
(such as health care for senior residents), the City will consider an applicant’s request to alter the 
requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in connection with its review of 
the planning application for the project and may reject or accept the request in its sole discretion.

--- page 35 ---
IX ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Only households qualifying as very low, lower or moderate income households shall be eligible to 
occupy BMR units. Preference shall be given to persons residing or working within San Mateo. 
Eligibility shall be determined in conjunction with policies adopted by City Council resolution.
X.
ADMINISTRATION
(a)
Responsibilities. The City or its designee shall be responsible for administering ownership 
BMR units. The project owner shall be responsible for administering BMR rental units.
The City’s Community Development Director or a designee shall be responsible for 
administration of the BMR program, including, but not limited to, determinations regarding 
calculation of the number of BMR units required, pricing, design, review of feasibility analyses, 
qualification of tenants, and long- term program compliance. The City may prepare 
administrative guidelines to further clarify program requirements.
(b)
Application Process. At the time of filing a planning application for a development project 
subject to the BMR program, the applicant shall include the proposed number of BMR units, 
including their size and number of bedrooms.
(c)
BMR Agreement. Prior to the issuance of a building permit the applicant shall enter into a 
BMR Agreement with the City which will be recorded against the property and shall include the 
following:
1.
The number of BMR units and their location;
2.
The unit sizes and the number of bedrooms per dwelling unit;
3.
The affordability level and initial rent or sales price;
4.
The interior unit amenities which would differ from market-rate units, including, but 
not limited to, floor coverings, countertops, appliances, plumbing and electrical 
fixtures; and
5.
The schedule for production of BMR units in phased developments.
XI.
DENSITY BONUSES FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
(a)
Bonus for Affordable Units.
Provision of the BMR units entitle an applicant to request 
a density bonus in accordance with Government Code section 65915.
(b)
Additional Incentives. In addition to any density bonus, applicant may request additional 
incentive(s) or concession(s) in accordance with Government

--- page 36 ---
Code section 65915 and San Mateo’s Density Bonus Ordinance at Section
27.16.060 of the Municipal Code.
The additional incentive(s) or concession(s) to be provided shall be determined by the City at the 
time of the application approval in accordance with Government Code section 65915 and the City’s 
Density Bonus Ordinance. The City will require information from the applicant to determine the 
necessary incentive or concession, or may hire a consultant to prepare an analysis at the expense of 
the applicant.
The following describes the density bonus amount and number of incentives that are allowed 
by providing the required affordable units in the BMR program.
Tenure
Percent 
Affordable
Income 
Target
Density 
Bonus
Allowed
Developer 
Incentives
Ownership
15%
Moderate
10%
1
Rental
15%
Lower
27.5%
1
Applicant may provide any combination of additional affordable units and/or deeper 
affordability which may be eligible for a higher density bonus and/or more incentives or 
concessions based on the provisions of State Density Bonus law and the City’s Density Bonus 
Ordinance as long as the City’s minimum affordability requirements are met. However, the City 
will not accept Very Low units in an ownership project unless a reserve is established that can be 
utilized by lower income owners to fully pay for future expenses related to increases in 
homeowners’ association dues or other assessments, such that the overall housing cost of 
homeownership is maintained at an affordable level.
(c)
BMR Program Applicable. The affordable units provided under the provisions of the Density 
Bonus Ordinance shall comply with all requirements of the BMR program.
Rev February 3, 2020

--- page 37 ---
Jurisdiction
In-Lieu Fee
Land Dedication
Off-Site Units
Conversion of existing units to 
affordable
Clustering
Credits
Rental Units 
Preservation and Funding
Combination of Methods
Misc. Alternatives
Developer May Propose An 
Alternative 
East Palo Alto
Yes
Yes
Yes
Foster City
Yes
Yes
Yes
On-site clustering of BMR units
Fremont
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Preservation of Affordable Units 
at Risk of Loss
Hayward
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Lafayette
Yes
Yes
For Rent Alternatives to Fees or 
Sales
Millbrae
Yes, with restrictions
Yes
Yes
Mountain View
Yes
Yes
Yes
Newark
Yes (this is the default req't)
Yes
Palo Alto
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Affordable rental units in a 
residential ownership project or 
residential rental project
Mixed Use Projects
Redwood City
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
San Bruno
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Provision of Rental Units in place 
of For-Sale Units
Alternative Percentages and 
Income Levels of Affordable 
Units
Increase Total Number of 
Affordable housing Bedrooms
Yes
San Jose
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Partnership of Clustered Units
Credits and Transfers
Mixed Compliance
Yes
HUD Restricted Units
Yes
Santa Clara County
Yes
Yes
Yes
Santa Rosa
Yes
Yes
Yes
Credit for Additional Affordable 
Units
Preservation of at-risk housing
Impaction Determination
Yes- "Innovation Encouraged"
South San Francisco
Yes
Yes
Yes
Funding of Affordable Housing 
Project
Construction of ADUs
Yes
Sunnyvale
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes, with partnership
Yes
Gray box indicates that the jurisdication does not allow for, or does not mention, that the alternative is permitted. If the jurisdiction allows developer to propose an alternative, this alternative may be allowed.
Comparison of Alternative Compliance Methods: Select Bay Area Jurisdictions

--- page 38 ---
1 of 9
Implementation of Housing 
Element Policies:
Zoning Code Amendments and 
Update of the Below Market Rate 
(Inclusionary) Program
Planning Commission 
May 13, 2025
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
Rachel Horst, Housing & Neighborhood Services 
Manager

--- page 39 ---
2 of 17
San Mateo Housing Element (2023-2031)
• Adopted on May 20, 2024, certified by the State 
Housing and Community Development Department 
(HCD) on July 23, 2024
• Five goals to support compliance with state law and to 
achieve the City’s RHNA – Supporting Production, 
Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively 
Furthering Fair Housing
• Includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions
• Numerous Housing Element policies and programs that 
require Zoning Code Amendments and policy 
amendments

--- page 40 ---
3 of 17
Housing Element Implementation
Zoning Code Amendments Completed
Amended the Zoning Code to allow residential projects with up to 25 units to be 
approved administratively. (Policy H1.6) – November 2023
Adopted Objective Design Standards for multi-family residential projects and 
mixed-use projects with a residential component. (Policy H1.8) – November 2023
Amended the Zoning Code to establish a By-Right designation for housing sites 
reused from prior Housing Elements for housing projects that propose a 
minimum of 20% affordable units. Zoning for these sites must be at least 30 
units/acre to meet default density requirements for lower-income households 
per Gov. Code Section 65583.2(c). (Policy H1.10) – July 2024
Amended the Zoning Code to: implement Housing Element Implementation 
Actions/Programs (variety) and State Law Compliance; increase Zoning 
Administrator threshold for residential project approval to 99 units; code sections 
for General Plan and Measure T consistency (Variety of Policies) – April 2025

--- page 41 ---
4 of 17
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments
I.
Streamlining the Development 
Review Process (Policy H1.6) 
II.
Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use 
Residential Development Projects 
(Policy H1.9)
III. Updates to City Below Market-
Rate (Inclusionary) Program 
(Policy H1.3)

--- page 42 ---
5 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Establish an appeals process for a project ‘incomplete’ determination subject 
to the review and determination of the Planning Commission within a 
designated timeline (Policy H1.6) (HE Commitment) (Govt Code)
• Align with the Permit Streamlining Act (Govt Code Section 65943)
• An appeal for an incomplete determination shall be submitted within 
14 days. 
 
Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the 
appeal not later than 60 calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s 
written appeal.

--- page 43 ---
6 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Amend the zoning code to allow the Zoning Administrator to approve up to 
two extensions, each for up to two years (currently up to one extension for 
up to two years is allowed) (Policy H1.6)
• Propose to remove language that required automatic extension of the 
Planning Application Approval when associated tentative subdivision map 
is extended
• In total, building permit issuance would be required 6.5 years from 
Planning Application approval with initial approval and all extensions

--- page 44 ---
7 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Modify the requirement for City Council approval of development projects 
over 55 feet in height to only require City Council approval of projects when 
they exceed the building height limit specified in General Plan 2040 (Policy 
H1.6)
• “Stories” will be further defined with a numeric height as part of the 
Comprehensive Zoning Update

--- page 45 ---
8 of 17
II. Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use Residential 
Development Projects (Policy H1.9)
Establish minimum densities for mixed-use residential projects based on 
General Plan 2040 mixed-use land use designations. The recommended 
densities vary based on the intensity of the mixed-use land use designation 
and whether the project area is within ½ mile of a Caltrain station. (Policy H1.9) 
(HE Commitment).
Within ½ Mile from Caltrain Stop 
 
Outside of ½ Mile from Caltrain Stop 
•
Densities will be further studied during the Comprehensive Zoning Update project
Mixed-Use Low and 
Mixed-Use Medium I 
30 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medum II 
and Mixed-Use High 
50 du/ac
Mixed-Use Low
10 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medium I 
15 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medum II 
30 du/ac
Mixed-Use High 
50 du/ac

--- page 46 ---
9 of 17
II. Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use Residential 
Development Projects (Policy H1.9)

--- page 47 ---
10 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Goal of Policy H1.3 is to increase affordable housing production by allowing more 
compliance options in the City’s Below Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Housing Program and 
creating incentives through the Density Bonus/Community Benefits Program
• Amendments to BMR Program will provide alternatives to the on-site requirement 
(15% affordable units at lower-income (rental) or moderate-income (for-sale))
• Providing alternatives is supported by state law (Govt. Code 65850(g)) 
• Current alternative in City’s BMR Program Guidelines is limited to projects 
where onsite is “economically infeasible”

--- page 48 ---
11 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Comprehensive BMR Program revision in 2026 will allow for additional analysis and 
further additions/amendments to City’s BMR Policy
Staff researched alternatives used in other jurisdictions – most common include:
• In-Lieu Fees – developer pays fee instead of constructing affordable units
• Land Dedication – developer provides land (to City or development partner) for offsite 
affordable unit construction
• Off-Site Construction – developer builds affordable units offsite
• Acquisition and Rehabilitation (of Affordable Units) – developer acquires/rehabs and 
deed-restricts housing occupied by lower-income households
• Developer-Proposed Alternative – varies

--- page 49 ---
12 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Staff recommend an Off-Site Construction Option and Developer-Proposed Alternative 
Option
1. Off-Site Construction Option 
Required City Council findings include:
•
Meeting/exceeding affordable unit 
requirement
•
Consistency with the General Plan and 
Housing Element
•
Viable financing
•
Meeting AFFH objectives
•
Concurrent occupancy
2. Developer-Proposed Alternative
Required City Council findings include: 
•
Exceeding affordable housing requirement 
•
Consistency with General Plan and Housing 
Element
•
Viable financing
•
Providing greater public benefit than onsite

--- page 50 ---
13 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Code and policy amendments to BMR program to implement offsite construction and 
developer-proposed alternatives

--- page 51 ---
14 of 17
Housing Element Implementation 
Future Zoning Code Amendments
•
Amend the City’s ADU Ordinance (Chapter 27.19) to align with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by HCD. (Policy 
H1.4)
•
Evaluate updates to Zoning Code Standards to support housing production 
including excluding covered parking and other elements as needed from 
Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation for housing projects with affordable units 
(Policy H1.7) 
•
Amend the Zoning Code to reduce off-street parking requirements for 
residential units and other parking related requirements and make 
recommendations to reduce or eliminate any other parking related 
requirements identified as a constraint. (Policy H1.7)

--- page 52 ---
15 of 17
CEQA Evaluation & Public Comments
• Proposed to be Categorically Exempt per CEQA Guidelines Section 
15183, Projects Consistent With A Community Plan Or Zoning
• Public Notices posted to Newspaper, Planning eNewsletters, and the 
Planning Division “What’s Happening” webpage
• No public comments received (to-date)

--- page 53 ---
16 of 17
Staff Recommendations
• Recommend that the City Council adopt an Ordinance amending the 
Zoning Code (Title 27) to:
• Address affordable housing compliance options;
• Development of Off-site Units
• Developer-Proposed Alternative
• Planning application procedures; and 
• Minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects.
• Recommend that the City Council approve a Resolution to update the 
City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program.

--- page 54 ---
17 of 17
Thank you
Rachel Horst
Housing & Neighborhood Services Manager 
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
Steve Golden
Principal Planner, Planning Division
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org