--- page 1 ---
When No ID Means No Internet:
Age Verification and the Right to
Access Information
OCTOBER 8, 2026
eff.org
This post was co-authored by Sheila B. Lalwani, a doctorate student and
recent COMPASS Fellow hosted by EFF.
Age verification proposals are often presented as a simple tradeoff: sacrifice a
little privacy to better safeguard children online. But that framing overlooks a
more fundamental question. What happens to people who cannot verify their
age at all? This is particularly a problem when users are required to prove their
age with identity documents.
Age-related restrictions are developing quickly around the world. While they
differ radically across jurisdictions, in the past year, we’ve witnessed a sharp
uptick toward mandatory age assurance for social media access but also for
other high-risk digital services.
For example:
In late 2025, Australia became the first country to implement a minimum
age requirement for prohibiting children under age 16 from creating or
holding social media accounts. 
India passed the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act that includes
mandatory verifiable parental consent and has undertaken ongoing
discussions for social media restriction.
The United Kingdom passed the Online Safety Act requiring age verification
across a swath of services hosting content considered harmful to users
under 18. More than half the states across the U.S. have enacted age
verification laws.

--- page 2 ---
An EU Commission’s expert report recommends a ban on social media
access for users under 13. It also recommends mandatory age verification
for platforms to ensure that users are ‘age appropriate.’ 
The Access Problem 
Age verification laws that are predicated on the necessity of users possessing a
current passport, driver’s license, credit card, or similar documents proving
their identity exclude critical sections of populations.  And this problem is
global in nature: Millions of people lack government-issued identification or
encounter regular challenges to obtaining or updating it. 
Roughly 15 million adult U.S. citizens lack a driver’s license, and a further 2.6
million lack any government photo ID; leaving large groups blocked from
online content or services. The UK has a similar predicament: proof-of-age
checks are often reliant on passports, driver’s licenses, or other recognized
alternatives, which can pose unique challenges to people without these
documents.
Much of the advocacy around age verification discusses the privacy harms of
age verification. Yet these measures also threaten something more
fundamental: equal access to information and the ability to exercise the right to
freedom of expression. 
Unfortunately, age verification systems foster unequal access to information
and provide an asymmetric solution to find essential information, build
community, and weigh in on public discourse. As governments and companies
increasingly require users to prove their age before accessing online services,
these individuals risk being excluded from large parts of the internet
altogether. 
Effects on Global Majority Countries 
Age verification laws reshape who can speak, who can access information, and
who gets excluded from the digital public sphere. In other words, age
verification is not a neutral safety measure: it presents a structural barrier to
disproportionately exclude certain groups—particularly those in the global
majority—and alters the architecture of global online expression. Some of these
groups are already marginalized offline, and age verification extends that
exclusion into digital spaces.

--- page 3 ---
For instance, 850 million people globally do not have ID. Most of these
individuals exist in primarily low and middle income countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa and South Asia. The World Bank points out that many are members of
marginalized groups and more than half of those lacking access to identity
documentation also have children whose births have not been registered.
Women are particularly vulnerable and are 8% less likely than men to have an
ID. Other vulnerable groups, such as adults in low income countries, are less
likely to have an ID when they fall below 25 years, as are those with a primary
school education or less or those in rural areas. 
A policy paper from EDRi points out that age verification laws provide quick
tech solutions but overlook longstanding structural challenges and undermine
the universality of the internet. The analysis finds that age verification laws
have serious human rights implications and ironically harm the very
individuals they deem to protect. Moreover, these laws depend on the collection
of harmful mass data that human rights organizations, including EFF, is
fighting against—and has for decades. 
For example:
In Morocco, a push to restrict children’s access would ban under-13s from
creating accounts on gaming platforms. This could potentially create
challenges for those with IDs that have incomplete information concerning
the year of birth. In addition, this push would also impact those who
attempt to leave Morocco.
In Egypt, the lack of ID cards has created challenges for minority groups
such as the Baha’i.
Stateless individuals would also struggle under age verification laws. The
Rohingya, the world’s largest population of stateless people, often lack
IDs. 
Kuwait’s Bidoon population also lacks proper identification materials.
According to Amnesty International, this leads many to rely on standard
civil identity cards, which can be restrictive.  
Nigeria launched a national program to provide ID cards to its population in
2007. Since then, 64.4 million have registered, but that represents just over
30% of the national population.
The Kafala system, a practice in several countries across the Middle East,
also introduces challenges for age verification laws. Under this legal
framework, migrant workers’ legal residency and employment status are
bound to a specific employer. This potentially leaves stateless persons or
migrant workers vulnerable to forced labor and restricted movements. 
No ID, No Access

--- page 4 ---
Victory! Court Rejects Government
Effort to Dismiss Social Media
Surveillance Lawsuit
Age verification laws are less about confirming the age of a user and more
about creating barriers to online participation that many people cannot reliably
scale. The net result is reduced access, more data collection, and an increased
chance of unequal or mistaken exclusion from accessing information online. 
Nobody doubts the importance of protecting children online. While proponents
assert that age verification laws protect minors from harmful material, online
harassment, and digital addiction, these laws are not the solution. They subvert
fundamental freedom of expression rights and pose significant privacy risks.  
EFF has long warned against age-gating the internet. Age verification
technology itself is often inaccurate and privacy-invasive, and as more
countries considering implementing ID-based checks, the risks move beyond
censorship and surveillance toward excluding some people entirely. That’s why
we’re working with groups in the U.S. and around the world to push back
against these laws, and why we hope you join our effort.
For more information on how to fight back against dangerous age verification laws,
visit our resource hub at eff.org/age
TAGS:
AGE VERIFICATION
UK
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 5 ---
PRESS RELEASE | OCTOBER 2, 2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY TORI NOBLE | SEPTEMBER 30, 2026
Victory! California Appeals Court
Refuses to Revive Surveillance Tech
CEO’s Meritless Lawsuit Against
Journalist
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVID GREENE | SEPTEMBER 25, 2026
EFF to Court: Trump's Use of Truth
Social's Pay-To-See-Posts-First
Scheme Violates Americans' 1st
Amendment Equal Access Rights
The Intercept Media, Inc. and
Freedom of the Press Foundation v.

--- page 6 ---
LEGAL CASE
Trump et al
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SOPHIA COPE | SEPTEMBER 21, 2026
D.C. Circuit Must Vacate a Drone
Flight Restriction That Criminalized
Recording Immigration Agents
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CHRISTOPH SCHMON | SEPTEMBER 21,
2026
EU Kids Act Won't Keep the Internet
Accountable and Trustworthy
2025 Annual Report: Standing Up for
an Open Digital World

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY ALLISON MORRIS | SEPTEMBER 18,
2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY AARON MACKEY | SEPTEMBER 17, 2026
California’s “Addictive Feeds” Law
Violates Teens’ First Amendment
Rights
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BETTY GEDLU | SEPTEMBER 3, 2026
Court Rules Against Citizen
Journalists in DMCA Takedown Case—
EFF Will Appeal
A List of ICE Subpoenas to Tech
Companies

--- page 8 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MARIO TRUJILLO | AUGUST 26, 2026
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License