California Auditor Releases Damning Report About Law Enforcement’s Use of Automated License Plate Readers | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give California Auditor Releases Damning Report About Law Enforcement’s Use of Automated License Plate Readers DEEPLINKS BLOG By Dave Maass and Hayley Tsukayama February 13, 2020 California Auditor Releases Damning Report About Law Enforcement’s Use of Automated License Plate Readers Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link California police and sheriffs are failing to protect the privacy of drivers on city streets, the California State Auditor’s office determined after a seven-month investigation into the use of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) by the Los Angeles Police Department and three other local law enforcement agencies. California State Senator Scott Wiener sponsored the State Auditor’s report. The auditor raised a long list of concerns, including fundamental problems with police ALPR policies, failure to conduct audits, and the risk of ALPR data being abused to surveil political rallies or target immigrant populations. In addition to Los Angeles, the auditor investigated the Fresno Police Department, Sacramento County Sheriff’s Office, and Marin County Sheriff’s Office. The auditor indicated that the problems are likely prevalent across 230 California law enforcement agencies using ALPRs. The report is a damning assessment of how California law enforcement agencies use this mass-surveillance technology, which employs computer-controlled, high-speed cameras mounted on street lights, on top of police cars, or speed-monitoring trailers that automatically capture images of every vehicle that drives by, without drivers’ knowledge or permission. The cameras capture the exact time and place a license plate was seen, and often compares that data point to hot lists of “people of interest” to police. The cameras are capable of capturing millions of data points, which, taken in the aggregate, can paint an intimate portrait of a driver’s life and even chill First Amendment protected activity. Read the State Auditor’s Report. Among the auditor’s key findings: The four agencies’ “[p]oorly developed and incomplete policies contributed to the agencies’ failure to implement ALPR programs that reflect the privacy principles” required by state law. “Instead of ensuring that only authorized users access their ALPR data for appropriate purposes, the agencies we reviewed have made abuse possible by neglecting to institute sufficient monitoring.” “A member of law enforcement could misuse ALPR images to stalk an individual or observe vehicles at particular locations and events, such as doctors’ offices or clinics and political rallies. Despite these risks, the agencies we reviewed conduct little to no auditing of users’ searches.” “[A]gencies have not based their decisions regarding how long to retain their ALPR images on the documented usefulness of those images to investigators, and they may be retaining the images longer than necessary, increasing the risk to individuals’ privacy.” “We found that the three agencies storing ALPR data in Vigilant’s cloud—Fresno, Marin, and Sacramento—do not have sufficient data security safeguards in their contracts.” While the California Department of Justice has guidelines on protecting police data from federal immigration enforcement activities, “agencies were either unaware of these guidelines or had not implemented them for their ALPR systems.” ALPRs allow police to upload our movements to massive databases.That enables them and others to analyze our travel patterns, identify visitors to specific locations, and receive real-time alerts on specific cars through “hot lists.” For more than eight years, EFF has raised concerns about the technology because it can reveal sensitive information about all drivers, regardless of whether they are suspected of connection to criminal activity. In 2015, EFF supported legislation— S.B. 34 —to require agencies to implement policies that protect civil liberties and privacy, and to maintain a detailed log of every time someone accesses ALPR data. Last summer, EFF worked with Sen. Wiener to request the California State Auditor to conduct an audit of ALPRs used by law enforcement agencies throughout the state and to assess whether agencies are complying with S.B. 34. Based on our own research, we demonstrated to legislators how police, sheriffs, and other agencies were routinely flouting a state law requiring transparency and accountability designed to protect the public’s privacy and civil liberties. This included failure to keep track of system searches and publish their usage policies online. We also drew attention to the fact that agencies are collecting far more information than they need and are sharing the data indiscriminately with hundreds other agencies across the country. Over the last seven months, the state auditor’s staff spent 2,800 hours surveying every police and sheriff’s department in the state and conducting deep-dives of four agencies. The auditor made many recommendations. The California legislature should amend state law to require the California Justice Department to draft and publish a template for ALPR policies that local law enforcement agencies can use as a model. The Justice Department should also issue guidelines about security requirements agencies should follow to protect ALPR data. The amended law must establish rules about how long ALPR data can be retained, including data that is used to link persons of interest with license plate images. Periodic evaluations of data retention policies should be conducted to ensure that police are keeping data for the shortest time as practical, the auditor said. The four law enforcement agencies investigated should review and revise their ALPR policies and do an assessment of their data security practices by August. The auditor found that 230 agencies in California were deploying ALPRs, with the majority using Vigilant Solutions to collect, store, and analyze the data. An additional 36 agencies planned to deploy ALPRs in the near future. This is the first time that a comprehensive list of ALPR users in California has been compiled. Learn about which agencies are using automated license plate readers here. Of the agencies that use ALPR systems, 96 percent said that they had ALPR policies. But, as the audit reveals, many of the policies that agencies have in place are insufficient. The agencies audited in Fresno, Marin, and Sacramento did not cover who has access to the system, or how the agency monitors use of the system to comply with privacy laws. The Los Angeles Police Department, which has an ALPR database of 320 million images, had no policy specifically dealing with its ALPR systems at all. The department said that its existing information technology policies adequately covered the system—a belief that the auditor’s office did not share. The audit also reveals that the four departments it examined closely are sharing data from ALPR systems broadly—between those agencies, ALPR data are shared with entities in 44 out of 50 states. The Sacramento County’s Sheriff’s Office alone shares with more than 1,000 entities. Agencies also retain data for varying periods of time, some very long. The Los Angeles Police Department, for example, keeps information from ALPR systems for five years. Information contained in these systems, the audit found, include not only license plate information but also personal information such as name, address, date of birth, and even some criminal justice data such as arrest record. All four agencies, the report found, lacked sufficient safeguards for managing which employees can see the data from their systems, such as a policy that requires supervisory approval for establishing an account to access an ALPR system. Problems likely extend far beyond the four agencies profiled. “We are concerned that the policy deficiencies we found are not limited to the agencies we reviewed, and thus law enforcement agencies of all types may benefit from guidance to improve their policies,” the report said. Based on the outcome of the audit, EFF asks the state legislature to enact new safeguards to limit how police use this technology. Agencies must create and define a clear process for adding and removing vehicles from hot lists, and limit hot lists to only the most serious of crimes. Agencies must not retain any data about vehicles that do not match a vehicle included on such a hotlist. [Corrected] Agencies should not use ALPR data collected or stored by a private company. Agencies should follow the state of Maryland’s lead and disclose on an annual basis how many fixed and mobile license plate readers they have, how many license plates they scanned, how many of those scans matched a hot list, how many times agencies outside the state requested and received data, the results of all audits, and any breaches of the system that occurred. Forbid the use of predictive algorithms based on ALPR data. Place a statewide moratorium on government use of ALPRs, similar to the moratorium on mobile face recognition passed last session. ALPR technology can be used to target drivers who visit sensitive places such as health centers, immigration clinics, gun shops, union halls, protests, or centers of religious worship—all without drivers’ permission or knowledge. This report clearly demonstrates the ways that these agencies are failing California drivers—and raises serious questions about how entities across the country use and access ALPR data. Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | April 8, 2026 Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the Arab Spring Fueled a Global Surveillance Boom When people remember the 2011 uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), they picture crowded squares, raised phones, and the feeling that the internet had finally shifted the balance of power toward ordinary people. But the past decade and a half is also a story about how governments... Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | March 26, 2026 Traffic Violation! License Plate Reader Mission Creep Is Already Here A new report from 404 Media sheds light on how automated license plate readers (ALPRs) could be used beyond the press releases and glossy marketing materials put out by law enforcement agencies and ALPR vendors. Press Release | March 3, 2026 EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down Unconstitutional Geofence Searches The brief argues that geofence warrants—which compel companies to provide information on every electronic device in a given area during a given time period—are the digital version of the exploratory rummaging that the drafters of the Fourth Amendment specifically intended to prevent. Deeplinks Blog by Saira Hussain | February 26, 2026 Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad Search of Protesters’ Devices and Digital Data In a big win for protesters’ rights, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit overturned a lower court’s dismissal of a challenge to sweeping warrants to search a protester’s devices and digital data and a nonprofit’s social media data.The case, Armendariz v. City of Colorado Springs ,... Deeplinks Blog by Jennifer Pinsof | February 17, 2026 San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System As ICE and other federal agencies continue their assault on civil liberties, local leaders are stepping up to protect their communities. This includes pushing back against automated license plate readers, or ALPRs, which are tools of mass surveillance that can be weaponized against immigrants, political dissidents and other targets. Press Release | February 17, 2026 New Report Helps Journalists Dig Deeper Into Police Surveillance Technology SAN FRANCISCO — A new report released today offers journalists tips on cutting through the sales hype about police surveillance technology and report accurately on costs, benefits, privacy, and accountability as these invasive and often ineffective tools come to communities across the nation. The “Selling Safety” ... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton , Sarah Hamid | February 11, 2026 “Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes at a High and Dangerous Cost Surveillance technology vendors, federal agencies, and wealthy private donors have long helped provide local law enforcement “free” access to surveillance equipment that bypasses local oversight. The result is predictable: serious accountability gaps and data pipelines to other entities, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) , that expose millions of... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton | February 10, 2026 No One, Including Our Furry Friends, Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance Nightmare Amazon Ring’s Super Bowl ad offered a vision of our streets that should leave every person unsettled about the company’s goals for disintegrating our privacy in public.In the ad, disguised as a heartfelt effort to reunite the lost dogs of the country with their innocent owners, the company previewed future... Press Release | February 10, 2026 Coalition Urges California to Revoke Permits for Federal License Plate Reader Surveillance SAN FRANCISCO – California must revoke permits allowing federal agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to put automated license plate readers along border highways, a coalition led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Imperial Valley Equity & ... Deeplinks Blog by Melissa Srago | February 9, 2026 EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out of Our City Flock contracts have quietly spread to cities across the country. But Flock ALPR (Automated License Plate Readers) erode civil liberties from the moment they're installed. While officials claim these cameras keep neighborhoods safe, the evidence tells a different story. The data reveals how Flock has enabled surveillance of people seeking... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information