Hot Off the Press: EFF's Updated Guide to Tech at the US-Mexico Border | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Hot Off the Press: EFF's Updated Guide to Tech at the US-Mexico Border DEEPLINKS BLOG By Dave Maass April 13, 2026 Hot Off the Press: EFF's Updated Guide to Tech at the US-Mexico Border Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Español When people see Customs & Border Protection's giant, tethered surveillance blimp flying 20 miles outside of Marfa, Texas, lots of them confuse it with an art installation. Elsewhere along the U.S.-Mexico border, surveillance towers get mistaken for cell-phone towers. And that traffic barrel? It's actually a camera. That piece of rusted litter? That's a camera too. Today we are publishing a major update to our zine, " Surveillance Technology at the U.S.-Mexico Border ," the first since the second Trump administration began. To help people identify the machinery of homeland security, we've added more models of surveillance towers, newly deployed military tech, and a gallery of disguised trail cams and automated license plate readers. You can get this 40-page, full-color guide through EFF's Shop or download a Creative-Commons licensed version here . "The Battalion Search and Rescue always carries the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s zine in our desert rig," says James Holeman, who founded the humanitarian group that looks for human remains in remote parts of New Mexico and Arizona. "We’re finding new surveillance all the time, and without a resource like that, we wouldn't know what the hell we're looking at.” The original version of the zine was distributed nearly exclusively to our allies in the borderlands—journalists, humanitarian aid workers, immigrant advocates—to help them better identify and report on the technology they discover on the ground. We only made a handful available in our online shop, and they went fast. This time, we've printed enough for our broader EFF membership. Even if you don't live near the border, you can support our work uncovering how the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's technology threatens human rights by picking up a copy. The zine is the culmination of a dozen trips to the border, where we hunted surveillance towers and other tech installations. We attended multiple border security conventions to collect promotional and technical materials directly from vendors. We filed public records requests, reviewed thousands of pages of docs, and analyzed satellite imagery of the entire 2,000-mile border several times over. Some of the images came from local allies, like geographer Dugan Meyer and Borderlands Relief Collective , who continue to share valuable intelligence on the changing landscape of border surveillance. The update is available in English, with an updated Spanish version expected later this year. In the meantime, we have reprinted the original Spanish edition. If you want to know more, a collection of EFF's broader work on border technology is available here . And if you're curious exactly where these technologies are located, you can check our ongoing map . SUPPORT THIS WORK Related Issues Border Surveillance Technology Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass | April 24, 2026 California Coastal Community Must Reject CBP's AI-Powered Surveillance Tower Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is seeking permission from the California city of San Clemente to install an Anduril Industries surveillance tower on a cliff that would allow for constant monitoring of entire coastal neighborhoods. The proposed tower is Anduril's Sentry, part of the Autonomous Surveillance Tower (AST) program.... Press Release | February 10, 2026 Coalition Urges California to Revoke Permits for Federal License Plate Reader Surveillance SAN FRANCISCO – California must revoke permits allowing federal agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to put automated license plate readers along border highways, a coalition led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Imperial Valley Equity & ... Deeplinks Blog by Cindy Cohn | January 26, 2026 EFF Statement on ICE and CBP Violence In the past year, ICE and CBP have descended into utter lawlessness, repeatedly refusing to exercise or submit to the democratic accountability required by the Constitution and our system of laws. These violations must stop now. Deeplinks Blog by Josh Richman | January 15, 2026 Report: ICE Using Palantir Tool That Feeds On Medicaid Data ICE is using a Palantir tool that uses Medicaid and other government data to stalk people for arrest. This is exactly the kind of data privacy abuse that EFF has been warning about. Deeplinks Blog by Cooper Quintin | January 7, 2026 ICE Is Going on a Surveillance Shopping Spree We need to have a hard look at the surveillance industry. It is a key enabler of vast and untold violations of human rights and civil liberties, and it continues to be used by aspiring autocrats to threaten our very democracy. As long as it exists, the surveillance industry, and... Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass , Guest Author | January 6, 2026 The Homeland Security Spending Trail: How to Follow the Money Through U.S. Government Databases The U.S. government publishes volumes of detailed data on the money it spends, but searching through it and finding information can be challenging. This guide covers the key databases that store information on federal spending and contracts, government solicitations for products and services, and the government's "online shopping superstore," plus... Press Release | March 31, 2025 EFF Installs Border Technology Exhibit at Angel Island Immigration Station SAN FRANCISCO—The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has installed a photographic and informational exhibit on border surveillance technology for public viewing at Angel Island State Park—the first such display ever in a California State Park and a National Historic Landmark. The “Border Surveillance: Places, People, and Technology” exhibit—launching Wednesday, April 2... Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass | December 30, 2024 Exposing Surveillance at the U.S.-Mexico Border: 2024 Year in Review in Pictures Some of the most picturesque landscapes in the United States can be found along the border with Mexico. Yet, from San Diego’s beaches to the Sonoran Desert, from Big Bend National Park to the Boca Chica wetlands, we see vistas marred by the sinister spread of surveillance technology , courtesy... Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass | December 20, 2024 Customs & Border Protection Fails Baseline Privacy Requirements for Surveillance Technology U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has failed to address six out of six main privacy protections for three of its border surveillance programs—surveillance towers, aerostats, and unattended ground sensors—according to a new assessment by the Government Accountability Office (GAO).In the report, GAO compared the policies for these technologies... Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass | October 21, 2024 U.S. Border Surveillance Towers Have Always Been Broken A new bombshell scoop from NBC News revealed an internal U.S. Border Patrol memo claiming that 30 percent of camera towers that compose the agency's "Remote Video Surveillance System" (RVSS) program are broken. Except, this isn't a bombshell. What should actually be shocking is that Congressional leaders are acting shocked. Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Border Surveillance Technology Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information