"We Want Texans to Know Their Rights": Q&A with Mayday Health on the Impact of Surveillance on Abortion Care | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today EFFecting Change: If You Own It, Why Can't You Fix It? on July 23 Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ "We Want Texans to Know Their Rights": Q&A with Mayday Health on the Impact of Surveillance on Abortion Care DEEPLINKS BLOG By Kenyatta Thomas July 9, 2026 "We Want Texans to Know Their Rights": Q&A with Mayday Health on the Impact of Surveillance on Abortion Care Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Last May, EFF reported that a sheriff’s office in Texas searched data from more than 83,000 automated license plate reader (ALPR) cameras to track down a woman suspected of self-managing an abortion. ALPRs are promoted as tools for keeping communities safe by finding missing persons and locating stolen vehicles, but this case showed how ALPRS can be weaponized to investigate people’s private healthcare decisions. And these aren’t the only tools in the surveillance arsenal: others include location tracking tools like Locate X , which can show a person’s visit to an abortion clinic, or search histories which might be used as evidence of a person’s interest in obtaining abortion pills. Taken together, these tools create a dangerous surveillance pipeline that threatens everyone’s health privacy. Too often, though, the public is unaware of the threat, and one nonprofit is working to change that. Following EFF and 404 Media’s report on Texas’s use of Flock cameras, eye-catching billboards popped up in Houston, warning drivers that if they’re pregnant, the state of Texas could be tracking them. Photo provided by Mayday Health These billboards came from Mayday Health , a nonprofit dedicated to sharing information about abortion pills, birth control, and gender-affirming care. We spoke with Leo Raisner, Executive Director of Mayday Health, about the billboards to learn more about the campaign and organization and to discuss how surveillance affects reproductive freedom. *** THOMAS: Why did Mayday Health start this campaign in Texas? RAISNER: Well, we read the incredible reporting coming from EFF about Texas's surveillance . We want Texans to know their rights, to know their options, and to know that there are organizations and people who have their back. So we decided to put up a few billboards around the Houston area to remind people that they still have options. Digital advertising in the space, as I know you're well aware of, faces enormous platform restrictions from Meta and Google, whereas billboards reach people in the physical world without algorithmic gatekeeping and without requiring anyone to search for information. So at the very least, if a driver's passing by the billboard, we’re spreading information that they should be careful that they might be surveilled, and also there are different options. There's a website where they can come learn more about those options. THOMAS: And how have the billboards been received so far? Have you heard anything from folks in the Houston area yet? RAISNER: Yeah, we've heard some messages of support on social media DMs. We're just thrilled about how many drivers these messages are going to reach. They'll be up for 4 weeks, and are expected to hit over 1,000,000 drivers during that 4-week campaign period. THOMAS: Are there other ways that Mayday Health has seen surveillance systems impact people seeking healthcare? RAISNER: You know, we go all over the country and talk to folks who are seeking reproductive healthcare options in states where clinics are banned, and we direct folks to our website where they can learn more about abortion pills. We make privacy very central to how we operate. Privacy is not just an afterthought for us. When people arrive at our website, we direct them to the Digital Defense Fund , which offers people privacy and security resources as they're navigating reproductive healthcare in states where they might be being surveilled. We don't collect cookies , we don't collect identifying information from visitors to our site. We want people to know their options, and we don't have any interest in knowing who they are. THOMAS: Why do you think the work of the digital rights movement is so important to the work of the reproductive health rights and justice movement? RAISNER: I mean, those two movements are inextricably linked. The anti-abortion movement is using every tool in their toolbox to prevent people from getting the healthcare access they need, whether that's surveilling people online or closing down brick - and - mortar clinics, but we encourage people to visit Mayday Health and learn that they still have options no matter where they live. THOMAS: Is there anything else that you would like the readers of our blog to know about Mayday Health? RAISNER: I'd love for people to know that abortion pills are FDA approved. They're safe, they're effective, and they're available through the mail. *** EFF has said it time and time again – surveillance and reproductive freedom cannot coexist . Whether the tracking occurs over the internet or through license plate reader systems with over 83,000 cameras, it is an invasion of privacy. Protecting our digital privacy is more critical now than ever. Help EFF fight back against this digital dragnet and protect reproductive freedom for all by making a donation. Related Issues Reproductive Justice Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Lisa Femia | June 25, 2026 Four Years After Dobbs, Anti-Abortion Lawmakers Keep Coming for Online Speech This week marks four years since Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization overturned Roe v. Wade ’s constitutional protections for people seeking abortion care. Anniversaries are a moment to take stock, and over the last four years, EFF has seen firsthand how digital rights and reproductive rights have become increasingly intertwined.... Deeplinks Blog by Allison Morris, Babette Ngene , Corynne McSherry , Jillian C. York , Sarah Hamid | March 6, 2026 Admiring Our Heroes for International Women’s Day: Five Women In Tech That EFF Admires In honor of International Women’s Day, we asked five women at EFF about women in digital rights, freedom of expression, technology, and tech activism who have inspired us. They include Anna Politkovskaya, Cindy Cohn, Jane (the organization), Ebele Okobi, and Ada Lovelace. Deeplinks Blog by Jennifer Pinsof | December 26, 2025 Defending Access to Abortion Information Online: 2025 in Review As reproductive rights face growing attacks globally, access to content about reproductive healthcare and abortion online has never been more critical. The internet has essential information on topics like where and how to access care, links to abortion funds, and guidance on ways to navigate potential legal risks. Reproductive rights... Deeplinks Blog by Dave Maass , Rindala Alajaji | October 7, 2025 Flock Safety and Texas Sheriff Claimed License Plate Search Was for a Missing Person. It Was an Abortion Investigation. New documents and court records obtained by EFF show that Texas deputies queried Flock Safety's surveillance data in an abortion investigation, contradicting the narrative promoted by the company and the Johnson County Sheriff that she was “being searched for as a missing person,” and that “it was about her safety.”... Deeplinks Blog by Molly Buckley | October 3, 2025 #StopCensoringAbortion: What We Learned and Where We Go From Here This is the tenth and final installment in a blog series documenting EFF's findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . When we launched Stop Censoring Abortion , our goals were to understand how social media platforms were silencing abortion-related content, gather data... Deeplinks Blog by Jason Kelley | October 2, 2025 Tips to Protect Your Posts About Reproductive Health From Being Removed This is the ninth inst allment in a blog series documenting EFF’s findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . Meta has been getting content moderation wrong for years, like most platforms that host user-generated content. Sometimes it’s a result of deliberate design choices—privacy... Deeplinks Blog by Molly Buckley | October 1, 2025 Platforms Have Failed Us on Abortion Content. Here's How They Can Fix It. This is the eighth installment in a blog series documenting EFF's findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . In our Stop Censoring Abortion series , we’ve documented the many ways that reproductive rights advocates have faced arbitrary censorship on Meta platforms. Since... Deeplinks Blog by Kenyatta Thomas | September 26, 2025 The Abortion Hotline Meta Wants to Go Dark This is the sixth installment in a blog series documenting EFF's findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . When we started our Stop Censoring Abortion campaign , we heard from activists, advocacy organizations, researchers, and even healthcare providers who had all experienced... Deeplinks Blog by Lisa Femia | September 23, 2025 Meta is Removing Abortion Advocates' Accounts Without Warning This is the fifth installment in a blog series documenting EFF's findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . When the team at Women Help Women signed into Instagram last winter, they were met with a distressing surprise: without warning, Meta had... Deeplinks Blog by Kenyatta Thomas | September 22, 2025 Going Viral vs. Going Dark: Why Extremism Trends and Abortion Content Gets Censored This is the fourth installment in a blog series documenting EFF's findings from the Stop Censoring Abortion campaign. You can read additional posts here . One of the goals of our Stop Censoring Abortion campaign was to put names, stories, and numbers to the experiences we’d been hearing... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Reproductive Justice Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information