--- page 1 ---
Print Blocking Won't Work -
Permission to Print Part 2
APRIL 2, 2026
eff.org
ESPAÑOL
This is the second post in a series on 3D print blocking, for the first entry check out:
Print Blocking is Anti-Consumer - Permission to Print Part 1
Legislators across the U.S. are proposing laws to force “print blockers” on 3D
printers sold in their states. This mandated censorware is doomed to fail for its
intended purpose, but will still manage to hurt the professional and hobbyist
communities relying on these tools.
3D printers are commonly used to repair belongings, decorate homes, print
figurines, and so much more. It’s not just hobbyists; 3D printers are also used
professionally for parts prototyping and fixturing, small-batch manufacturing,
and workspace organization. In rare cases, they’ve also been used to print
parts needed for firearm assembly.
Many states have already banned manufacturing firearms using computer
controlled machine tools, which are called “Computer Numerical Control or
CNC machines,” and 3D printers without a license. Recently proposed laws
seek to impose technical limitations onto 3D printers (and in some cases, CNC
machines) in the hope of enforcing this prohibition.

--- page 2 ---
This is a terrible idea; these mandates will be onerous to implement and will
lock printer users into vendor software, impose one-time and ongoing costs
on both printer vendors and users, and lay the foundation for a 3D-print
censorship platform to be used in other jurisdictions. We dive more into these
issues in the first part of this series.
On a pragmatic level, however, these state mandates are just wishful thinking.
Below, we dive into how 3D printing works, why these laws won’t deter the
printing of firearms, and how regular lawful use will be caught in the proposed
dragnet.
How 3D Printers Work
To understand the impact of this proposed legislation, we need to know a bit
about how 3D printers work. The most common printers work similarly to a
computer-controlled hot glue gun on a motion platform; they follow basic
commands to maintain temperature, extrude (push) plastic through a nozzle,
and move a platform. These motions together build up layers to make a final
“print.” Modern 3D printers often offer more features like Wi-Fi connectivity
or camera monitoring, but fundamentally they are very simple machines.
The basic instructions used by most 3D printers are called Geometric Code, or
G-Code, which specify very basic motions such as “move from position A to
position B while extruding plastic.” The list of commands that will eventually
print up a part are transferred to the printer in a text file thousands-to-
millions of lines long. The printer dutifully follows these instructions with no
overall idea of what it is printing.
While it is possible to write G-Code by hand for either a CNC machine or a 3D
printer, the vast majority is generated by computer aided manufacturing (CAM)
software, often called a “slicer” in 3D printing since it divides a 3D model into
many 2D slices then generates motion instructions. 
This same general process applies to CNC machines which use G-Code
instructions to guide a metal removal tool. CNC machines have been included
in previous prohibitions on firearm manufacturing and file distribution and are
also targeted in some of these bills.
There are other types of 3D printers such as those that print concrete, resin,
metal, chocolate and other materials using slightly different methods. All of
these would be subject to the proposed requirements regardless of how
unlikely doing harm with a gun made out of chocolate would be.

--- page 3 ---
Simple rectangular 3D model for test
fit
Part of a 173490 line long G-Code file
produced by slicer for simple
rectangular model.
Part of a 173,490 line long G-Code file for a simple rectangular part.
How is Firearm Detection Supposed to Work?
Under these proposed laws, manufacturers of consumer 3D printers must
ensure their printers only work with their software, and implement firearm
detection algorithms on either the printer itself or in a slicer software. These
algorithms must detect firearm files using a maintained database of existing
models. Vendors of printers must then verify that printers are on the allow-list
maintained by the state before they can offer them for sale.
Owners of printers will be guilty of a crime if they circumvent these intrusive
scanning procedures or load alternative software, which they might do because
their printer manufacturer ends support. Owners of existing noncompliant 3D

--- page 4 ---
printers in regulated states will be unable to resell their printers on the
secondary market legally.
What Will Actually Happen?
While the proposed laws allow for scanning to happen on either the printer
itself or in the slicer software, the reality is more complicated. 
The computers inside many 3D printers have very limited computational and
storage ability; it will be impossible for the printer’s computer to render the
G-Code into a 3D model to compare with the database of prohibited files. Thus
the only way to achieve this through the machine would be to upload all
printer files to a cloud comparison tool, creating new delays, errors, and
unacceptable invasions of privacy.
Many vendors will instead choose to permanently link their printers to a
specific slicer that implements firearm detection. This requires cryptographic
signing of G-Code to ensure only authorized prints are completed, and will
lock 3D printer owners into the slicer chosen by their printer vendor.
Regardless of the specifics of their implementation, these algorithms will
interfere with 3D printers' ability to print other parts without actually stopping
manufacture of guns. It takes very little skill for a user to make slight design
tweaks to either a model or G-Code to evade detection. One can also design
incomplete or heavily adorned models which can be made functional with
some post-print alterations. While this would be pioneered by skilled users—
like the ones who designed today’s 3D printed guns—once the design and
instructions are out there anyone able to print a gun today will be able to
follow suit.  
Firearm part identification features also impose costs onto 3D printer
manufacturers, and hence their end consumers. 3D printer manufacturers must
develop or license these costly algorithms and continuously maintain and
update both the algorithm and the database of firearm models. Older printers
that cannot comply will not be able to be resold in states where they are
banned, creating additional E-waste.
While those wishing to create guns will still be able to do so, people printing
other functional parts will likely be caught up in these algorithms, particularly
for things like film props, kids’ toys, or decorative models, which often closely
resemble real firearms or firearm components.

--- page 5 ---
What Are The Impacts of These Changes?
Technological restrictions on manufacturing tools’ abilities are harmful for
many reasons. EFF is particularly concerned with this regulation locking a 3D
printer to proprietary vendor software. Vendors will be able to use this
mandate to support only in-house materials, locking users into future
purchases. Vendor slicer software is often based on out-of-date, open source
software, and forcing users to use that software deprives them of new features
or even use of their printer altogether if the vendor goes out of business. At
worst, some of these bill will make it a misdemeanor to fix those problems and
gain full control of your printer.
File-scanning frameworks required by this regulation will lay the foundation
for future privacy and freedom intrusions. This requirement could be co-opted
to scan prints for copyright violations and be abused similar to DMCA
takedowns, or to suppress models considered obscene by a patchwork of
definitions. What if you were unable to print a repair part because the vendor
asserted the model was in violation of their trademark? What if your print was
considered obscene?
Regardless of your position on current prohibitions on firearms, we should all
fight back against this effort to force technological restrictions on 3D printers,
and legislators must similarly abandon the idea. These laws impose real costs
and potential harms among lawful users, lay the groundwork for future
censorship, and simply won’t deter firearm printing. 
TAGS:
3DPRINTING
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 6 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR, NATHAN SHEARD | APRIL
16, 2026
Stop New York's Attack on 3D
Printing
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CLIFF BRAUN, RORY MIR | APRIL 13,
2026
The Dangers of California’s
Legislation to Censor 3D Printing
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CORYNNE MCSHERRY, TORI NOBLE |
APRIL 9, 2026
Comparison Shopping Is Not a
(Computer) Crime

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR | APRIL 2, 2026
Print Blocking is Anti-Consumer -
Permission to Print Part 1
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY KATHARINE TRENDACOSTA |
DECEMBER 10, 2025
The Best Big Media Merger Is No
Merger at All
LEGAL CASE
Cox Communications v. Sony Music
Entertainment
Application Gatekeeping: An Ever-
Expanding Pathway to Internet
Censorship

--- page 8 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CORYNNE MCSHERRY | NOVEMBER 3,
2025
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR | OCTOBER 24, 2025
Science Must Decentralize
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CORY DOCTOROW | OCTOBER 3, 2025
What Europe’s New Gig Work Law
Means for Unions and Technology
Age Verification Is A Windfall for Big
Tech—And A Death Sentence For

--- page 9 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MOLLY BUCKLEY | SEPTEMBER 5, 2025
Smaller Platforms
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License