EFF Statement on California Governor's Executive Order on AI | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ EFF Statement on California Governor's Executive Order on AI DEEPLINKS BLOG By Rindala Alajaji , Tori Noble , Jacob Hoffman-Andrews , and Hayley Tsukayama September 18, 2026 EFF Statement on California Governor's Executive Order on AI California Gov. Gavin Newsom's executive order is an opportunity for a needed, thoughtful conversation about artificial intelligence and its potential harms. Everyday Californians are feeling real anxiety about the risks of artificial intelligence, and as an organization that works to ensure technology empowers people, EFF welcomes this order as a way for the state of California to lead a much-needed dialogue that addresses these concerns. Nonetheless, the most immediate and current concerns with this technology are not about sci-fi scenarios concerning rogue super-intelligence. They are happening right now through biased algorithmic decision-making for employment or government benefits , AI-powered surveillance systems such as Flock cameras , and artificially inflated personalized pricing . People want state and federal leaders to act, and we urge Gov. Newsom to develop thoughtful policies to address those concerns. Today’s EO is a good start. To that end, EFF supports the focus on expanding the reporting requirements under SB 53 (2025) for loss-of-control incidents, alongside third-party investigations. We urge the administration to consider how to make these third-party investigations available for smaller developers. As the Government Operations Agency prepares its recommendations for the governor, we urge leaders to also realize that the effectiveness of kill switches in advanced AI systems remains an area of active research. As such, they should ensure that - as we’ve previously mentioned - any technology regulation targeting cybersecurity practices at AI labs must be careful, precise, and practical . Moreover, we also caution that government-controlled kill switches run the risk of being used as a form of retaliation against protected speech, as demonstrated by the Trump Administration’s retaliatory actions against Anthropic earlier this year. Ultimately, true safety requires California to focus on concrete, immediate, and urgent harms of AI technologies by ensuring that algorithmic decision-making in both the government and private sectors respects people’s rights and well-being. We urge Gov. Newsom and the state of California to develop thoughtful policy in collaboration with those most at risk of harm to address these and other concerns. Related Issues Artificial Intelligence Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Erica Portnoy , Thorin Klosowski | September 18, 2026 Secure Messaging and AI Remain In Conflict Despite the Promise of TEEs Secure messaging platforms, like Signal, WhatsApp, and recently, encrypted RCS , operate on a straightforward assumption: the content at each end of a conversation is private to the participants in the conversation. End-to-end encryption helps provide the mathematical guarantees that the companies who operate these messaging platforms cannot access the... Deeplinks Blog by Jacob Hoffman-Andrews , Tori Noble , Maddie Daly | September 17, 2026 EFF to Lawmakers: Ground AI Cybersecurity Rules in Best Practices With doomsday AI scenarios dominating the news, lawmakers are rightly concerned about reports concerning security breaches at major US AI labs, such as the OpenAI–Hugging Face incident and the many others reported in its aftermath. As they consider potentially regulating frontier AI, they should focus any new legislation on the... Deeplinks Blog by Lena Cohen | September 8, 2026 New Records Reveal Problems with Medicare’s AI Prior Authorization Experiment EFF sued the government for information a new Medicare program that uses AI to evaluate prior authorization requests for certain medical services. Today, we’re releasing approximately 1,000 pages of records obtained through this litigation. The records show that the program has resulted in widespread delays and denials of care, operational... Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | September 1, 2026 Judge Rules DOD Unlawfully Retaliated Against Anthropic A federal judge has sided with Anthropic on its claims that the Department of Defense illegally retaliated against Anthropic’s protected speech by labeling the AI company a “supply chain risk.” Deeplinks Blog by Tori Noble , Corynne McSherry | August 31, 2026 EFF to Courts: Don’t Rewrite Copyright Over AI Hype New markets, new ideas, and new creators are actually what copyright is supposed to promote, not restrict. Using copyright to lock in existing gatekeepers and massive rightsholders’ profits helps neither the public nor individual artists. Deeplinks Blog by Hugh D'Andrade | August 11, 2026 Who (or What) Generates Images for EFF? We’ve had a few questions from EFF supporters lately, asking whether the images we use on our blog posts, or on donation and shop items, have been created with AI image generators. We’d like to answer these questions and clarify our internal policy... Deeplinks Blog by Rindala Alajaji , Tori Noble | August 3, 2026 EFF Joins 18 Civil Rights Organizations Calling on Governor Hochul to Reject the Stealth Crawler Prohibition Act EFF joined a group of 18 civil society organizations to send a letter encouraging New York Governor Kathy Hochul to veto Senate Bill 9934A, the New York Stealth Crawler Prohibition Act . The letter states: While framed as a measure to protect local journalism, this legislation harms free expression and establishes ... Deeplinks Blog by Tori Noble , Hayley Tsukayama | August 3, 2026 EFF Joins Call for FTC to Drop Its Disastrous AI Policy Proposal The Federal Trade Commission issued a proposed policy statement "concerning the suppression of accuracy in artificial intelligence systems." But the government may not install itself as the arbiter of truth. We urge the FTC to withdraw this misguided proposal and instead focus on its core strengths and mission to protect... Deeplinks Blog by Tori Noble | July 20, 2026 “Stealth Crawlers” Are Not a Threat to the Open Web. Bills Targeting Them Would Be. There’s a new boogeyman in the battles over AI: so-called “stealth crawlers.” We’ll admit it—the term “stealth crawlers” sounds quite nefarious. In reality, they’re anything but.“Stealth crawlers” are simply automated tools to access and collect public web data—without disclosing the user’s identity. Private crawlers like these facilitate all kinds of... Deeplinks Blog by Jillian C. York , Corynne McSherry | July 10, 2026 Automated Moderation Is Here to Stay—Accountability Must Keep Pace This post is part 2 in a series about automated content moderation. Read the first post here . When whistleblower Frances Haugen leaked a set of documents from Meta in 2020, among the revelations was a jarring statistic: The company’s algorithms designed to detect terrorist content incorrectly deleted nonviolent Arabic-language ... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Artificial Intelligence Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information