--- page 1 ---
2026 EFF Award Winners: Access
Now, 7amleh – The Arab Center for
the Advancement of Social Media,
DeFlock, and New Media Rights
SEPTEMBER 9, 2026
eff.org
EFF is pleased to announce that Access Now, 7amleh – The Arab Center for the
Advancement of Social Media, DeFlock, and New Media Rights have received
2026 EFF Awards for their vital work in ensuring that technology supports
freedom, justice, and innovation for all people. 
The EFF Awards recognize specific and substantial technical, social, economic,
or cultural contributions in diverse fields including journalism, art, digital
Image by EFF (CC-by)

--- page 2 ---
access, legislation, technology development, and law. 
For the past 30 years, the EFF Awards—previously known as the Pioneer
Awards—have recognized and honored key leaders in the fight for freedom and
innovation online. Started when the internet was new, the Awards now reflect
the fact that the online world has become both a necessity in modern life and a
continually evolving set of tools for communication, organizing, creativity, and
increasing human potential.  
Supporting a global community advancing digital rights, defending digital
access in crisis zones, empowering communities to take action against
surveillance, and providing free legal assistance for creators and consumers to
fight back against digital threats are high callings that help bring about a better
tech future for all. We are pleased to honor these organizations with 2026 EFF
Awards. 
Access Now – Fostering Change in Human Rights and
Technology
Access Now, founded in 2009 as an emergency response team helping Iranian
activists get back online and communicate safely, has grown into one of the
world’s foremost organizations defending and extending the digital rights of
people and communities at risk and supporting the global fight against
technological repression.  
Its 24/7 Digital Security Helpline offers real-time, direct technical assistance
and advice to civil society groups and activists, media organizations, journalists
and bloggers, and human rights defenders. It provides grants to frontline
organizations working with people and communities most impacted by digital
rights violations. It educates decision makers and pressures the powerful. And
it organizes RightsCon, a leading annual summit on human rights in the digital
age, where activists, technologists, policymakers, business leaders, journalists,
philanthropists, researchers, and artists can connect, collaborate, and drive
change at the intersection of human rights and technology.

--- page 3 ---
7amleh – The Arab Center for the Advancement of Social
Media – Defending and Advancing Digital Access and
Rights Across the MENA Region
7amleh - The Arab Center for the Advancement of Social Media protects and
expands digital access and rights for Palestinians and across the MENA region.
The nonprofit investigates and monitors challenges to digital rights, focusing
on internet access, privacy, freedom of expression and association online. It
builds the capacity of activists, human rights defenders, and civil society
organizations to provide training about digital rights, gender sensitive digital
security, and effective online advocacy.  
7amleh also advocates for changes to the digital rights policies and practices of
governments, corporations and other influential institutions and individuals
locally, regionally and internationally. It plans and manages advocacy and
awareness-raising campaigns and builds networks and coalitions to promote
access to safe, fair and free online spaces. For example, 7amleh has led the
#ReconnectGaza campaign, supported by dozens of international NGOs
including EFF, to restore full internet access in Gaza – a crucial lifeline for
residents, journalists, activists, and first responders.  
DeFlock – Exposing the ALPR Surveillance Network

--- page 4 ---
DeFlock is an open-source, volunteer-powered project that maps surveillance
devices across the world, helping communities hold their governments and
surveillance vendors accountable and understand where and how they're being
watched. Founded in 2024 by software engineer and privacy advocate Will
Freeman, DeFlock shines a light on the widespread use of automated license
plate reader (ALPR) technology and the threats it poses to personal privacy and
civil liberties.  
DeFlock resources help people request public records, speak to local lawmakers,
and take action against ALPR surveillance. Its work has helped foster a national
grassroots community of anti-surveillance activists fighting back against this
dangerous surveillance technology. 
New Media Rights – Helping Creators Fight Back Against
IP Bullies
New Media Rights (NMR) is a San Diego-based nonprofit program of California
Western School of Law dedicated to defending digital rights through legal
services, education, and public policy advocacy. Since its inception, NMR has
been at the forefront of protecting creators, entrepreneurs, and internet users
from digital threats such as copyright abuse, online harassment, and privacy
violations. 
In addition to providing free legal assistance, NMR has produced hundreds of
freely available video and written legal education guides for creators and
consumers, including the Fair Use App for filmmakers and video creators. It has
participated in regulatory proceedings on net neutrality, Digital Millennium
Copyright Act anti-circumvention, and copyright reform. Its work has also
helped support access to public information and greater business and
government accountability.

--- page 5 ---
Discover more. Join our email list for EFF news, events,
campaigns, and ways to support digital freedom.
POSTAL CODE (OPTIONAL)
EMAIL ADDRESS *
SIGN UP NOW
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License
I would like to join EFF's email list for EFF news, events, campaigns, and ways to
support digital freedom.