--- page 1 ---
The Human Toll of ALPR Errors
NOVEMBER 1, 2024
eff.org
This post was written by Gowri Nayar, an EFF legal intern.
Imagine driving to get your nails done with your family and all of a sudden,
you are pulled over by police officers for allegedly driving a stolen car. You are
dragged out of the car and detained at gun point. So are your daughter, sister,
and nieces. The police handcuff your family, even the children, and force
everyone to lie face-down on the pavement, before eventually realizing that
they made a mistake. This happened to Brittney Gilliam and her family on a
warm Sunday in Aurora, Colorado, in August 2020.
And the error? The police officers who pulled them over were relying on
information generated by automated license plate readers (ALPRs). These are
high-speed, computer-controlled camera systems that automatically capture
all license plate numbers that come into view, upload them to a central server,
and compare them to a “hot list” of vehicles sought by police. The ALPR
system told the police that Gilliam’s car had the same license plate number as
a stolen vehicle. But the stolen vehicle was a motorcycle with Montana plates,
while Gilliam’s vehicle was an SUV with Colorado plates.
Likewise, Denise Green had a frightening encounter with San Francisco police
officers late one night in March of 2009. She had just dropped her sister off at
a BART train station, when officers pulled her over because their ALPR
indicated that she was driving a stolen vehicle. Multiple officers ordered her to

--- page 2 ---
exit her vehicle, at gun point, and kneel on the ground as she was handcuffed.
It wasn’t until roughly 20 minutes later that the officers realized they had
made an error and let her go.
Turns out that the ALPR had misread a ‘3’ as a ‘7’ on Green’s license plate. But
what is even more egregious is that none of the officers bothered to double-
check the ALPR tip before acting on it.
In both of these dangerous episodes, the motorists were Black.  ALPR
technology can exacerbate our already discriminatory policing system, among
other reasons because too many police officers react recklessly to information
provided by these readers.
Wrongful detentions like these happen all over the country. In Atherton,
California, police officers pulled over Jason Burkleo on his way to work, on
suspicion of driving a stolen vehicle. They ordered him at gun point to lie on
his stomach to be handcuffed, only to later realize that their license plate
reader had misread an ‘H’ for an ‘M’. In Espanola, New Mexico, law
enforcement officials detained Jaclynn Gonzales at gun point and placed her 12
year-old sister in the back of a patrol vehicle, before discovering that the
reader had mistaken a ‘2’ for a ‘7’ on their license plates. One study found that
ALPRs misread the state of 1-in-10 plates (not counting other reading errors).
Other wrongful stops result from police being negligent in maintaining ALPR
databases. Contra Costa sheriff’s deputies detained Brian Hofer and his brother
on Thanksgiving day in 2019, after an ALPR indicated his car was stolen. But
the car had already been recovered. Police had failed to update the ALPR
database to take this car off the “hot list” of stolen vehicles for officers to
recover.
Police over-reliance on ALPR systems is also a problem. Detroit police knew
that the vehicle used in a shooting was a Dodge Charger. Officers then used
ALPR cameras to find the license plate numbers of all Dodge Chargers in the
area around the time. One such car, observed fully two miles away from the
shooting, was owned by Isoke Robinson.  Police arrived at her house and
handcuffed her, placed her 2-year old son in the back of their patrol car, and
impounded her car for three weeks. None of the officers even bothered to
check her car’s fog lights, though the vehicle used for the  shooting had a
missing fog light.
Officers have also abused ALPR databases to obtain information for their own
personal gain, for example, to stalk an ex-wife. Sadly, officer abuse of police

--- page 3 ---
EFF and 18 Organizations Urge UK
Policymakers to Prioritize
Addressing the Roots of Online Harm
databases is a recurring problem.
Many people subjected to wrongful ALPR detentions are filing and winning
lawsuits. The city of Aurora settled Brittney Gilliam’s lawsuit for $1.9 million.
In Denise Green’s case, the city of San Francisco paid $495,000 for her seizure
at gunpoint, constitutional injury, and severe emotional distress. Brian Hofer
received a $49,500 settlement.
While the financial costs of such ALPR wrongful detentions are high, the social
costs are much higher. Far from making our communities safer, ALPR systems
repeatedly endanger the physical safety of innocent people subjected to
wrongful detention by gun-wielding officers. They lead to more surveillance,
more negligent law enforcement actions, and an environment of suspicion and
fear.
Since 2012, EFF has been resisting the safety, privacy, and other threats of
ALPR technology through public records requests, litigation, and legislative
advocacy. You can learn more at our Street-Level Surveillance site.
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 4 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JILLIAN C. YORK | MAY 5, 2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY PAIGE COLLINGS | MAY 4, 2026
EFF Submission to UK Consultation
on Digital ID
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CHRISTOPH SCHMON | MAY 4, 2026
Getting Digital Fairness Right: EFF's
Recommendations for the EU's
Digital Fairness Act
EFF Sues DHS and ICE For Records
on Subpoenas Seeking to Unmask

--- page 5 ---
PRESS RELEASE | APRIL 22, 2026
Online Critics
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR, NATHAN SHEARD | APRIL
16, 2026
Stop New York's Attack on 3D
Printing
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY GUEST AUTHOR | APRIL 14, 2026
Google Broke Its Promise to Me.
Now ICE Has My Data.
EFF to State AGs: Investigate
Google's Broken Promise to Users

--- page 6 ---
PRESS RELEASE | APRIL 14, 2026
Targeted by the Government
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SARAH HAMID | APRIL 8, 2026
Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the
Arab Spring Fueled a Global
Surveillance Boom
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BETTY GEDLU | APRIL 2, 2026
Google and Amazon: Acknowledged
Risks, and Ignored Responsibilities
EFF’s Submission to the UN OHCHR
on Protection of Human Rights

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JILLIAN C. YORK, VERIDIANA
ALIMONTI | APRIL 2, 2026
Defenders in the Digital Age
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License