--- page 1 ---
"We Want Texans to Know Their
Rights": Q&A with Mayday Health
on the Impact of Surveillance on
Abortion Care
JULY 9, 2026
eff.org
Last May, EFF reported that a sheriff’s office in Texas searched data from more
than 83,000 automated license plate reader (ALPR) cameras to track down a
woman suspected of self-managing an abortion. ALPRs are promoted as tools
for keeping communities safe by finding missing persons and locating stolen
vehicles, but this case showed how ALPRS can be weaponized to investigate
people’s private healthcare decisions. And these aren’t the only tools in the
surveillance arsenal: others include location tracking tools like Locate X, which
can show a person’s visit to an abortion clinic, or search histories which might
be used as evidence of a person’s interest in obtaining abortion pills. Taken
together, these tools create a dangerous surveillance pipeline that threatens
everyone’s health privacy. 
Too often, though, the public is unaware of the threat, and one nonprofit is
working to change that. Following EFF and 404 Media’s report on Texas’s use
of Flock cameras, eye-catching billboards popped up in Houston, warning
drivers that if they’re pregnant, the state of Texas could be tracking them.

--- page 2 ---
Photo provided by Mayday Health
These billboards came from Mayday Health, a nonprofit dedicated to sharing
information about abortion pills, birth control, and gender-affirming care. We

--- page 3 ---
spoke with Leo Raisner, Executive Director of Mayday Health, about the
billboards to learn more about the campaign and organization and to discuss
how surveillance affects reproductive freedom. 
***
THOMAS: Why did Mayday Health start this campaign in Texas?  
RAISNER: Well, we read the incredible reporting coming from EFF about
Texas's surveillance. We want Texans to know their rights, to know their
options, and to know that there are organizations and people who have their
back. So we decided to put up a few billboards around the Houston area to
remind people that they still have options.  
Digital advertising in the space, as I know you're well aware of, faces enormous
platform restrictions from Meta and Google, whereas billboards reach people in
the physical world without algorithmic gatekeeping and without requiring
anyone to search for information. So at the very least, if a driver's passing by
the billboard, we’re spreading information that they should be careful that they
might be surveilled, and also there are different options. There's a website
where they can come learn more about those options. 
THOMAS: And how have the billboards been received so far? Have you heard
anything from folks in the Houston area yet?    
RAISNER: Yeah, we've heard some messages of support on social media DMs.
We're just thrilled about how many drivers these messages are going to reach.
They'll be up for 4 weeks, and are expected to hit over 1,000,000 drivers during
that 4-week campaign period.    
THOMAS: Are there other ways that Mayday Health has seen surveillance
systems impact people seeking healthcare?  
RAISNER: You know, we go all over the country and talk to folks who are
seeking reproductive healthcare options in states where clinics are banned, and
we direct folks to our website where they can learn more about abortion pills.
We make privacy very central to how we operate. Privacy is not just an
afterthought for us. When people arrive at our website, we direct them to the
Digital Defense Fund, which offers people privacy and security resources as
they're navigating reproductive healthcare in states where they might be being
surveilled. We don't collect cookies, we don't collect identifying information

--- page 4 ---
from visitors to our site. We want people to know their options, and we don't
have any interest in knowing who they are.  
THOMAS: Why do you think the work of the digital rights movement is so
important to the work of the reproductive health rights and justice
movement?  
RAISNER: I mean, those two movements are inextricably linked. The anti-
abortion movement is using every tool in their toolbox to prevent people from
getting the healthcare access they need, whether that's surveilling people
online or closing down brick-and-mortar clinics, but we encourage people to
visit Mayday Health and learn that they still have options no matter where they
live.  
THOMAS: Is there anything else that you would like the readers of our blog to
know about Mayday Health?    
RAISNER: I'd love for people to know that abortion pills are FDA approved.
They're safe, they're effective, and they're available through the mail. 
*** 
EFF has said it time and time again – surveillance and reproductive freedom
cannot coexist. Whether the tracking occurs over the internet or through license
plate reader systems with over 83,000 cameras, it is an invasion of privacy.
Protecting our digital privacy is more critical now than ever. Help EFF fight
back against this digital dragnet and protect reproductive freedom for all by
making a donation. 
Discover more. Join our email list for EFF news, events,
campaigns, and ways to support digital freedom.
POSTAL CODE (OPTIONAL)
EMAIL ADDRESS *

--- page 5 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY LISA FEMIA | JUNE 25, 2026
Four Years After Dobbs, Anti-
Abortion Lawmakers Keep Coming
for Online Speech
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY ALLISON MORRIS, BABETTE NGENE,
CORYNNE MCSHERRY, JILLIAN C. YORK, SARAH HAMID |
MARCH 6, 2026
Admiring Our Heroes for
International Women’s Day: Five
Women In Tech That EFF Admires
Defending Access to Abortion
Information Online: 2025 in Review
SIGN UP NOW
RELATED UPDATES
I would like to join EFF's email list for EFF news, events, campaigns, and ways to
support digital freedom.

--- page 6 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JENNIFER PINSOF | DECEMBER 26,
2025
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS, RINDALA ALAJAJI |
OCTOBER 7, 2025
Flock Safety and Texas Sheriff
Claimed License Plate Search Was for
a Missing Person. It Was an Abortion
Investigation.
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MOLLY BUCKLEY | OCTOBER 3, 2025
#StopCensoringAbortion: What We
Learned and Where We Go From Here
Tips to Protect Your Posts About
Reproductive Health From Being

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JASON KELLEY | OCTOBER 2, 2025
Removed
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MOLLY BUCKLEY | OCTOBER 1, 2025
Platforms Have Failed Us on Abortion
Content. Here's How They Can Fix It.
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY KENYATTA THOMAS | SEPTEMBER 26,
2025
The Abortion Hotline Meta Wants to
Go Dark
Meta is Removing Abortion
Advocates' Accounts Without

--- page 8 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY LISA FEMIA | SEPTEMBER 23, 2025
Warning
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY KENYATTA THOMAS | SEPTEMBER 22,
2025
Going Viral vs. Going Dark: Why
Extremism Trends and Abortion
Content Gets Censored
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License