--- page 1 ---
The High Crime of “LMAO”: How
Cops Are Treating Mass
Surveillance As a Joke
SEPTEMBER 14, 2026
eff.org
Here's a riddle: Why did a Goshen Police Department officer search 6,474
automated license plate reader (ALPR) networks, representing data from 82,413
cameras, on May 7, 2025? 
If your answer is "I don't know," it turns out you're 100% correct. The officer
left the letters "idk" in the search field where cops are supposed to document
the reason for the search.

--- page 2 ---
When law enforcement and tech salespeople pitch ALPRs to city councils, they
stick to a familiar script. They trumpet the technology, which is often provided
by private companies like Flock Safety, Motorola Solutions, or Axon, as an
essential tool for solving high-stakes crimes, such as car jacking, kidnapping,
or murder.
But when you strip away the carefully curated talking points, the data continues
to reveal a different (and frankly, ridiculous) story. An EFF analysis of ALPR
search logs from Flock Safety systems shows that officers across the country
are spying on drivers for completely nonsensical "reasons." Police are routinely
searching the Flock database without providing any legitimate justification,
making a mockery of our civil liberties by logging reasons like "LOL" (short for
“laugh out loud”), "LMAO" (short for "laughing my ass off"), "sexy," and
"idk" (short for “I don’t know”) to access sensitive ALPR location data.
And in some cases, officers are just mashing keyboard buttons rather than
articulating the nature of their searches.
Flock Safety claims it has improved its system by requiring officers to select
from a dropdown list of crimes before running a search–but that only makes it
easier for officers to hide improper searches behind the veneer of uniformity.
The system does not require proof that the dropdown reason actually matches
the true purpose of the search. 
With no warrant requirements, limited guardrails, and deficient audit
processes, ALPR databases have fostered a culture of unrestricted access to
everyone’s location information. This culture of abuse has allowed police to
treat a mass surveillance network like their own personal search engine,
permitting the tracking of the movements of everyday citizens for low-level
complaints, personal whims, and sometimes, seemingly, for the lols.
A Documented Culture of Abuse
ALPR misuse isn’t a new phenomenon; it has dominated headlines for more
than a year. We already know that officers regularly abuse these systems to
stalk past and potential romantic partners. We’ve seen ALPRs used to surveil
protests, which can chill First Amendment-protected dissent, and seen officers
try to use an ALPR system to track down a woman seeking an abortion.

--- page 3 ---
Typically, we learn about these uses from documents called "network audits,"
which are long spreadsheets that document all the searches that run through an
agency's system. It is not unusual for even a small agency to have a record of
millions of searches from thousands of external agencies across the United
States.
We’ve also uncovered horrific systemic profiling, with more than 80 law
enforcement agencies using terms like "roma" and "g*psy" to target ethnic
Romani people—often without any mention of a suspected crime. And when
police aren’t using ALPRs for stalking or profiling, they routinely use them for
extreme low-level investigations: verifying whether a student lives in a specific
school zone, running employment background checks, following up on loud
music complaints, or targeting a motorcyclist simply for holding a cell phone.
But somehow, it gets worse.
The Absurdity of Documented Search Reasons
EFF’s analysis of Flock Safety’s ALPR search data obtained through public
records requests has uncovered a disturbing trend. In the absence of judicial
oversight, officers are inputting ridiculously unserious terms to justify their
searches. Here is just a snapshot of what police consider a "reason" to track
someone’s vehicle:
Surveillance as a Joke

--- page 4 ---
Audit logs sample
Barberton Police Department (Ohio) employees ran numerous searches
between March 2024 and May 2026, listing “LOL” or “lol” as the reason.
Harris County Sheriff's Office (Texas) employees ran several searches
between April and May 2026 listing “LOL” or “lol” as the case number.
Lake County Sheriff's Department (Ind.) employees ran searches in July
2025 for “LMAO.”
Richmond Police Department (Calif.) employees ran over multiple searches
in November 2024 for “Hehe.”
Riverside County Sheriff's Department (Calif.) employees ran searches in
2024 for “Haha.”
"Don’t Know, Don’t Care" Approach
Kankakee County, Sheriff's Office (Ill.) employees ran searches (2023–
2025) for “idk” or “idk lol.”
Goshen Police Department (Ind.) ran searches (May–June 2025) for “idk.”
Fishers Police Department (Ind.) ran searches in May 2025 for “blah.”
A Pasco Police Department (Wash.) employee searched for at least four
different license plates, leaving "robbery i don't remember the case
number leave me alone" in the reason field.
The San Diego Sheriff's Department (Calif.) ran searches in May 2025 with
"idk" in the reason field. 
More than 30 agencies ran more than 6,300 searches with "TBD" (short for
"To Be Determined") as the "reason." These included the Arizona
Department of Public Safety, the Manteca Police Department (Calif.), and
the Baton Rouge Police Department (La.). The Priceville Police Department
(Ala.) alone ran 1,954 searches with reasons "TBD."

--- page 5 ---
Insults and Inappropriate Searches
Belton Police Department (Mo.) ran searches (Aug–Sept 2024) for
“d*ckhead.”  (asterisk/redaction our own)
A Manteca Police Department (Ill.) employee ran searches in June 2024 for
“sh*thead”  (asterisk/redaction our own)
A Norton Police Department (Mass.) employee ran searches in December
2024 for “Sexy.”
Corona Police Department (Calif.) employees ran searches (2023–2025) for
“weird” or “WEIRD KID.”
Thornton Police Department (Colo.) employees ran several searches in
October 2025 for “driving around being weird.”
A Columbus Police Department (Ohio) officer ran searches in 2023 for
“idiot.”
A Michigan City Police Department Officer (Ind.) ran searches in June 2025
listing “f*ck this new search engine.” (asterisk/redaction our own)
Button Mashing 
Button mashing audit logs sample
One of the more alarming discoveries we found in the network audit data is a
large number of "reasons" that appear to be nothing more than an officer
mashing buttons. These typically involve a nonsensical long string of
characters from the same line or area of the keyboard.
For example:

--- page 6 ---
An Eatonton Police Department (Ga.) employee ran searches with reasons
such as HJKNUILH, uiokjk.kuj, GJLHBNMN, hjhbnmg, and iuohjk.
An Atlanta Police Department (Ga.) employee ran searches with asdfga as
the reason. 
Bay County Sheriff's Office (Fla.) employees ran searches with reasons such
as  ;'lkjh, /lkjh and lkjhg.
A Brown County Sheriff's Office (Wis.) employee ran searches with reasons
such as gyghkkghghjkghjk, ggyjgyujdsrdghdfhjkghjghk,
HJHJKLHLKHJK, hjjkjkhjkljk and JHLJKHHJKL.
A Lake County Sheriff's Office (Ohio) employee ran searches with reasons
such as asdfg and ghjkl, and a second officer ran a series of searches that
started off with "investigation" but then devolved into button mashing,
including: 
Investigatafy, Investigatafyd, Investigatafydl, Investigatafydlh,
investigatafydlhj, investigatafydlhji, investigatafyfdlhji,
investigatafyfdlhjigkfgty, investigatafyfdlhjigkfgtyy,
investigatafyfdlhjij, investigatafyfdlhjik, investigatafyfdlhjikf,
investigatafyfdlhjikfg, investigatafyfdlhjikfgty,
investigatafyfdlhjikfgy and investigatafyfdlhjiy.
A Moore Police Department (Okla.) ran searches with reasons such as
jhjhjkhj, jhjkhjh, jhjkhjkh, jkhhkjhjk, Jkhjkhj, Jkhjkhjk, Jkhjkhjkh,
jkhjkhkjh, jkjkhjkh, kjjkhjk, loiuiou, ukjhjkh and ulkuiou.
A Westlake Police Department (Ohio) employee ran searches with reasons
such as fghjkl, ghjkl, and lkjhg.
A Kentucky State Police employee ran searches with reasons such as
mhghjk, mhgnhjkj, nbvcxcvbn, nmbvcbnm, and sdfghj. 
It's hard to imagine a situation where these characters add up to a legitimate
police code. However, it's easy to imagine an officer cutting corners with a text
field they know no one is checking, especially if they are accessing the Flock
Safety app from their phones while driving. 
How Police Departments Are Responding
When confronted with these flagrantly unserious searches, police departments
offered a mix of bureaucratic deflections and excuses. 
In response to EFF’s request for comment, Thornton Police Department (Colo.)
claimed the system didn't require officers to select from a defined list at the
time, but it does today. They also audited the “driving around being weird”
searches, claiming they were all actually for "legitimate public safety
purposes."

--- page 7 ---
Other police departments we reached out to for comment shared the following: 
Richmond Police Department (Calif.) stated that the officers involved with
the "Hehe" and "idk" searches were "counseled."
Corona Police Department (Calif.) noted that the employees searching for
"WEIRD KID" are no longer employed by the city for unrelated reasons.
Columbus Police Department (Ohio) pointed to their union contract, stating
their Inspector General only has jurisdiction to investigate incidents within
the last 90 days, giving the officer who searched for "idiot" in 2023 a free
pass.
Belton Police Department (Mo.) promised a "thorough investigation" of the
"d*ckhead" searches through existing union and personnel policies.
Manteno Police Department (Ill.) said it will "review the searches and the
circumstances surrounding them thoroughly" and "take whatever action is
determined to be appropriate based on the facts and circumstances.”
Manteca Police Department (Calif.) said: "Since the beginning of 2026, our
personnel have been directed that the reason field for ALPR searches must
identify the law enforcement purpose for the search and that 'TBD' is not
an acceptable entry." The spokesperson added: "The presence of 'TBD' in
the reason field in prior searches should not, by itself, be interpreted to
mean that the associated search was conducted without a legitimate law
enforcement purpose or that reasonable suspicion was required." EFF has
asked the agency to clarify whether it verified the hundreds of "TBD"
searches were legitimate, and we will update this post with a response if we
receive one. 
Fishers Police Department (Ind.) said that the detective that searched for
“blah” has done so “when he has issues with the technology” and that the
term “is used when he is actively using the technology to solve a criminal
case, and the technology is not moving fast enough for him.” The
department shared that “he has been told to use “test” in the future.”
The Cobb County Police Department (Ga.) acknowledged that "TBD" stood
for "To Be Determined" and is no longer an acceptable search reason: "We
have instituted a new policy that took place after the dates listed in your
audit that now require, in addition to a criminal offense and a reason, a
case number for any search conducted on FLOCK." 
The San Diego County Sheriff's Department says that it checked the cases
where "idk" was used and determined "there was an active investigation
associated with the searches." The department said that this was due to the
reason field being optional at the time (which was true on a software level)
but California law has required officers to document a purpose for accessing
ALPR data since 2015. The sheriff's spokesperson says the reason field is
now mandatory, and involves a dropdown menu. 
Other agencies did not respond to EFF’s requests for comment. We will update
with responses as they are received.

--- page 8 ---
The Cop Out of the Drop-Down Menu “Feature
Update”
Under the guise of streamlining audit logs, in late 2025, Flock safety announced
that they will be replacing the required, free-text search “reasons” with a pre-
populated dropdown menu of generic offense categories. Since this update,
officers are no longer required to type out why they are digging through a
driver's movement history, and instead can select a pre-packaged option like
"Traffic infraction" or “Other” in half a second. 
Replacing the requirement to articulate the reason for the search with one-click
searches is a loss for transparency, but also may explain why audit logs
including the searches we highlight in this piece significantly decreased since
early 2026. 
The Punchline is Our Privacy
Entries like these defeat transparency, undermine accountability, and entirely
fail to satisfy what many jurisdictions require by law or policy: an actual reason
for the search. And this keeps happening because police use ALPRs as a
convenient shortcut around constitutional privacy safeguards. 
In other contexts, such as searches of cell phone location information, police
have to go to a judge, demonstrate probable cause, and get a search warrant.

--- page 9 ---
But because laws and courts have not caught up with the pace of ALPR
technology, police do not do the same before searching ALPR databases.
Instead, they are given free rein to track a person’s movements without a sliver
of judicial oversight.
As we mention in our piece about the use of ALPR surveillance for low-level
investigations, if a police chief stood in front of a city council and asked for
permission to install hundreds of cameras just so his officers could investigate
the high crime of "haha," they would be laughed out of the room. The same
could be said if an officer asked a judge to sign a warrant to track someone
down for "LOL."
The fact that these searches were not only missed by the agency supervising the
officer, but by the often thousands of other agencies whose systems were
searched, demonstrates how agencies cannot be trusted to oversee themselves. 
Mass surveillance is incompatible with a free society, and especially so when
the people with access to this data are treating it like a joke. This ALPR mass
surveillance—the indiscriminate, continuous collection and retention of
location data on every driver, regardless of suspicion—should not exist. But
because it does, EFF continues to urge courts and state legislatures to
immediately step in and impose strict, enforceable restrictions to rein in this
abuse. At an absolute minimum, this means mandating rigid data deletion
deadlines and an ironclad warrant requirement. 
If police want the power to track a person's movements, they must be required
to convince a judge with evidence and probable cause. They should not be able
to bypass the Constitution with a search for "haha."
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 10 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY KAREN GULLO, ADAM SCHWARTZ |
SEPTEMBER 9, 2026
Cops Play Hide and Seek About Using
Spy Tech to Avoid Scrutiny and Bad
PR
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RINDALA ALAJAJI, ADAM SCHWARTZ |
SEPTEMBER 2, 2026
Texas and Florida Step Back from
ALPRs
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SARAH HAMID, ADAM SCHWARTZ,
HAYLEY TSUKAYAMA | AUGUST 26, 2026
EFF's Policy Position on ALPR
Surveillance: Eliminate It and Reduce
Its Harms

--- page 11 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MATTHEW GUARIGLIA | AUGUST 13,
2026
Too Little, Too Late: Flock Admits
Their Technology Needs Reforms
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS | JUNE 25, 2026
Are Your Local Police Using Flock
Safety ALPRs to Scan for
Immigrants?
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS | JUNE 2, 2026
We're Fighting Mass Surveillance
Tech—and Winning
More License Plate Reader Mission
Creep: School Residency Verification,

--- page 12 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS, RINDALA ALAJAJI | MAY
26, 2026
Background Checks, and Noise
Complaints
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Coalition Urges California to Revoke
Permits for Federal License Plate
Reader Surveillance
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MELISSA SRAGO | FEBRUARY 9, 2026
EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out
of Our City
ICE Is Going on a Surveillance
Shopping Spree

--- page 13 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY COOPER QUINTIN | JANUARY 7, 2026
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License