VICTORY! California Department of Justice Declares Out-of-State Sharing of License Plate Data Unlawful | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give VICTORY! California Department of Justice Declares Out-of-State Sharing of License Plate Data Unlawful DEEPLINKS BLOG By Dave Maass and Jennifer Pinsof October 31, 2023 VICTORY! California Department of Justice Declares Out-of-State Sharing of License Plate Data Unlawful Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link California Attorney General Rob Bonta has issued a legal interpretation and guidance for law enforcement agencies around the state that confirms what privacy advocates have been saying for years: It is against the law for police to share data collected from license plate readers with out-of-state or federal agencies. This is an important victory for immigrants, abortion seekers, protesters, and everyone else who drives a car, as our movements expose intimate details about where we’ve been and what we’ve been doing. Automated license plate readers (ALPRs) are cameras that capture the movements of vehicles and upload the location of the vehicles to a searchable, shareable database. Law enforcement often installs these devices on fixed locations, such as street lights, as well as on patrol vehicles that are used to canvass neighborhoods. It is a mass surveillance technology that collects data on everyone. In fact, EFF research has found that more than 99.9% of the data collected is unconnected to any crime or other public safety interest. The California State legislature passed SB 34 in 2015 to require basic safeguards for the use of ALPRs. These include a prohibition on California agencies from sharing data with non-California agencies. They also include the publication of a usage policy that is consistent with civil liberties and privacy. As EFF and other groups such as the ACLU of California, MuckRock News , and the Center for Human Rights and Privacy have demonstrated over and over again through public records requests , many California agencies have either ignored or defied these policies, putting Californians at risk. In some cases, agencies have shared data with hundreds of out-of-state agencies (including in states with abortion restrictions) and with federal agencies (such as U.S. Customs & Border Protection and U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement). This surveillance is especially threatening to vulnerable populations, such as migrants and abortion seekers , whose rights are protected in California but not recognized by other states or the federal government. In 2019, EFF successfully lobbied the legislature to order the California State Auditor to investigate the use of ALPR. The resulting report came out in 2020, with damning findings that agencies were flagrantly violating the law. While state lawmakers have introduced legislation to address the findings, so far no bill has passed. In the absence of new legislative action, Attorney General Bonta's new memo, grounded in SB 34, serves as canon for how local agencies should treat ALPR data. The bulletin comes after EFF and the California ACLU affiliates sued the Marin County Sheriff in 2021, because his agency was violating SB 34 by sending its ALPR data to federal agencies including ICE and CBP. The case was favorably settled . Attorney General Bonta’s guidance also follows new advocacy by these groups earlier this year. Along with the ACLU of Northern California and the ACLU of Southern California, EFF released public records from more than 70 law enforcement agencies in California that showed they were sharing data with states that have enacted abortion restrictions. We sent letters to each of the agencies demanding they end the sharing immediately. Dozens complied. Some disagreed with our determination, but nonetheless agreed to pursue new policies to protect abortion access. Now California’s top law enforcement officer has determined that out-of-state data sharing is illegal and has drafted a model policy. Every agency in California must follow Attorney General Bonta's guidance, review their data sharing, and cut off every out-of-state and federal agency. Or better yet, they could end their ALPR program altogether. Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Locational Privacy Related Cases Lagleva v. Marin County Sheriff Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | April 8, 2026 Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the Arab Spring Fueled a Global Surveillance Boom When people remember the 2011 uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), they picture crowded squares, raised phones, and the feeling that the internet had finally shifted the balance of power toward ordinary people. But the past decade and a half is also a story about how governments... Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | March 26, 2026 Traffic Violation! License Plate Reader Mission Creep Is Already Here A new report from 404 Media sheds light on how automated license plate readers (ALPRs) could be used beyond the press releases and glossy marketing materials put out by law enforcement agencies and ALPR vendors. Press Release | March 3, 2026 EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down Unconstitutional Geofence Searches The brief argues that geofence warrants—which compel companies to provide information on every electronic device in a given area during a given time period—are the digital version of the exploratory rummaging that the drafters of the Fourth Amendment specifically intended to prevent. Deeplinks Blog by Saira Hussain | February 26, 2026 Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad Search of Protesters’ Devices and Digital Data In a big win for protesters’ rights, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit overturned a lower court’s dismissal of a challenge to sweeping warrants to search a protester’s devices and digital data and a nonprofit’s social media data.The case, Armendariz v. City of Colorado Springs ,... Deeplinks Blog by Jennifer Pinsof | February 17, 2026 San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System As ICE and other federal agencies continue their assault on civil liberties, local leaders are stepping up to protect their communities. This includes pushing back against automated license plate readers, or ALPRs, which are tools of mass surveillance that can be weaponized against immigrants, political dissidents and other targets. Press Release | February 17, 2026 New Report Helps Journalists Dig Deeper Into Police Surveillance Technology SAN FRANCISCO — A new report released today offers journalists tips on cutting through the sales hype about police surveillance technology and report accurately on costs, benefits, privacy, and accountability as these invasive and often ineffective tools come to communities across the nation. The “Selling Safety” ... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton , Sarah Hamid | February 11, 2026 “Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes at a High and Dangerous Cost Surveillance technology vendors, federal agencies, and wealthy private donors have long helped provide local law enforcement “free” access to surveillance equipment that bypasses local oversight. The result is predictable: serious accountability gaps and data pipelines to other entities, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) , that expose millions of... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton | February 10, 2026 No One, Including Our Furry Friends, Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance Nightmare Amazon Ring’s Super Bowl ad offered a vision of our streets that should leave every person unsettled about the company’s goals for disintegrating our privacy in public.In the ad, disguised as a heartfelt effort to reunite the lost dogs of the country with their innocent owners, the company previewed future... Press Release | February 10, 2026 Coalition Urges California to Revoke Permits for Federal License Plate Reader Surveillance SAN FRANCISCO – California must revoke permits allowing federal agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to put automated license plate readers along border highways, a coalition led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Imperial Valley Equity & ... Deeplinks Blog by Melissa Srago | February 9, 2026 EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out of Our City Flock contracts have quietly spread to cities across the country. But Flock ALPR (Automated License Plate Readers) erode civil liberties from the moment they're installed. While officials claim these cameras keep neighborhoods safe, the evidence tells a different story. The data reveals how Flock has enabled surveillance of people seeking... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Locational Privacy Related cases Lagleva v. Marin County Sheriff Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information