San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System DEEPLINKS BLOG By Jennifer Pinsof February 17, 2026 San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Español (This appeared as an op-ed published February 12, 2026 in the San Jose Spotlight , written by Huy Tran (SIREN), Jeffrey Wang (CAIR-SFBA), and Jennifer Pinsof.) As ICE and other federal agencies continue their assault on civil liberties, local leaders are stepping up to protect their communities. This includes pushing back against automated license plate readers, or ALPRs, which are tools of mass surveillance that can be weaponized against immigrants, political dissidents and other targets. In recent weeks, Mountain View, Los Altos Hills, Santa Cruz, East Palo Alto and Santa Clara County have begun reconsidering their ALPR programs. San Jose should join them. This dangerous technology poses an unacceptable risk to the safety of immigrants and other vulnerable populations. ALPRs are marketed to promote public safety. But their utility is debatable and they come with significant drawbacks. They don’t just track “criminals.” They track everyone, all the time. Your vehicle’s movements can reveal where you work, worship and obtain medical care. ALPR vendors like Flock Safety put the location information of millions of drivers into databases, allowing anyone with access to instantly reconstruct the public’s movements. But “anyone with access” is far broader than just local police. Some California law enforcement agencies have used ALPR networks to run searches related to immigration enforcement . In other situations, purported issues with the system’s software have enabled federal agencies to directly access California ALPR data. This is despite the promises of ALPR vendors and clear legal prohibitions. Communities are saying enough is enough. Just last week, police in Mountain View decided to turn off all of the city’s Flock cameras , following revelations that federal and other unauthorized agencies had accessed their network . The cameras will remain inactive until the City Council provides further direction. Other localities have shut off the cameras for good. In January, Los Altos Hills terminated its contract with Flock following concerns about ICE. Santa Cruz severed relations with Flock , citing rising tensions with ICE. Most recently, East Palo Alto and Santa Clara County are reconsidering whether to continue their relationships with Flock, given heightened concern for the safety of immigrant communities. California law prohibits local police from disclosing ALPR data to out-of-state or federal agencies. But at least 75 California police agencies were sharing these records out-of-state as recently as 2023. Just last year, San Francisco police allowed access to out-of-state agencies and 19 searches were related to ICE . Even without direct access, ICE can exploit local ALPR systems. One investigation found more than 4,000 cases where police had made searches on behalf of federal law enforcement, including for immigration investigations. Increasing the risk is that law enforcement routinely searches these networks without first obtaining a warrant. In San Jose, police aren’t required to have any suspicion of wrongdoing before searching ALPR databases, which contain a year’s worth of data representing hundreds of millions of records. In a little over a year, San Jose police logged more than 261,000 ALPR searches , or nearly 700 searches a day, all without a warrant. Two nonprofit organizations, SIREN and CAIR California, represented by Electronic Frontier Foundation and the ACLU of Northern California, are currently suing to stop San Jose’s warrantless searches of ALPR data . But this is only the first step. A better solution is to simply turn these cameras off. San Jose cannot afford delay. Each day these cameras remain active, they collect sensitive location data that can be misused to target immigrant families and violate fundamental freedoms. It is a risk materializing across California. City leaders must act now to shut down ALPR systems and make clear that public safety will not come at the expense of privacy, human dignity or community trust. Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Related Cases SIREN and CAIR-CA v. San Jose Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | April 8, 2026 Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the Arab Spring Fueled a Global Surveillance Boom When people remember the 2011 uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), they picture crowded squares, raised phones, and the feeling that the internet had finally shifted the balance of power toward ordinary people. But the past decade and a half is also a story about how governments... Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | March 26, 2026 Traffic Violation! License Plate Reader Mission Creep Is Already Here A new report from 404 Media sheds light on how automated license plate readers (ALPRs) could be used beyond the press releases and glossy marketing materials put out by law enforcement agencies and ALPR vendors. Press Release | March 3, 2026 EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down Unconstitutional Geofence Searches The brief argues that geofence warrants—which compel companies to provide information on every electronic device in a given area during a given time period—are the digital version of the exploratory rummaging that the drafters of the Fourth Amendment specifically intended to prevent. Deeplinks Blog by Saira Hussain | February 26, 2026 Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad Search of Protesters’ Devices and Digital Data In a big win for protesters’ rights, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit overturned a lower court’s dismissal of a challenge to sweeping warrants to search a protester’s devices and digital data and a nonprofit’s social media data.The case, Armendariz v. City of Colorado Springs ,... Press Release | February 17, 2026 New Report Helps Journalists Dig Deeper Into Police Surveillance Technology SAN FRANCISCO — A new report released today offers journalists tips on cutting through the sales hype about police surveillance technology and report accurately on costs, benefits, privacy, and accountability as these invasive and often ineffective tools come to communities across the nation. The “Selling Safety” ... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton , Sarah Hamid | February 11, 2026 “Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes at a High and Dangerous Cost Surveillance technology vendors, federal agencies, and wealthy private donors have long helped provide local law enforcement “free” access to surveillance equipment that bypasses local oversight. The result is predictable: serious accountability gaps and data pipelines to other entities, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) , that expose millions of... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton | February 10, 2026 No One, Including Our Furry Friends, Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance Nightmare Amazon Ring’s Super Bowl ad offered a vision of our streets that should leave every person unsettled about the company’s goals for disintegrating our privacy in public.In the ad, disguised as a heartfelt effort to reunite the lost dogs of the country with their innocent owners, the company previewed future... Press Release | February 10, 2026 Coalition Urges California to Revoke Permits for Federal License Plate Reader Surveillance SAN FRANCISCO – California must revoke permits allowing federal agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to put automated license plate readers along border highways, a coalition led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Imperial Valley Equity & ... Deeplinks Blog by Melissa Srago | February 9, 2026 EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out of Our City Flock contracts have quietly spread to cities across the country. But Flock ALPR (Automated License Plate Readers) erode civil liberties from the moment they're installed. While officials claim these cameras keep neighborhoods safe, the evidence tells a different story. The data reveals how Flock has enabled surveillance of people seeking... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton | January 16, 2026 Baton Rouge Acquires a Straight-Up Military Surveillance Drone The Baton Rouge Police Department announced this week that it will begin using a drone designed by military equipment manufacturer Lockheed Martin and Edge Autonomy, making it one of the first local police departments to use an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with a history of primary use in foreign... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Related cases SIREN and CAIR-CA v. San Jose Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information