Technology's Power in the Hands of the People | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today EFFecting Change: How to Build a Decentralized Web That Truly Works for All on September 17 Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Technology's Power in the Hands of the People DEEPLINKS BLOG By Aaron Jue August 4, 2026 Technology's Power in the Hands of the People Image by Hannah Diaz/EFF (CC-by) In the scorching heat of every Las Vegas summer, EFF joins thousands of hackers, makers, policy analysts, and activists for the world's largest computer security gathering. If you're there during this summer security week, be sure to say hello to us at BSides Las Vegas , Black Hat Briefings , and DEF CON 34 . While tech companies align with governments to target the people, our community is harnessing technology to fight back. Will you lend your support this year? JOIN EFF EFF’s relentless work in the legal system makes a meaningful difference for privacy and free expression everywhere. But we also know that your rights won't wait while the wheels of justice turn. Sometimes hacking the system means creating tools and resources to protect your rights today. That includes EFF’s Privacy Badger , Certbot , Surveillance Self-Defense guide , and the countless security trainings that our team conducts for vulnerable populations— all thanks to EFF member support . Technology is inseparable from our workplaces, schools, healthcare, the justice system, and our democratic process. If you think tech should benefit everyone and not just accumulate wealth and control for the powerful, then congratulations: We'd like to welcome you to the team. Hayley and Joe take a break from EFF’s Activism Team to show off EFF’s DEF CON member t-shirt. For a limited time only: Get EFF’s “Many Hands Make Light Work” t-shirt designed for the DEF CON 34 hacker conference by EFF artist Hannah Diaz. Don’t miss the link to the online puzzle incorporated into the design! With the strength of community and the spirit of curiosity, we can hack anything. Many thanks to our puzzlemasters Aaron Steimle (AKA Elegin ) and Kevin Hulin (AKA CryptoK ). Elegin is our longtime collaborator on the EFF shirt puzzle, and previously a multiyear winner of this very contest. CryptoK is a crypto puzzle enthusiast and also develops challenges for the DEF CON Crypto and Privacy Village's Gold Bug Contest. Members can also choose from EFF’s puffy stickers, the internet tracker-obsessed Privacy Badger embroidered sweatshirt, and our ALPR-focused “Claw Back” t-shirt. EFF member t-shirt designs: Claw Back and Many Hands Make Light Work EFF fights to protect fundamental rights for everyone, and your privacy and free expression have never been more important. Support the cause today! Together we can make sure that technology supports freedom, justice, and innovation for all people. Related Issues Coders' Rights Project Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Andrew Crocker | August 4, 2026 Appeals Court Agrees with EFF that Building a Web Browser Doesn’t Violate the CFAA The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has endorsed a commonsense technical interpretation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), a law not usually given to such interpretation. Amazon had sued Perplexity AI to try to shut down its Comet browser, claiming the browser’s optional agentic AI “Assistant” that... Deeplinks Blog by Tierney Hamilton | August 4, 2025 Digital Rights Are Everyone’s Business, and Yours Can Join the Fight! Companies large and small are doubling down on digital rights , and we’re excited to see more and more of them join EFF. We’re first and always an organization who fights for users, so you might be asking: Why does EFF work with corporate donors, and why do they want... Deeplinks Blog by Veridiana Alimonti | April 23, 2025 Six Years of Dangerous Misconceptions Targeting Ola Bini and Digital Rights in Ecuador Ola Bini was first detained in Quito’s airport six years ago, called a “Russian hacker,” and accused of “alleged participation in the crime of assault on the integrity of computer systems.” It wouldn't take long for Ecuadorean authorities to find out that he was Swedish and an ... Deeplinks Blog by Hayley Tsukayama | November 8, 2024 Celebrating the Life of Aaron Swartz: Aaron Swartz Day 2024 Aaron Swartz was a digital rights champion who believed deeply in keeping the internet open. His life was cut short in 2013, after federal prosecutors charged him under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) for systematically downloading academic journal articles from the online database JSTOR. Facing the... Deeplinks Blog by Hannah Zhao, Thorin Klosowski , Andrew Crocker | August 15, 2024 2 Fast 2 Legal: How EFF Helped a Security Researcher During DEF CON 32 Enter the EFF Coders’ Rights Project, designed to help programmers, tinkerers, and innovators who wish to responsibly explore technologies and report on those findings. Our Coders Rights lawyers counsel many of those who reach out to us on anything from mitigating legal risk in their talks, to reporting vulnerabilities they’ve... Deeplinks Blog by Rory Mir | August 15, 2024 EFF Honored as DEF CON 32 Uber Contributor At DEF CON 32 this year, the Electronic Frontier Foundation became the first organization to be given the Uber Contributor award. This award recognizes EFF’s work in education and litigation, naming us “Defenders of the Hacker Spirit.” Deeplinks Blog by Aaron Jue | August 6, 2024 Support Justice for Digital Creators and Tech Users EFF takes tough stances and tackles complicated problems for tech creators and users because it’s the right thing to do. You can help us defend online privacy and free speech for everyone. Deeplinks Blog by Aaron Jue | August 6, 2024 EFF at the Las Vegas Hacker Conferences Las Vegas is blazing hot and that means it's time for EFF to return to the hacker summer camp conferences—BSidesLV, Black Hat USA and DEF CON—to rally behind computer security researchers and tinkerers. Find all of EFF's scheduled talks and activities at the conferences right here. Deeplinks Blog by Katitza Rodriguez | June 14, 2024 If Not Amended, States Must Reject the Flawed Draft UN Cybercrime Convention Criminalizing Security Research and Certain Journalism Activities This is the first post in a series highlighting the problems and flaws in the proposed UN Cybercrime Convention. Check out The UN Cybercrime Draft Convention is a Blank Check for Surveillance Abuses . The latest and nearly final version of the proposed UN Cybercrime Convention —dated May 23, 2024... Deeplinks Blog by Karen Gullo | April 1, 2024 Ola Bini Faces Ecuadorian Prosecutors Seeking to Overturn Acquittal of Cybercrime Charge Ola Bini, the software developer acquitted last year of cybercrime charges in a unanimous verdict in Ecuador, was back in court last week in Quito as prosecutors, using the same evidence that helped clear him, asked an appeals court to overturn the decision with bogus allegations of unauthorized access... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Coders' Rights Project Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information