--- page 1 ---
California Auditor Releases
Damning Report About Law
Enforcement’s Use of Automated
License Plate Readers
FEBRUARY 13, 2020
eff.org
 California police and sheriffs are failing to protect the privacy of drivers on city
streets, the California State Auditor’s office determined after a seven-month
investigation into the use of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) by the
Los Angeles Police Department and three other local law enforcement
agencies. California State Senator Scott Wiener sponsored the State Auditor’s
report.
The auditor raised a long list of concerns, including fundamental problems
with police ALPR policies, failure to conduct audits, and the risk of ALPR data
being abused to surveil political rallies or target immigrant populations. In
addition to Los Angeles, the auditor investigated the Fresno Police
Department, Sacramento County Sheriff’s Office, and Marin County Sheriff’s
Office. The auditor indicated that the problems are likely prevalent across 230
California law enforcement agencies using ALPRs.
The report is a damning assessment of how California law enforcement
agencies use this mass-surveillance technology, which employs  computer-
controlled, high-speed cameras mounted on street lights, on top of police cars,

--- page 2 ---
or speed-monitoring trailers that automatically capture images of every vehicle
that drives by, without drivers’ knowledge or permission. The cameras capture
the exact time and place a license plate was seen, and often compares that
data point to hot lists of “people of interest” to police. The cameras are
capable of capturing millions of data points, which, taken in the aggregate, can
paint an intimate portrait of a driver’s life and even chill First Amendment
protected activity.
Read the State Auditor’s Report.
Among the auditor’s key findings:
The four agencies’ “[p]oorly developed and incomplete policies contributed
to the agencies’ failure to implement ALPR programs that reflect the
privacy principles” required by state law.
“Instead of ensuring that only authorized users access their ALPR data for
appropriate purposes, the agencies we reviewed have made abuse possible
by neglecting to institute sufficient monitoring.”
“A member of law enforcement could misuse ALPR images to stalk an
individual or observe vehicles at particular locations and events, such as
doctors’ offices or clinics and political rallies. Despite these risks, the
agencies we reviewed conduct little to no auditing of users’ searches.”
“[A]gencies have not based their decisions regarding how long to retain
their ALPR images on the documented usefulness of those images to
investigators, and they may be retaining the images longer than necessary,
increasing the risk to individuals’ privacy.”
“We found that the three agencies storing ALPR data in Vigilant’s cloud—
Fresno, Marin, and Sacramento—do not have sufficient data security
safeguards in their contracts.”
While the California Department of Justice has guidelines on protecting
police data from federal immigration enforcement activities, “agencies
were either unaware of these guidelines or had not implemented them for
their ALPR systems.”
ALPRs allow police to upload our movements to massive databases.That
enables them and others to analyze our travel patterns, identify visitors to
specific locations, and receive real-time alerts on specific cars through “hot
lists.” For more than eight years, EFF has raised concerns about the
technology because it can reveal sensitive information about all drivers,
regardless of whether they are suspected of connection to criminal activity. In
2015, EFF supported legislation—S.B. 34—to require agencies to implement
policies that protect civil liberties and privacy, and to maintain a detailed log of
every time someone accesses ALPR data.

--- page 3 ---
Last summer, EFF worked with Sen. Wiener to request the California State
Auditor to conduct an audit of ALPRs used by law enforcement agencies
throughout the state and to assess whether agencies are complying with S.B.
34. Based on our own research, we demonstrated to legislators how police,
sheriffs, and other agencies were routinely flouting a state law requiring
transparency and accountability designed to protect the public’s privacy and
civil liberties. This included failure to keep track of system searches and
publish their usage policies online. We also drew attention to the fact that
agencies are collecting far more information than they need and are sharing
the data indiscriminately with hundreds other agencies across the country.
Over the last seven months, the state auditor’s staff spent 2,800 hours
surveying every police and sheriff’s department in the state and conducting
deep-dives of four agencies.
The auditor made many recommendations. The California legislature should
amend state law to require the California Justice Department to draft and
publish a template for ALPR policies that local law enforcement agencies can
use as a model. The Justice Department should also issue guidelines about
security requirements agencies should follow to protect ALPR data. The
amended law must establish rules about how long ALPR data can be retained,
including data that is used to link persons of interest with license plate
images. Periodic evaluations of data retention policies should be conducted to
ensure that police are keeping data for the shortest time as practical, the
auditor said. The four law enforcement agencies investigated should review
and revise their ALPR policies and do an assessment of their data security
practices by August. 
The auditor found that 230 agencies in California were deploying ALPRs, with
the majority using Vigilant Solutions to collect, store, and analyze the data. An
additional 36 agencies planned to deploy ALPRs in the near future. This is the
first time that a comprehensive list of ALPR users in California has been
compiled. 
Learn about which agencies are using automated license plate readers here.
Of the agencies that use ALPR systems, 96 percent said that they had ALPR
policies.  But, as the audit reveals, many of the policies that agencies have in
place are insufficient. The agencies audited in Fresno, Marin, and Sacramento
did not cover who has access to the system, or how the agency monitors use of
the system to comply with privacy laws. The Los Angeles Police Department,
which has an ALPR database of 320 million images, had no policy specifically

--- page 4 ---
dealing with its ALPR systems at all. The department said that its existing
information technology policies adequately covered the system—a belief that
the auditor’s office did not share.
The audit also reveals that the four departments it examined closely are
sharing data from ALPR systems broadly—between those agencies, ALPR data
are shared with entities in 44 out of 50 states. The Sacramento County’s
Sheriff’s Office alone shares with more than 1,000 entities.
Agencies also retain data for varying periods of time, some very long. The Los
Angeles Police Department, for example, keeps information from ALPR systems
for five years. Information contained in these systems, the audit found, include
not only license plate information but also personal information such as name,
address, date of birth, and even some criminal justice data such as arrest
record.
All four agencies, the report found, lacked sufficient safeguards for managing
which employees can see the data from their systems, such as a policy that
requires supervisory approval for establishing an account to access an ALPR
system.
Problems likely extend far beyond the four agencies profiled. “We are
concerned that the policy deficiencies we found are not limited to the agencies
we reviewed, and thus law enforcement agencies of all types may benefit from
guidance to improve their policies,” the report said.
Based on the outcome of the audit, EFF asks the state legislature to enact new
safeguards to limit how police use this technology. 
Agencies must create and define a clear process for adding and removing
vehicles from hot lists, and limit hot lists to only the most serious of
crimes.
Agencies must not retain any data about vehicles that do not match a
vehicle included on such a hotlist. [Corrected]
Agencies should not use ALPR data collected or stored by a private
company.
Agencies should follow the state of Maryland’s lead and disclose on an
annual basis how many fixed and mobile license plate readers they have,
how many license plates they scanned, how many of those scans matched
a hot list, how many times agencies outside the state requested and
received data, the results of all audits, and any breaches of the system that
occurred.
Forbid the use of predictive algorithms based on ALPR data.

--- page 5 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SARAH HAMID | APRIL 8, 2026
Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the
Arab Spring Fueled a Global
Surveillance Boom
Traffic Violation! License Plate
Reader Mission Creep Is Already
Here
Place a statewide moratorium on government use of ALPRs, similar to the
moratorium on mobile face recognition passed last session.
ALPR technology can be used to target drivers who visit sensitive places such
as health centers, immigration clinics, gun shops, union halls, protests, or
centers of religious worship—all without drivers’ permission or knowledge.
This report clearly demonstrates the ways that these agencies are failing
California drivers—and raises serious questions about how entities across the
country use and access ALPR data. 
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 6 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MATTHEW GUARIGLIA | MARCH 26,
2026
PRESS RELEASE | MARCH 3, 2026
EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down
Unconstitutional Geofence Searches
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SAIRA HUSSAIN | FEBRUARY 26, 2026
Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth
Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad
Search of Protesters’ Devices and
Digital Data
San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by
Ending Flock Surveillance System

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JENNIFER PINSOF | FEBRUARY 17,
2026
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 17, 2026
New Report Helps Journalists Dig
Deeper Into Police Surveillance
Technology
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BERYL LIPTON, SARAH HAMID |
FEBRUARY 11, 2026
“Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes
at a High and Dangerous Cost
No One, Including Our Furry Friends,
Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance

--- page 8 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BERYL LIPTON | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Nightmare
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Coalition Urges California to Revoke
Permits for Federal License Plate
Reader Surveillance
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MELISSA SRAGO | FEBRUARY 9, 2026
EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out
of Our City
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License