--- page 1 ---
How Cops Are Using Flock Safety's
ALPR Network to Surveil Protesters
and Activists
NOVEMBER 20, 2025
eff.org
It's no secret that 2025 has given Americans plenty to protest about. But as
news cameras showed protesters filling streets of cities across the country, law
enforcement officers—including U.S. Border Patrol agents—were quietly
watching those same streets through different lenses: Flock Safety automated
license plate readers (ALPRs) that tracked every passing car. 
Through an analysis of 10 months of nationwide searches on Flock Safety's
servers, we discovered that more than 50 federal, state, and local agencies ran
hundreds of searches through Flock's national network of surveillance data in
connection with protest activity. In some cases, law enforcement specifically
targeted known activist groups, demonstrating how mass surveillance
technology increasingly threatens our freedom to demonstrate. 
Flock Safety provides ALPR technology to thousands of law enforcement
agencies. The company installs cameras throughout their jurisdictions, and
these cameras photograph every car that passes, documenting the license
plate, color, make, model and other distinguishing characteristics. This data is
paired with time and location, and uploaded to a massive searchable database.
Flock Safety encourages agencies to share the data they collect broadly with
other agencies across the country. It is common for an agency to search

--- page 2 ---
thousands of networks nationwide even when they don't have reason to
believe a targeted vehicle left the region. 
Via public records requests, EFF obtained datasets representing more than 12
million searches logged by more than 3,900 agencies between December 2024
and October 2025. The data shows that agencies logged hundreds of searches
related to the 50501 protests in February, the Hands Off protests in April, the
No Kings protests in June and October, and other protests in between. 
The Tulsa Police Department in Oklahoma was one of the most consistent
users of Flock Safety's ALPR system for investigating protests, logging at least
38 such searches. This included running searches that corresponded to a
protest against deportation raids in February, a protest at Tulsa City Hall in
support of pro-Palestinian activist Mahmoud Khalil in March, and the No
Kings protest in June. During the most recent No Kings protests in mid-
October, agencies such as the Lisle Police Department in Illinois, the Oro Valley
Police Department in Arizona, and the Putnam County (Tenn.) Sheriff's Office
all ran protest-related searches. 
While EFF and other civil liberties groups argue the law should require a search
warrant for such searches, police are simply prompted to enter text into a
"reason" field in the Flock Safety system. Usually this is only a few words–or
even just one.
In these cases, that word was often just “protest.” 
Crime does sometimes occur at protests, whether that's property damage,
pick-pocketing, or clashes between groups on opposite sides of a protest.
Some of these searches may have been tied to an actual crime that occurred,
even though in most cases officers did not articulate a criminal offense when
running the search. But the truth is, the only reason an officer is able to even
search for a suspect at a protest is because ALPRs collected data on every single
person who attended the protest. 
Search and Dissent 
2025 was an unprecedented year of street action. In June and again in October,
thousands across the country mobilized under the banner of the “No Kings”
movement—marches against government overreach, surveillance, and
corporate power. By some estimates, the October demonstrations ranked

--- page 3 ---
among the largest single-day protests in U.S. history, filling the streets from
Washington, D.C., to Portland, OR. 
EFF identified 19 agencies that logged dozens of searches associated with the
No Kings protests in June and October 2025. In some cases the "No Kings"
was explicitly used, while in others the term "protest" was used but coincided
with the massive protests.
Law Enforcement Agencies that Ran Searches Corresponding with "No
Kings" Rallies
Anaheim Police Department, Calif.
Arizona Department of Public Safety
Beaumont Police Department, Texas
Charleston Police Department, SC
Flagler County Sheriff's Office, Fla.
Georgia State Patrol
Lisle Police Department, Ill.
Little Rock Police Department, Ark.
Marion Police Department, Ohio
Morristown Police Department, Tenn.
Oro Valley Police Department, Ariz.
Putnam County Sheriff's Office, Tenn.
Richmond Police Department, Va.
Riverside County Sheriff's Office, Calif.
Salinas Police Department, Calif.
San Bernardino County Sheriff's Office, Calif.
Spartanburg Police Department, SC
Tempe Police Department, Ariz.
Tulsa Police Department, Okla.
US Border Patrol
For example: 
In Washington state, the Spokane County Sheriff's Office listed "no kings"
as the reason for three searches on June 15, 2025 [Note: date corrected].
The agency queried 95 camera networks, looking for vehicles matching the
description of "work van," "bus" or "box truck." 
In Texas, the Beaumont Police Department ran six searches related to two
vehicles on June 14, 2025, listing "KINGS DAY PROTEST" as the reason.
The queries reached across 1,774 networks. 
In California, the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Office ran a single search
for a vehicle across 711 networks, logging "no king" as the reason. 
In Arizona, the Tempe Police Department made three searches for "ATL No
Kings Protest" on June 15, 2025 searching through 425 networks. "ATL" is
police code for "attempt to locate." The agency appears to not have been

--- page 4 ---
looking for a particular plate, but for any red vehicle on the road during a
certain time window.
But the No Kings protests weren't the only demonstrations drawing law
enforcement's digital dragnet in 2025. 
For example:
In Nevada's state capital, the Carson City Sheriff's Office ran three
searches that correspond to the February 50501 Protests against DOGE and
the Trump administration. The agency searched for two vehicles across 178
networks with "protest" as the reason.
In Florida, the Seminole County Sheriff's Office logged "protest" for five
searches that correspond to a local May Day rally.
In Alabama, the Homewood Police Department logged four searches in
early July 2025 for three vehicles with "PROTEST CASE" and "PROTEST
INV." in the reason field. The searches, which probed 1,308 networks,
correspond to protests against the police shooting of Jabari Peoples.
In Texas, the Lubbock Police Department ran two searches for a Tennessee
license plate on March 15 that corresponds to a rally to highlight the
mental health impact of immigration policies. The searches hit 5,966
networks, with the logged reason "protest veh."
In Michigan, Grand Rapids Police Department ran five searches that
corresponded with the Stand Up and Fight Back Rally in February. The
searches hit roughly 650 networks, with the reason logged as "Protest."
Some agencies have adopted policies that prohibit using ALPRs for monitoring
activities protected by the First Amendment. Yet many officers probed the
nationwide network with terms like "protest" without articulating an actual
crime under investigation.
In a few cases, police were using Flock’s ALPR network to investigate threats
made against attendees or incidents where motorists opposed to the protests
drove their vehicle into crowds. For example, throughout June 2025, an
Arizona Department of Public Safety officer logged three searches for “no
kings rock threat,” and a Wichita (Kan.) Police Department officer logged 22
searches for various license plates under the reason “Crime Stoppers Tip of
causing harm during protests.”
Even when law enforcement is specifically looking for vehicles engaged in
potentially criminal behavior such as threatening protesters, it cannot be
ignored that mass surveillance systems work by collecting data on everyone
driving to or near a protest—not just those under suspicion.

--- page 5 ---
USBP has made extensive use of Flock
Safety's system for immigration
enforcement, but also to target those
who object to its tactics.
Border Patrol's Expanding Reach 
As U.S. Border Patrol (USBP), ICE, and other federal agencies tasked with
immigration enforcement have massively expanded operations into major
cities, advocates for immigrants have responded through organized rallies,
rapid-response confrontations, and extended presences at federal facilities. 
USBP has made extensive use of Flock Safety's system for immigration
enforcement, but also to target those who object to its tactics. In June, a few
days after the No Kings Protest, USBP ran three searches for a vehicle using
the descriptor “Portland Riots.” 
USBP also used the Flock Safety network to investigate a motorist who had
“extended his middle finger” at Border Patrol vehicles that were transporting
detainees. The motorist then allegedly drove in front of one of the vehicles and
slowed down, forcing the Border Patrol vehicle to brake hard. An officer ran
seven searches for his plate, citing "assault on agent" and "18 usc 111," the
federal criminal statute for assaulting, resisting or impeding a federal officer.
The individual was charged in federal court in early August. 
USBP had access to the Flock system during a trial period in the first half of
2025, but the company says it has since paused the agency's access to the
system. However, Border Patrol and other federal immigration authorities have
been able to access the system’s data through local agencies who have run
searches on their behalf or even lent them logins. 
Targeting Animal Rights Activists
Law enforcement's use of Flock's ALPR network to surveil protesters isn't
limited to large-scale political demonstrations. Three agencies also used the
system dozens of times to specifically target activists from Direct Action

--- page 6 ---
Everywhere (DxE), an animal-rights organization known for using civil
disobedience tactics to expose conditions at factory farms.
Delaware State Police queried the Flock national network nine times in March
2025 related to DxE actions, logging reasons such as "DxE Protest Suspect
Vehicle." DxE advocates told EFF that these searches correspond to an
investigation the organization undertook of a Mountaire Farms facility. 
Additionally, the California Highway Patrol logged dozens of searches related
to a "DXE Operation" throughout the day on May 27, 2025. The organization
says this corresponds with an annual convening in California that typically
ends in a direct action. Participants leave the event early in the morning, then
drive across the state to a predetermined but previously undisclosed protest
site. Also in May, the Merced County Sheriff's Office in California logged two
searches related to "DXE activity." 
As an organization engaged in direct activism, DxE has experienced criminal
prosecution for its activities, and so the organization told EFF they were not
surprised to learn they are under scrutiny from law enforcement, particularly
considering how industrial farmers have collected and distributed their own
intelligence to police.
The targeting of DxE activists reveals how ALPR surveillance extends beyond
conventional and large-scale political protests to target groups engaged in
activism that challenges powerful industries. For animal-rights activists, the
knowledge that their vehicles are being tracked through a national surveillance
network undeniably creates a chilling effect on their ability to organize and
demonstrate.
Fighting Back Against ALPR

--- page 7 ---
ALPR systems are designed to capture information on every vehicle that passes
within view. That means they don't just capture data on "criminals" but on
everyone, all the time—and that includes people engaged in their First
Amendment right to publicly dissent. Police are sitting on massive troves of
data that can reveal who attended a protest, and this data shows they are not
afraid to use it. 
Our analysis only includes data where agencies explicitly mentioned protests or
related terms in the "reason" field when documenting their search. It's likely
that scores more were conducted under less obvious pretexts and search
reasons. According to our analysis, approximately 20 percent of all searches we
reviewed listed vague language like "investigation," "suspect," and "query" in
the reason field. Those terms could well be cover for spying on a protest, an
abortion prosecution, or an officer stalking a spouse, and no one would be the
wiser–including the agencies whose data was searched. Flock has said it will
now require officers to select a specific crime under investigation, but that can
and will also be used to obfuscate dubious searches. 
For protestors, this data should serve as confirmation that ALPR surveillance
has been and will be used to target activities protected by the First
Amendment. Depending on your threat model, this means you should think
carefully about how you arrive at protests, and explore options such as by

--- page 8 ---
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Coalition Urges California to Revoke
Permits for Federal License Plate
Reader Surveillance
EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out
of Our City
biking, walking, carpooling, taking public transportation, or simply parking a
little further away from the action. Our Surveillance Self-Defense project has
more information on steps you could take to protect your privacy when
traveling to and attending a protest.
For local officials, this should serve as another example of how systems
marketed as protecting your community may actually threaten the values your
communities hold most dear. The best way to protect people is to shut down
these camera networks.  
Everyone should have the right to speak up against injustice without ending
up in a database. 
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 9 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MELISSA SRAGO | FEBRUARY 9, 2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY COOPER QUINTIN | JANUARY 7, 2026
ICE Is Going on a Surveillance
Shopping Spree
PRESS RELEASE | NOVEMBER 18, 2025
Lawsuit Challenges San Jose’s
Warrantless ALPR Mass Surveillance
License Plate Surveillance Logs
Reveal Racist Policing Against

--- page 10 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RINDALA ALAJAJI, DAVE MAASS |
NOVEMBER 3, 2025
Romani People
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License