--- page 1 ---
Victory! Flock Ends Rollout of
Audio “Distress Detection” of
Human Voices
JULY 17, 2026
eff.org
Reversing course, Flock Safety—the surveillance technology vendor most
known for its extensive network of automated license plate readers—has
announced that it will end a pilot for its acoustic gunshot detection devices to
identify signs of “human distress.”
In October 2025, EFF warned the public that Flock was rolling out a new feature
called “Distress Detection” that would be deployed through their acoustic
gunshot detection devices (formerly known as Flock Raven, now called Audio
Detection). This feature purported to use high-powered microphones scattered
throughout a city to search for sounds of human distress, with original
advertisements from the product indicating it would search for “screaming.”
(Since the publication of our original blog post, Flock quietly amended the ad
on this webpage to say “distress” instead of “screaming.”)
Now, Flock has published a blog post stating that “[a]fter careful consideration
and community consultation, we decided to remove the feature.” Good
riddance.

--- page 2 ---
We said it when the product was announced and we’ll say it again: this was a
misguided and dangerous feature because of the civil liberties concerns it poses,
the possibility it could summon armed police to every loud interaction
happening on the street, and because in several places this type of spying would
be illegal under state eavesdropping laws. 
We were not quiet about this potential new feature. Flock even mentioned our
concern about Distress Detection in an attempt to rebut our opposition to the
mass surveillance their products enable.
The suspension of Distress Detection, however, does not mean that these high-
powered microphones are now magically safe or beyond our concern. Acoustic
gunshot detection is still a dangerous and often highly inaccurate technology
that has resulted in real world harm, as in Chicago where it resulted in police
shooting at children lighting fireworks. As Flock itself states, “No acoustic
system is perfect, and we don't claim otherwise.” But police response to a
situation where they believe guns are actively in use seems like a pretty high-
stakes situation to be making, selling, and deploying technology known to be
imperfect. Flock’s devices also listen for more than just gunshots. Their
marketing materials admit to be listening for “community disruption,” which
includes “non-violent” threats like car sideshows and fireworks. 
Flock’s failed attempt to roll out Distress Detection teaches us a few important
lessons about the current state of police surveillance. First, we should not
assume that just because these companies are large and well-funded, that does
not ensure that they are complying with local privacy laws before floating new
products to customers. Second, companies roll out and police adopt invasive
technology under the justification that it will be used to address our society’s
very worst crimes. However, both the companies and police will leverage
deployed surveillance infrastructure to introduce new uses without necessarily
seeking the consent or approval of the public. Gunshot detecting microphones
eventually being used to listen for screaming is exactly the type of mission
creep that we’ve seen happen with other pieces of surveillance technology,
including Flock’s license plate readers. Finally, gun violence is too serious and
complex of an issue to purport to solve with one flawed piece of technology. It
has become too easy for police and cities to listen to the fancy marketing
pitches of tech companies claiming they’re going to solve all crime instead of
doing the hard work of addressing the root causes of societal issues. And, in the
meantime, that technology creates more problems and hazards for the
communities they blanket in police surveillance.

--- page 3 ---
As we’ve also seen with people across the country pushing back on Flock license
plate reader contracts in their communities, public pressure can sometimes
work to influence both companies and lawmakers that control a city’s purse
strings to discontinue or divest from harmful products. Flock’s decision to end
“Distress Detection” for human voices is a win.  
Discover more. Join our email list for EFF news, events,
campaigns, and ways to support digital freedom.
POSTAL CODE (OPTIONAL)
EMAIL ADDRESS *
SIGN UP NOW
RELATED UPDATES
I would like to join EFF's email list for EFF news, events, campaigns, and ways to
support digital freedom.

--- page 4 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS | JULY 17, 2026
How the Watch Dogs Video Game
Series Mirrored and Predicted Real-
World Digital Rights Issues
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY ANDREW CROCKER, JENNIFER LYNCH
| JUNE 29, 2026
Victory! Supreme Court Says
Constitution Protects People’s
Location Data
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MATTHEW GUARIGLIA | JUNE 26, 2026
Lawmakers Must Act Now to Prevent
Armed Police Drones

--- page 5 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS | JUNE 25, 2026
Are Your Local Police Using Flock
Safety ALPRs to Scan for
Immigrants?
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY DAVE MAASS, RINDALA ALAJAJI | MAY
26, 2026
More License Plate Reader Mission
Creep: School Residency Verification,
Background Checks, and Noise
Complaints
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SARAH HAMID | APRIL 8, 2026
Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the
Arab Spring Fueled a Global
Surveillance Boom
Traffic Violation! License Plate
Reader Mission Creep Is Already Here

--- page 6 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MATTHEW GUARIGLIA | MARCH 26,
2026
PRESS RELEASE | MARCH 3, 2026
EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down
Unconstitutional Geofence Searches
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SAIRA HUSSAIN | FEBRUARY 26, 2026
Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth
Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad
Search of Protesters’ Devices and
Digital Data
San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by
Ending Flock Surveillance System

--- page 7 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JENNIFER PINSOF | FEBRUARY 17, 2026
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License