Victory! Austin Organizers Cancel City's Flock ALPR Contract | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Victory! Austin Organizers Cancel City's Flock ALPR Contract DEEPLINKS BLOG By Rory Mir June 6, 2025 Victory! Austin Organizers Cancel City's Flock ALPR Contract Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Austin organizers turned out to rebuke the city’s misguided contract with Flock Safety— and won. This successful pushback from the community means at the end of the month Austin police will no longer be able to use the surveillance network of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) across the city. Two years ago Austin City Council approved this controversial contract, despite strong local opposition. We knew then that these AI-driven surveillance systems weren’t just creepy, they are prone to misuse and mistakes which have a real human toll . In the years since, this concern has materialized time and time again , and now the risks have heightened with the potential of using the data against immigrants and people seeking trans or reproductive healthcare. Most recently Texas authorities were implicated in a 404 media report on the use of these cameras to target abortion seekers . Today's victory in Austin is a tribute to what happens when a coalition of activist groups come together in common cause Just a few days before the scheduled vote, an audit of the Austin Police Department program also revealed that over 20% of ALPR database searches lacked proper documentation or justification, in violation of department policy. The audit also revealed contract language allowed for data retention beyond council-mandated limits on retention and potential sharing with outside agencies. Fortunately, more than 30 community groups, including Electronic Frontier Alliance member EFF-Austin , joined forces to successfully prevent contract renewal . EFF-Austin Executive Director Kevin Welch told us that, "Today's victory in Austin is a tribute to what happens when a coalition of activist groups come together in common cause and stand in solidarity against the expansion of the surveillance state.” He went on to say, “But the fight is not over. While the Flock contract has been discontinued, Austin still makes use of ALPRs via its contract with Axon, and [the] council may attempt to bring this technology back [...] That being said, real progress in educating elected officials on the dangers of these technologies has been made.” This win in a city as large as Austin lends momentum to the larger trend across the country where local communities are pushing back against ALPR surveillance. EFF continues to stand with these local efforts, and encourages other organizers to reach out at organizing [at] eff.org in the fight against local surveillance. Speaking to this trend, Kevin added, “As late as Monday, it didn't look like we had the votes to make this victory happen. While these are dark times, there are still lights burning in the dark, and through collective action, we can burn bright." Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Electronic Frontier Alliance Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | April 8, 2026 Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the Arab Spring Fueled a Global Surveillance Boom When people remember the 2011 uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), they picture crowded squares, raised phones, and the feeling that the internet had finally shifted the balance of power toward ordinary people. But the past decade and a half is also a story about how governments... Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | March 26, 2026 Traffic Violation! License Plate Reader Mission Creep Is Already Here A new report from 404 Media sheds light on how automated license plate readers (ALPRs) could be used beyond the press releases and glossy marketing materials put out by law enforcement agencies and ALPR vendors. Press Release | March 3, 2026 EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down Unconstitutional Geofence Searches The brief argues that geofence warrants—which compel companies to provide information on every electronic device in a given area during a given time period—are the digital version of the exploratory rummaging that the drafters of the Fourth Amendment specifically intended to prevent. Deeplinks Blog by Saira Hussain | February 26, 2026 Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad Search of Protesters’ Devices and Digital Data In a big win for protesters’ rights, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit overturned a lower court’s dismissal of a challenge to sweeping warrants to search a protester’s devices and digital data and a nonprofit’s social media data.The case, Armendariz v. City of Colorado Springs ,... Deeplinks Blog by Jennifer Pinsof | February 17, 2026 San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by Ending Flock Surveillance System As ICE and other federal agencies continue their assault on civil liberties, local leaders are stepping up to protect their communities. This includes pushing back against automated license plate readers, or ALPRs, which are tools of mass surveillance that can be weaponized against immigrants, political dissidents and other targets. Press Release | February 17, 2026 New Report Helps Journalists Dig Deeper Into Police Surveillance Technology SAN FRANCISCO — A new report released today offers journalists tips on cutting through the sales hype about police surveillance technology and report accurately on costs, benefits, privacy, and accountability as these invasive and often ineffective tools come to communities across the nation. The “Selling Safety” ... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton , Sarah Hamid | February 11, 2026 “Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes at a High and Dangerous Cost Surveillance technology vendors, federal agencies, and wealthy private donors have long helped provide local law enforcement “free” access to surveillance equipment that bypasses local oversight. The result is predictable: serious accountability gaps and data pipelines to other entities, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) , that expose millions of... Deeplinks Blog by Beryl Lipton | February 10, 2026 No One, Including Our Furry Friends, Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance Nightmare Amazon Ring’s Super Bowl ad offered a vision of our streets that should leave every person unsettled about the company’s goals for disintegrating our privacy in public.In the ad, disguised as a heartfelt effort to reunite the lost dogs of the country with their innocent owners, the company previewed future... Press Release | February 10, 2026 Coalition Urges California to Revoke Permits for Federal License Plate Reader Surveillance SAN FRANCISCO – California must revoke permits allowing federal agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to put automated license plate readers along border highways, a coalition led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Imperial Valley Equity & ... Deeplinks Blog by Melissa Srago | February 9, 2026 EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out of Our City Flock contracts have quietly spread to cities across the country. But Flock ALPR (Automated License Plate Readers) erode civil liberties from the moment they're installed. While officials claim these cameras keep neighborhoods safe, the evidence tells a different story. The data reveals how Flock has enabled surveillance of people seeking... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Street-Level Surveillance Electronic Frontier Alliance Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information