--- page 1 ---
Washington Court Rules That Data
Captured on Flock Safety Cameras
Are Public Records
NOVEMBER 12, 2025
eff.org
A Washington state trial court has shot down local municipalities’ effort to
keep automated license plate reader (ALPR) data secret.
The Skagit County Superior Court in Washington rejected the attempt to block
the public’s right to access data gathered by Flock Safety cameras, protecting
access to information under the Washington Public Records Act (PRA).
Importantly, the ruling from the court makes it clear that this access is
protected even when a Washington city uses Flock Safety, a third-party
vendor, to conduct surveillance and store personal data on behalf of a
government agency.
"The Flock images generated by the Flock cameras...are public records," the
court wrote in its ruling. "Flock camera images are created and used to further
a governmental purpose. The Flock images created by the cameras located in
Stanwood and Sedro-Woolley were paid for by Stanwood and Sedro Wooley
[sic] and were generated for the benefit of Stanwood and Sedro-Woolley."
The cities’ move to exempt the records from disclosure was a dangerous
attempt to deny transparency and reflects another problem with the massive
amount of data that police departments collect through Flock cameras and

--- page 2 ---
store on Flock servers: the wiggle room cities seek when public data is hosted
on a private company’s server.
Flock Safety's main product is ALPRs, camera systems installed throughout
communities to track all drivers all the time. Privacy activists and journalists
across the country recently have used public records requests to obtain data
from the system, revealing a variety of controversial uses. This has included
agencies accessing data for immigration enforcement and to investigate an
abortion, the latter of which may have violated Washington law. A recent
report from the University of Washington found that some cities in the state
are also sharing the ALPR data from their Flock Safety systems with federal
immigration agents. 
In this case, a member of the public in April filed a records request with a Flock
customer, the City of Stanwood, for all footage recorded during a one-hour
period in March. Shortly afterward, Stanwood and another Flock user, the City
of Sedro-Woolley requested the local court rule that this data is not a public
record, asserting that “data generated by Flock [automated license plate reader
cameras (ALPRs)] and stored in the Flock cloud system are not public records
unless and until a public agency extracts and downloads that data." 
If a government agency is conducting mass surveillance, EFF supports
individuals’ access to data collected specifically on them, at the very least. And
to address legitimate privacy concerns, governments can and should redact
personal information in these records while still disclosing information about
how the systems work and the data that they capture. 
This isn’t what these Washington cities offered, though. They tried a few
different arguments against releasing any information at all. 
The contract between the City of Sedron-Woolley and Flock Safety clearly
states that "As between Flock and Customer, all right, title and interest in the
Customer Data, belong to and are retained solely by Customer,” and “Customer
Data” is defined as "the data, media, and content provided by Customer
through the Services. For the avoidance of doubt, the Customer Data will
include the Footage." Other Flock-using police departments across the country
have also relied on similar contract language to insist that footage captured by
Flock cameras belongs to the jurisdiction in question. 
The contract language notwithstanding, officials in Washington attempted to
restrict public access by claiming that video footage stored on Flock’s servers
and requests for that information would constitute the generation of a new

--- page 3 ---
record. This part of the argument claimed that any information that was
gathered but not otherwise accessed by law enforcement, including thousands
of images taken every day by the agency’s 14 Flock ALPR cameras, had nothing
to do with government business, would generate a new record, and should not
be subject to records requests. The cities shut off their Flock cameras while the
litigation was ongoing.
If the court had ruled in favor of the cities’ claim, police could move to store all
their data — from their surveillance equipment and otherwise — on private
company servers and claim that it's no longer accessible to the public. 
The cities threw another reason for withholding information at the wall to see
if it would stick, claiming that even if the court found that data collected on
Flock cameras are in fact public record, the cities should still be able to block
the release of the requested one hour of footage either because all of the
images captured by Flock cameras are sensitive investigation material or
because they should be treated the same way as automated traffic safety
cameras. 
EFF is particularly opposed to this line of reasoning. In 2017, the California
Supreme Court sided with EFF and ACLU in a case arguing that “the license
plate data of millions of law-abiding drivers, collected indiscriminately by
police across the state, are not ‘investigative records’ that law enforcement
can keep secret.” 
Notably, when Stanwood Police Chief Jason Toner made his pitch to the City
Council to procure the Flock cameras in April 2024, he was adamant that the
ALPRs would not be the same as traffic cameras. “Flock Safety Cameras are not
‘red light’ traffic cameras nor are they facial recognition cameras,” Chief Toner
wrote at the time, adding that the system would be a “force multiplier” for the
department. 
If the court had gone along with this part of the argument, cities could have
been able to claim that the mass surveillance conducted using ALPRs is part of
undefined mass investigations, pulling back from the public huge amounts of
information being gathered without warrants or reason.
The cities seemed to be setting up contradictory arguments. Maybe the
footage captured by the cities’ Flock cameras belongs to the city — or maybe it
doesn’t until the city accesses it. Maybe the data collected by the cities’
taxpayer-funded cameras are unrelated to government business and should be
inaccessible to the public — or maybe it’s all related to government business

--- page 4 ---
and, specifically, to sensitive investigations, presumably of every single vehicle
that goes by the cameras. 
The requester, Jose Rodriguez, still won’t be getting his records, despite the
court’s positive ruling. 
“The cities both allowed the records to be automatically deleted after I
submitted my records requests and while they decided to have their legal
council review my request. So they no longer have the records and can not
provide them to me even though they were declared to be public records,”
Rodriguez told 404 Media — another possible violation of that state’s public
records laws. 
Flock Safety and its ALPR system have come under increased scrutiny in the
last few months, as the public has become aware of illegal and widespread
sharing of information. 
The system was used by the Johnson County Sheriff’s Office to track someone
across the country who’d self-administered an abortion in Texas. Flock
repeatedly claimed that this was inaccurate reporting, but materials recently
obtained by EFF have affirmed that Johnson County was investigating that
individual as part of a fetal death investigation, conducted at the request of her
former abusive partner. They were not looking for her as part of a missing
person search, as Flock said. 
In Illinois, the Secretary of State conducted an audit of Flock use within the
state and found that the Flock Safety system was facilitating Customs and
Border Protection access, in violation of state law. And in California, the
Attorney General recently sued the City of El Cajon for using Flock to illegally
share information across state lines.
Police departments are increasingly relying on third-party vendors for
surveillance equipment and storage for the terabytes of information they’re
gathering. Refusing the public access to this information undermines public
records laws and the assurances the public has received when police
departments set these powerful spying tools loose in their streets. While it’s
great that these records remain public in Washington, communities around the
country must be swift to reject similar attempts at blocking public access.

--- page 5 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SARAH HAMID | APRIL 8, 2026
Digital Hopes, Real Power: How the
Arab Spring Fueled a Global
Surveillance Boom
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MATTHEW GUARIGLIA | MARCH 26,
2026
Traffic Violation! License Plate
Reader Mission Creep Is Already
Here
EFF to Supreme Court: Shut Down
Unconstitutional Geofence Searches
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 6 ---
PRESS RELEASE | MARCH 3, 2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY SAIRA HUSSAIN | FEBRUARY 26, 2026
Victory! Tenth Circuit Finds Fourth
Amendment Doesn’t Support Broad
Search of Protesters’ Devices and
Digital Data
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY JENNIFER PINSOF | FEBRUARY 17,
2026
San Jose Can Protect Immigrants by
Ending Flock Surveillance System
New Report Helps Journalists Dig
Deeper Into Police Surveillance

--- page 7 ---
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 17, 2026
Technology
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BERYL LIPTON, SARAH HAMID |
FEBRUARY 11, 2026
“Free” Surveillance Tech Still Comes
at a High and Dangerous Cost
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY BERYL LIPTON | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
No One, Including Our Furry Friends,
Will Be Safer in Ring's Surveillance
Nightmare
Coalition Urges California to Revoke
Permits for Federal License Plate

--- page 8 ---
PRESS RELEASE | FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Reader Surveillance
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY MELISSA SRAGO | FEBRUARY 9, 2026
EFFecting Change: Get the Flock Out
of Our City
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License