Privacy’s Defenders Podcast: Cowboys, Cypherpunks and Visionaries | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today EFFecting Change: Protect the Vote on October 8 Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Privacy’s Defenders Podcast: Cowboys, Cypherpunks and Visionaries DEEPLINKS BLOG By Josh Richman September 29, 2026 Privacy’s Defenders Podcast: Cowboys, Cypherpunks and Visionaries Image by EFF (CC-by) People are increasingly concerned about the ways in which mass surveillance is tracking our every move: from Flock license plate readers to face recognition to creepy ads that – based on what we see and do online – seem to know everything we’re thinking and planning. It didn’t have to be this way, and since the early days of the internet, a dedicated band of activists, lawyers and technologists have fought for a better, more secure and private digital future – a future that’s still attainable. Cindy Cohn, who just finished a 26-year run with the Electronic Frontier Foundation including 11 years as its executive director, has lived this fight. She says privacy isn’t just about secrecy: It's ultimately about power – who has it, and who has the ability to protect themselves from it. Welcome to the first episode of “Privacy’s Defenders,” a podcast about the people – lawyers, journalists, hackers, and others – who’ve fought to secure your digital liberties since before most people even knew what the internet was. %3Ciframe%20height%3D%2252px%22%20width%3D%22100%25%22%20frameborder%3D%22no%22%20scrolling%3D%22no%22%20seamless%3D%22%22%20src%3D%22https%3A%2F%2Fplayer.simplecast.com%2F2f955342-7675-4c8c-bb40-fa364d9a569d%3Fdark%3Dtrue%26amp%3Bcolor%3D000000%22%20allow%3D%22autoplay%22%3E%C2%A0%3C%2Fiframe%3E Privacy info. This embed will serve content from simplecast.com (You can also find this episode on the Internet Archive and on YouTube .) In this episode, Cindy talks with EFF cofounder John Gilmore about how he – an early employee at Sun Microsystems – came together with Lotus Development cofounder Mitch Kapor and cattle rancher, philosopher and Grateful Dead lyricist John Perry Barlow to create EFF as a bulwark against government investigation and prosecution of early internet users. It’s a story of the Secret Service’s “Operation Sundevil,” jet-setting tech titans, tie-dyed cypherpunks, and a fateful house party in San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury district amid the earliest days of online communications, setting the stage for the battles that created the internet as we know it and issues we still grapple with today. The “Privacy’s Defenders” podcast is a follow-up to Cindy’s book, “Privacy’s Defender: My Thirty-Year Fight Against Digital Surveillance,” bringing to life pivotal moments in the voices of those who fought for your rights. Sales of “Privacy’s Defender” benefit EFF, so pick up your copy today ! Joanne Elgart Jennings co-produced and created this podcast. Jarod Sport co-produced, mixed, and mastered it. Corinne Ruff is our story editor. We had additional help from Rachel Estabrook and Alison Broverman. The original music was composed and performed by Nat Keefe of Hot Buttered Rum with Ben Andrews on the fiddle. And other archival sound came from the Internet Archive's amazing collection, including the snippet of the Grateful Dead song “Cassidy” that John Perry Barlow co-wrote. Related Issues Privacy How to Fix the Internet: Podcast Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Devanshi Nishar | September 24, 2026 DraftKings Is Using AI to Supercharge the Harms of Online Behavioral Advertising Online sports betting company DraftKings is using AI to target customers who are most likely to place losing bets and respond to gambling promotions. This kind of targeting is a form of online behavioral advertising , which is when companies personalize the ads they show you based on the... Deeplinks Blog by Christoph Schmon | September 21, 2026 EU Kids Act Won't Keep the Internet Accountable and Trustworthy The EU Commission draft law to restrict young people’s access to the internet that it presented last week will come at a high cost: it will put online services behind age gates, expand the use of intrusive age verification, and undermine the privacy of all users. The EU ... Deeplinks Blog by Thorin Klosowski | September 18, 2026 How to Limit What Apple’s New Siri AI Can Access in iOS 27 Apple’s new operating system is here, and along with it comes a new version of Siri, dubbed with two very familiar letters: AI. As the name suggests, this Siri power-up resembles an AI chatbot more than the often derided voice assistant you might be used to. It has... Deeplinks Blog by Allison Morris | September 18, 2026 2025 Annual Report: Standing Up for an Open Digital World Technology should empower people, not control them. In 2025, that core belief faced unprecedented challenges. But with the support of our members, donors, partners, and communities, we fought back and made meaningful progress. Today, we’re proud to share our 2025 Annual Report , highlighting the people, cases, campaigns, and advocacy... Deeplinks Blog by Karen Gullo , Adam Schwartz | September 9, 2026 Cops Play Hide and Seek About Using Spy Tech to Avoid Scrutiny and Bad PR Law enforcement agencies across the country are increasingly relying on spying technologies— automated license plate readers (ALPR), cell-site simulators , and facial recognition , to name a few--causing an outcry in many communities where people are rightly concerned about the threat to civil rights and civil liberties these tools present.Some... Deeplinks Blog by Jillian C. York , Eva Galperin | September 9, 2026 Digital Sovereignty: What It Is, What It Could Be The term “digital sovereignty” has become ubiquitous. European officials invoke it in debates about cloud infrastructure, AI , semiconductors , and platform regulation. Governments throughout the global majority use it to argue for greater control over data and communications infrastructure and boost their economies. Companies market “ sovereign cloud ”... Deeplinks Blog by David Greene | September 1, 2026 Meta's $17 Billion Settlement is a Bad Deal for Teens and All Social Media Users Meta’s settlement with 52 state attorneys general is a bad deal for all internet users, and especially for teens. In this post, we go through the Settlement’s provisions in detail. Deeplinks Blog by Daly Barnett | August 31, 2026 Doxxing Safety Part II: Incident Response Doxxing, also known as the deliberate sharing of personal information to harass or endanger someone, is a tricky thing to protect against. It often happens by some ill-intentioned person accessing publicly available information, then sharing that information more widely in the hopes it will intimidate their target or worse. This... Deeplinks Blog by Daly Barnett | August 31, 2026 Doxxing Safety Pt I: Prevention and Footprint Management Doxxing is the deliberate disclosure of personal information in order to bully, harass, intimidate, or instigate a chain of harms against someone. It's a tricky thing to protect against when the jerk doing it is often able to use legal and accessible means to do so. The odds are stacked... Deeplinks Blog by Veridiana Alimonti | August 27, 2026 EFF and Allies on Brazil's Elections: Privacy Protections are Crucial to Electoral Integrity EFF, Access Now, and Data Privacy Brasil are putting forward recommendations to strengthen robust privacy and data protection safeguards in the context of Brazil's elections. The recommendations stress the close relationship between violations of personal data protection and challenges to the integrity of electoral processes. They underscore how privacy and... Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Privacy How to Fix the Internet: Podcast Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information