--- page 1 ---
How the Meta Settlement Silences
Youth Activism
SEPTEMBER 16, 2026
eff.org
Since its integration into our digital world, social media has played a pivotal
role in youth organizing and social mobilization. Yet, people’s access to these
platforms is increasingly coming under threat from courts and legislatures
under the guise of protecting young people online—presenting a significant
hindrance to youth organizing.  
In a major recent example, Meta settled in a lawsuit with 52 states and
territories regarding the use of Instagram and Facebook by young
people. The settlement will require Meta, and pressure other non-Meta
owned platforms like TikTok and YouTube, to embed age gating practices into

--- page 2 ---
every product while also requiring restrictions on the accounts of people under-
18, such as a two-hour daily time limit and content restrictions.   
Youth Power on Social Media 
Young people have been using social media for political advocacy and
community organizing for more than a decade. From organizing protests
speaking out against police brutality, to organizing nationwide school
walkouts demanding safety in schools from gun violence, and striking to
demand lawmakers take action to protect the climate, social media
has become an instrumental tool for youth to both speak out and connect with
other young activists.  
Instagram has become especially useful for activism online by young
people. The features on the app make it a helpful tool for being able
to efficiently and quickly spread awareness, which is especially important when
people need to share real-time information. For example, 17-year-old Darnella
Frazier’s video on Facebook showed the world the murder of George Floyd. 
The impact of youth activism online is also evident on non-Meta owned
platforms, with services like TikTok and YouTube
being particularly prevalent spaces for young people to share their stories, build
movements, and amplify collective engagement.
However, in a digital world operating under the settlement’s new guidelines,
young people risk not being able to read crucial news due to the content being
labeled as “age-inappropriate,” which has already happened for teenagers in
Australia under its social media ban.  
A two-hour daily time limit and a block on Meta’s apps between midnight and
6am leaves little room for young activists to organize rapid response
efforts. Being unable to see likes on a post will make it difficult to gauge the
effectiveness of their campaigns.   
Add to this what we already know about Meta’s content policies which claim
to “protect children” and keep sites “family-friendly” but instead label content
like LGBTQ+ content as “adult” or “harmful,” youth will be left with no choice
in what content they see once the ‘age-appropriate’ content filter is turned on
by default. One recent report noted that Meta had hidden posts that reference
LGBTQ+ hashtags like #lesbian, #bisexual, #gay, #trans, and #queer for
users with the sensitive content filter on. This would specifically curtail the
efforts of young activists doing work on comprehensive sex education.

--- page 3 ---
Global Trends 
Measures like this are being discussed across the globe, but not all courts have
taken such a short-sighted approach. In August, the
French Constitutional Council got a lot right in its decision to strike down the
country’s legislation banning under-15s from social media for
infringing free expression and communication for everyone online, not just
young people.  
The French Court also called attention to its infringement on privacy as the
legislation would have forced people of all ages to hand over government
IDs, face scans, and other sensitive information to prove their age and access
online content.  
Requiring this much data from users puts activists in danger of even more
surveillance. Meta has already previously complied with demands from law
enforcement to hand over the messages of users. The amount of personal
information that will be logged and that could be demanded via a warrant from
police to stifle or investigate activists’ actions or plans could cause a chilling
effect, forcing advocates to pause or terminate their work.  
This is egregious because these systems misidentify or lock out people of
color, people with disabilities, and trans or gender-nonconforming individuals
whose IDs may not match their chosen name or align with what the system
expects them to look like upon verification. And it’s often these communities
that benefit from online organizing the most, especially for marginalized
youth as social media can often be the only place to organize and build
community. 
What Young People Deserve 
The settlement generates headlines, but it will not solve
the core problem. Instead of tackling Meta’s surveillance capitalism business
model that turns all online content into potential profit and centers lining the
company’s pockets over protecting the speech and privacy of
users, this settlement gives the tech giant an opportunity to carve
out a new digital world that prioritizes its own needs, not those of young
people.  
As we’ve been calling attention to in other contexts, this will force young
people into digital isolation—curtailing vital access to news and resources for
health and development. It also completely ignores the calls of

--- page 4 ---
youths themselves who favor digital literacy and education over surveillance
and government control.   
Young people deserve a better internet than one regulated through panic. They
deserve better than the government or Big Tech getting to decide how they use
social media and what they can or cannot be exposed to or learn about. They
deserve better than having their right to free expression minimized. This must
not be lost in the pursuit of building a better and safer online ecosystem and
environment.   
Discover more. Join our email list for EFF news, events,
campaigns, and ways to support digital freedom.
POSTAL CODE (OPTIONAL)
EMAIL ADDRESS *
SIGN UP NOW
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License
I would like to join EFF's email list for EFF news, events, campaigns, and ways to
support digital freedom.