--- page 1 ---
How the Watch Dogs Video Game
Series Mirrored and Predicted
Real-World Digital Rights Issues
JULY 17, 2026
eff.org
When Ubisoft's Watch Dogs 2 was released in 2016, it was a headtrip for those
of us working on digital-rights issues in the Bay Area. During the day, I'd fight
tech-authoritarianism from EFF's San Francisco offices and then, at night, I'd
fight tech-authoritarianism in an uncanny simulation of San Francisco from
my home gaming console.  
Watch Dogs 2 is an open-world video game that follows a hacktivist collective
called Dedsec as they take on surveillance tech and discriminatory AI systems
that are being controlled by tech bros, government contractors, and corrupt
cops. The game's missions often felt like they were ripped from the pages of
EFF's Deeplinks blog.  
EFF’s mission is defending civil liberties in the digital world, and we do that
with activists, technologists, and lawyers. If you've ever dreamt of joining
Dedsec, you should definitely join us as a member.  
 
JOIN THE MOVEMENT TO TAKE BACK CTRL.

--- page 2 ---
In fact, we've even got the same merch aesthetic. I cosplayed as the lead
character, Marcus, at Dragon Con, and no one even knew I was in costume. 
Dave (left) as Marcus takes a selfie with a Wrench cosplayer at Dragon Con 2018.
To commemorate Watch Dog 2's 10th anniversary, I'll be speaking on a panel at
San Diego Comic-Con reflecting on how the game predicted tech issues we're
facing today. Organized by Mia Ginae of The Mighty Hostess and Black in
Gaming, we've got voice actors Ruffin Prentiss lll and Shawn Baichoo,
cinematic producer Timmy Fisher, and music producer Hudson Mohawke, who
did the soundtrack, with Mia Ginae moderating. That's at 3:15 PM on Friday,
July 24 in room 6BCF.

--- page 3 ---
But not everyone can get to Comic-Con and I certainly have more to say that
can fit in. So here are a few ways where Watch Dogs 2 mirrored our work back
then and foresaw what we're facing today.
Check out our full San Diego Comic Schedule, including panels and a meet-up. 
Insecure Surveillance Cameras 
One of the signature gameplay elements of the Watch Dogs series is the ability
for your character to hack into nearby security cameras from your phone and
use that to gain a strategic advantage over hostile adversaries. 
About a year before, that's exactly the issue that we were working on. EFF
Technologist Cooper Quintin and I used the service Shodan to identify a slew of
automated license plate readers (ALPRs) that Louisiana police had left
unprotected on the internet. We found that the controls were open to anyone to
manipulate and, just like in the game, you could watch the live video feeds.

--- page 4 ---
We didn't use the data to acquire a skill point or collectible outfit. Instead, we
forced police agencies to lock down their equipment and then used what we
learned to persuade then Gov. Bobby Jindal to veto a bill that would have
created a new statewide surveillance dragnet.  
This issue still persists today. Most recently, security researchers Benn Jordan
and Jon “GainSec” Gaines, and the award-winning journalists at 404 Media,
uncovered how at least 60 pan-tilt-zoom cameras from the vendor Flock Safety
were left exposed online.
Cell-Site Simulators 
In Watch Dogs 2 there's a mission called "Stolen Signals," in which Marcus and
his best friend Wrench are trying to locate "stingrays," police devices that
gather nearby cell-phone data by masquerading as legit cellular towers. We call
these "cell-site simulators" (CSSs) and they're are an extremely alarming mass

--- page 5 ---
surveillance technology that allows police to track individual users through
their phone identifiers. We've long advocated that this should require a search
warrant.   
Like Dedsec, we also had initiated a project to do the exact same thing. And in
true Dedsec fashion, we also gave it a pop-culture name: Crocodile Hunter, an
homage to wildlife expert Steve Irwin, who had famously died after a stingray
attack.  
But while Marcus was running around Telegraph Hill, staff technologist Cooper
Quintin and I were running around downtown San Francisco, testing out our
own device for detecting suspicious cell phone towers during Salesforce's
annual Dreamforce conference. And while we didn't find a CSS that day, we did
find a mobile surveillance tower that a start-up had set up for the event.
Cooper Quintin, EFF's own 'Wrench,' testing out Crocodile Hunter at Dreamforce

--- page 6 ---
Today, that project has evolved into Rayhunter, which allows anyone to use a
cheap mobile hotspot to detect the type of cellular anomalies associated with
CSSs. We're proud to say that now there's a whole international Dedsec-style
network of researchers using this technology to look for surveillance at
protests, at the border, and in metropolitan areas.  
Security Robots 
Throughout the game, Marcus encounters a number of autonomous pickle-
shaped security robots wandering the city. At one point, Wrench reprograms
one to become "Wrench Jr," a bona fide member of the Dedsec team.  
In real life, these robots are made by a company called Knightscope, and EFF
started shining light on them in 2020-2021, when they were first being
deployed by companies and government agencies.

--- page 7 ---
A Knightscope robot patrols a casino parking lot in Reno, Nevada.

--- page 8 ---
Today, law enforcement is pursuing weaponized robots and drones, and EFF is
at the forefront to stop this dystopian reality. In fact, in December 2022, we
successfully fought for San Francisco to ban the police department from
weaponizing drones. In 2024, New York Police Department also retired its
subway robot.
A Citywide Surveillance "Operating System" 
In the Watch Dog series, one of the ominous developments is CTOS 2.0 (Central
Operating System 2.0). Through this system, Blume, a government contractor,
tries to collect a massive amount of data through citywide sensors and
infrastructure, and to combine all that data into one unified—and totally
insecure—analytics system.  
At the time we'd only just begun to see this idea floated, with a limited number
of cities trying tools like Palantir's Gotham to manage data.  
Today, it is a frighteningly competitive market, particularly when it comes to
law enforcement surveillance. For example, both Axon and Flock Safety are
trying to offer products that integrate with every function of policing that
sound like CTOs. In fact, Flock Safety product is literally titled, "Flock OS."

--- page 9 ---
Fusus demonstrated at a police chief's conference.
Meanwhile, Axon's camera networking product, "Fusus," sounds like it came
straight from the Watch Dogs' writers room. Fusus allows for central live-
streaming of all types of surveillance cameras in a city, including body-worn
cameras, which was another prediction from the Watch Dog series that came
true.  
EFF has been part of many local battles to reject Flock and Axon surveillance
systems, and we've also advocated against recent efforts at the federal level to
consolidate government data.  
Join the Fight Against Authoritarian Tech 
Watch Dogs 2's protagonists aren't just the merry band of core hackers: It's a
distributed movement spread across the region and social media. The sequel,
Watch Dogs Legion, is even designed so that every single person in the city of
London is a potential playable Dedsec member, ready to take on tech tyranny
with whatever skills they have.

--- page 10 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY THORIN KLOSOWSKI | JULY 15, 2026
Most Smart Watches, Rings, and
Bands Lack Basic Transparency
Reports and Key Privacy Features
Don’t Repeat NY’s 3D Printing
Blunder
That's also our philosophy: If you use tech, if you're affected by tech, this is
your fight. And it's time to take back control. 
There are a lot of ways to do this. You can become a member by donating. You
can contact public officials through our Action Center. You can join the
thousands of volunteers who are helping gather data on surveillance through
our Atlas of Surveillance project. You can also hunt cell-site simulators with us
—and help improve our code—through the Rayhunter project.  
And just like Watch Dogs 2, this is a game we can win if we work together.
RELATED UPDATES

--- page 11 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR | JULY 14, 2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY INDIA MCKINNEY | JULY 9, 2026
The House Passed The KIDS Act—The
Senate Should Reject It 
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY PAIGE COLLINGS | JULY 2, 2026
LGBT Q&A: How Can I Wipe Online
Data That Points To My Queer
Identity?
LGBT Q&A: What Data Are Companies
in the UK Collecting When Verifying

--- page 12 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY PAIGE COLLINGS, ERICA PORTNOY |
JUNE 30, 2026
My Age?
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY LENA COHEN, PAIGE COLLINGS | JUNE
26, 2026
EFF to Grindr: This Pride Month, Put
Safety and Privacy Over Profits
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY THORIN KLOSOWSKI | JUNE 26, 2026
Hate “The Algorithm?” RSS Is One of
the Tools You’ve Been Looking For
We Can Still Stop California’s 3D
Printer Surveillance Scheme

--- page 13 ---
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY RORY MIR, CLIFF BRAUN | JUNE 26,
2026
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY KAREN GULLO, VERIDIANA ALIMONTI |
JUNE 25, 2026
EFF, TEDIC and CEJIL Challenge
Secrecy in the Use of Face
Recognition in Paraguay
DEEPLINKS BLOG BY CHAO LIU, COOPER QUINTIN | JUNE
25, 2026
The FCC’s Spam Call Proposal Is Just
a Data Collection Scheme
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
        eff.org
        Creative Commons Attribution License