source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5710348303d862c97711e7c05512504e70eb38747215a828f4a0ea71d6d624e6
pages: 599
ocr_pages: 218
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
August 9, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Clifford Robbins,
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 9, 2023 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 878 4071 2614      Passcode: 856513
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of July 12, 2023.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Sustainable Buildings Strategy – Project Update
Receive an update on the development of "Electrify San Mateo – Building for the Future: City of San Mateo
Sustainable Buildings Strategy."
3.
Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update
Recommend the adoption of the Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update to City Council.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
th
1 of 599

--- page 2 ---
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 599

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7815
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Matt Fabry
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 09, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of July 12, 2023. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the July 12, 2023 meeting
3 of 599

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
July 12, 2023 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Sigalle Michael 
Pam Rittelmeyer 
Clifford Robbins 
 
MINUTES 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Vice Chair Narita, Commissioners Rittelmeyer, Michael, and Robbins 
Absent:  Chair Rowinski is absent and excused  
 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion made to approve the minutes of June 14, 2023.  Motion passed 4-0 
Moved:       Robbins, Seconded: Rittelmeyer 
Ayes:          Robbins, Narita, Michael, and Rittelmeyer 
Noes:          None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Karen Funk spoke about getting a better understanding of the effectiveness of the recycling program managed by 
South Bay Recycling at the Shoreline facility. She wants more clarity about where compostable waste is 
processed.  Also, she wonders if South Bay Recycling is out of compliance since their annual report appears to 
be two years overdue.  The last one was from 2020 and wants agencies to post updated information.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
 
2. Appeal of Wireless Permit Approval at 732 10th Avenue (Permit #WC-2023-000141) 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer made a presentation to the Commission to hold a public hearing to consider the 
appeal from a resident within 500’ of the proposed site of a wireless permit application that was approved by 
Public Works.  Ryan Brunmeier, Assistant Engineer and Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney, were also 
available to answer questions. Taylor Blanford from Kimley Horn and Michael Cintron from Crown Castle were 
available to answer questions. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
4 of 599

--- page 5 ---
Public Comment. 
Paul Marca and Irena Marvitis spoke on behalf of the neighborhood.  Their concerns were the City’s process, 
design, property value degradation and negative health impacts.    
 
Commissioners agreed that the process is frustrating due to the City’s limited authority. They suggested residents 
reach out at the federal level (i.e. Kevin Mullin) regarding their concerns with the FCC regulations.  Updating the 
City’s design standards would require an amendment by the council to the municipal code.  That process could 
start when council’s future priorities are discussed during the Blue Sky meetings. 
 
Following comments from the commissioners, a motion was made to approve the permit application and deny 
the appeal.  Commissioner Rittelmeyer had to recuse herself for this hearing and motion due to a conflict with 
her new employment.   
Motion passed 3-0. 
 
Moved:       Robbins, Seconded: Narita 
Ayes:          Robbins, Michael, and Narita 
Noes:          None 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
3. Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance Update 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner and Matt Goyne, Principal and Molly Riddle, 
Transportation Planner from Fehr & Peers, provided a presentation to the Commission to receive an 
informational update on the Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance (TDM) effort. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.  
 
Public Comment.  No public comment.   
 
Commissioner comments included:  there should be more cost benefit analysis – more discussion about costs to 
the public; liked seeing the case studies from other cities; challenge could be limited parking and suggested 
partnering with business owners with under-utilized parking lots for more bicycle parking as people won’t ride 
their bikes if they can’t securely park them; frustration on lack of shared mobility in San Mateo; positive 
response on transit passes, onsite amenities and rideshare management; important to look at the target audiences, 
which was not indicated in the analysis.      
 
4. Local Roadway Safety Plan  
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer, provided a presentation to the Commission, to receive an informational update 
about the Local Roadway Safety Plan.  Matt Braughton, Associate Planner and Dhawal Kataria, Planner from 
Kittelson, were also available to answer questions. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.  
 
Public Comment.  No public comment.   
 
Commissioner comments included: when doing outreach, be transparent to residents about costs, e.g. bike boxes, 
bike lanes; wanted specifics about what is considered a serious injury; concerned about the Hillsdale Blvd. and 
5 of 599

--- page 6 ---
Saratoga intersection where only half has a crosswalk (and Hillsdale Blvd. and El Camino Real); suggested to 
consider quick builds. City staff will bring back this item in October.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Commissioner Robbins reminded folks about Music in the Park and that proceeds from all beer and wine 
purchases go to the parks.   
• Director Mitch spoke about the stormwater fee initiative that will go to council on 7/16, with a 
community meeting at the library on Tuesday, 7/18 at 6 PM, and a presentation to council on 8/21 to get 
it on a mail-in ballot.  
• Commissioners unanimously thanked Director Mitch for her service and the wonderful experience of 
working with her.  Particularly, her quick response and follow-up to their questions, and navigating 
through the pandemic and winter floods with grace and patience. They all wished her well.       
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn: 9:55 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 599

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7781
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Interim City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 09, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sustainable Buildings Strategy – Project Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the development of "Electrify San Mateo – Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy."
BACKGROUND:
Building energy use represents 38% of communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo and in January 2022, the 
City Council prioritized the decarbonization of existing buildings to help meet the City’s climate goals. The decarbonization 
or electrification of buildings refers to the transition from gas equipment to electric equipment for space and water 
heating, clothes drying, cooking and more. In San Mateo, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides electricity that is 50% 
renewable and virtually 100% carbon free and PCE is committed to delivering 100% renewable and carbon free electricity 
by 2025. Electrifying existing buildings is key to further reducing communitywide greenhouse gas emissions and technical 
analysis and community engagement are needed to develop a roadmap to clean energy buildings in San Mateo.
Staff released a Request for Proposals (RFP) seeking an experienced team knowledgeable in decarbonization policy 
planning, analysis, and implementation, to develop a decarbonization strategy that centers on equity and promotes a 
collaborative pathway to electrification. The RFP opened on November 22, 2022 and closed on January 10, 2023 and four 
consulting firms responded. After review of the proposals and consultant interviews, staff selected Rincon Consultants, Inc. 
because of their compelling approach to analysis and outreach and their experience with developing a similar strategy for 
other cities. The City Council approved an agreement with Rincon for this project at the March 20, 2023 City Council 
meeting. This project, which is now titled, “Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy,” 
launched in May 2023. 
This report provides an overview of the project and summarizes the local building electrification policy context, presents 
two deliverables from the Rincon team: the policy analysis framework, and building inventory and market segmentation 
analysis. 
Project Overview
The goal of this project is to develop the City of San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy to electrify San Mateo’s existing 
building stock. The strategy document will be organized around specific policy pathways and actions for both residential 
and nonresidential buildings. The project will result in an actionable roadmap with steps for the City of San Mateo to 
electrify buildings. The approach must be cost effective while also helping the City in reaching climate goals and 
greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. In addition to using the best available science and data, this project will also 
utilize a community driven approach that includes two phases of community outreach. The consultants will evaluate the 
City Council’s proposed 2030 “End of Flow” target date for the termination of fuel gas infrastructure and assess a suite of 
7 of 599

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
policy options, including the Bay Area Reach Codes Model Existing Building Decarbonization Ordinance with a January 1, 
2025 target date for requiring electric appliances upon replacement.
Local Policy Context
As part of the FY 2022-2023 goal setting session, the City Council directed staff to establish policies to decarbonize and 
electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030. The City’s Climate Action Plan also identifies electrifying 
existing buildings as a key strategy to reduce communitywide greenhouse gas emissions. The City promotes electrification 
through marketing electric appliance rebates and incentives and hosting workshops. Additionally, the City adopted reach 
codes to require and encourage building electrification. In 2020, the City Council adopted an ordinance requiring all 
residential and office buildings be all-electric starting on January 1, 2021. In 2022, the City Council approved an ordinance 
that expanded the all-electric requirement to all new buildings and requires electric-readiness and electric appliances for 
specific home remodels as of January 1, 2023. 
At the regional level, in May 2023, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in 
the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning 
the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state starting in 2030. These policy efforts drive California 
closer to the ambitious climate goal of carbon neutrality by 2045.
Analysis Framework Memo
The Analysis Framework Memo (Attachment 1) outlines the proposed framework for the development of the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy. The framework reviews electrification co-benefits, equity criteria, and effectiveness criteria. 
The concept of Energy Equity recognizes that disadvantaged communities have been historically marginalized and 
overburdened by pollution, underinvestment in clean energy infrastructure, and lack of access to energy efficient housing 
and transportation (Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy). The initial draft of the 
equity criteria proposed for the Sustainable Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are summarized below and 
provided in greater detail in the memo and primarily off existing resources like the Department of Energy, Rocky Mountain 
Institute, and Greenlining Institute:
•
Ensure equitable access to health, safety, and comfort benefits
•
Encourage concurrent housing condition improvements
•
Advance energy equity
•
Support high-road job opportunities
•
Maximize ease of installation
•
Promote affordable housing and prevent renter displacement
The equity criteria will be updated based on feedback gained through community outreach and engagement, especially 
with feedback from renters, disadvantaged communities, and small local businesses.
In addition to being equitable, the Sustainable Buildings Strategy must be effective. Broader “effectiveness criteria” are 
used in addition to the equity criteria to ensure the benefits of electrification are fully realized and do not come at the cost 
of other City priorities and projects and do not harm residents and business owners. The draft criteria are below:
•
Cost-effective: Ensure that costs associated with new requirements are minimized or offset through funding and 
financing strategies for residents and business owners and efficiently use limited City, PCE, and other resources.
•
Feasible: Ensure that electrification policies effectively reflect the most up-to-date electrification practices and 
regulatory requirements, considering long-term legal viability and thus; enforceability by the City
•
Measurable and Sustained Impact: Ensure that electrification policies are impactful and enforceable and will 
provide evidence-based results of greenhouse gas emission reduction over the long-term.
•
Reliable: Ensure that energy security and reliability are preserved or improved throughout the community in the 
long-term.
•
Enforceable: allowing for continued City monitoring and enforcement of selected electrification policy 
8 of 599

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
After incorporating Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) and community feedback, the effectiveness criteria 
will be finalized and utilized to evaluate, modify, and improve the equity and effectiveness of the initiatives and actions to 
be included in the Sustainable Buildings Strategy.
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo
To develop an equitable, implementable, and effective Sustainable Building Strategy, understanding the existing building 
stock and energy usage is critical.  Rincon developed the Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo (Attachment 
2) that includes an analysis of building stock, building vintage, and appliance fuel source for residential, multifamily and 
commercial buildings. The project team also summarized estimates for the various costs associated with building 
electrification. Part of this analysis includes investigating the up-front appliance costs for electrification, the cost of other 
upgrades that may be required to convert energy usage in buildings from gas to electricity, and the financial incentives 
currently available. On-bill costs are also an important factor but were not yet available at the time of this report and will 
be presented orally during the meeting. This memo will help the City in developing educational materials for the 
community as well as informing future policy development.
Next Steps
The project team is moving into the first round of community engagement. Broadly, community engagement throughout 
this process is to educate the community and decisionmakers on the building electrification process and how it provides 
co-benefits and supports accomplishing the City’s GHG reduction targets. There is also a need to educate the community 
and decisionmakers on the incentives and costs for building electrification to increase widespread access to incentives. The 
project team aims to generate support and buy-in from key interested parties and establish an equitable public 
engagement process by identifying and removing barriers for meaningful community-wide participation. The team is also 
challenged to achieve broad demographic and geographic representation from key interested parties, especially hard-to-
reach communities and those who do not typically engage in City processes, by partnering with trusted community groups 
and advisors. 
In this first round of outreach, the goal will be to specifically collect community feedback to refine equity and effectiveness 
criteria to reflect community priorities and build widespread understanding of the local building and cost conditions for 
building electrification in San Mateo. 
The next presentation to the SIC is tentatively scheduled for January 10, 2024 to present on the prioritized decarbonization 
policies for each building type and to report out on community feedback. Meanwhile, the project team will work on the 
draft prioritized policies list and incorporate community feedback. Staff is planning for another phase of outreach in Spring 
2024 to solicit feedback on the prioritized policy list. Staff is anticipating a City Council Study Session on the draft policies 
before returning to the SIC in April 2024 with the proposed strategy document. Following SIC approval and 
recommendation, the project team would present at a City Council meeting for approval and adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The project has no impact to the City’s General Fund. Funding for the project was approved at the March 20, 2023 City 
Council meeting. The funding was appropriated from the Advance Planning Fund (Fund 225).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Analysis Framework Memo
Att 2 - Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo
9 of 599

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7277
10 of 599

--- page 11 ---
Rincon Consultants, 
Inc.
449 15 t h Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
5 1 0 - 8 3 4 - 4 4 5
info@rinconconsultants.co
m
www.rinconconsultants.com
E n v i r o n m e n t a l  S c i e n t i s t s
P l a n n e r s
E n g i n e e r s
05/10/2023
Project No: 23-14014
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo | City Manager’s Office 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
O: (650) 522-7007 
Subject: 
Analysis Framework Memo incorporating Equity and Effectiveness
Electrify San Mateo | Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy 
Dear Ms. Chow: 
This Analysis Framework Memo outlines the proposed framework for development of the San Mateo 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy (Sustainable Buildings Strategy) policy pathways and actions. The 
proposed framework includes:
▪
Draft organizational structure for achieving building electrification goals, which breaks down the 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy into implementable policies and actions organized by building type
▪
Draft electrification co-benefits, which will be used to drive the project’s messaging during outreach 
and engagement and relate to existing building electrification in general
▪
Draft equity criteria that will guide the development and implementation of the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy in an equitable manner
▪
Draft effectiveness criteria, which will ensure the electrification actions are feasible and effective
The contents of this memo are meant to be an initial draft for the City’s consideration and feedback. 
Once further developed, the draft electrification co-benefits, equity criteria, and effectiveness criteria 
are intended to be shared with the community as part of the project’s outreach and engagement effort. 
Outreach and engagement will solicit feedback to inform expansion, re-development, and finalization of 
the criteria. The initial list of building decarbonization policy options which is currently under 
development (ex. time of replacement, indoor air quality requirements, building performance 
standards, infrastructure pruning etc.) will be screened against the equity and effectiveness criteria in 
accordance with the organizational structure outlined in this memo. 
Electrification Actions Organizational Structure
The Sustainable Buildings Strategy will focus on existing building electrification in both the residential 
and nonresidential sectors. To define the structure and vocabulary associated with the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy electrification actions up-front, Rincon proposes that the Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy be organized around specific policy pathways and actions for both residential and 
11 of 599

--- page 12 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 2
nonresidential buildings since the policy type (electrify on replacement ordinance, electric preferred, 
voluntary incentives, building performance standards) have the greatest impact on the equity and 
effectiveness criteria. Residential and nonresidential buildings are further categorized by building 
size/usage, which can be used as a proxy for equipment types. This categorization is used because 
building equipment types dictate the specific technical and cost considerations for electrification based 
on what type of appliance type, or process load is being used in the building. For example, the costs and 
technical needs of electrifying a single-family home (replacement of all household appliances like hot 
water heaters, dryers, stoves, with electric technology) versus an industrial kitchen (replacement of 
commercial gas-powered stoves with all-electric, water heating, etc.) is substantially different, thus 
requiring different decarbonization strategies. 
The structure of the overall strategy will be organized in the following way, and is also described in 
Figure 1:
▪
Cross Cutting or Foundational Actions and Advocacy are actions that support electrification across 
sectors and could include education and outreach programs, facilitation of financing options, 
contractor training, coordination with interested parties, supporting energy security and reliability, 
and advocacy. These actions span the entire strategy, providing the conditions needed to achieve 
building decarbonization across all building types. 
▪
Policy Pathways identify the high-level policy levers for building electrification that together make 
up the City’s electrification strategy. Example policy pathways include requiring installation of 
electric equipment at time-of-replacement, indoor air quality NOx standards or establishing building 
performance standards. 
o
Policy pathways are organized by building type (residential/nonresidential), and size: 
Based on Rincon’s past work with the Cities of Sacramento and Berkeley, building size 
and equipment type provides an important organizing framework when selecting 
decarbonization policies. Building size and equipment type can be a useful proxy for 
characterizing building electrification costs and technical challenges, allowing for the 
selection of building decarbonization policies tailored to these specific conditions. 
▪
Actions identify the component programs, policies, financial solutions, 
community engagement, and other commitments that together will make the 
parent policy pathway equitable and feasible. Each group of actions that 
support a policy pathway will collectively address the potential hurdles to 
successful policy implementation: equity impacts, community education gaps, 
funding gaps, and other specific effectiveness gaps identified during project 
outreach. 
12 of 599

--- page 13 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 3
Figure 1: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy Draft Organizational Structure
 
The organizational structure provides an organized and easily understandable framework for the San 
Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy. Organizing electrification actions in this way will ensure that each 
policy pathway in the residential and nonresidential sectors are supported by a comprehensive set of 
concrete, implementable, and specific actions tailored to both building types, and the specific 
electrification context specific to each one
Electrification Co-Benefits
Electrifying existing buildings is expected to produce many positive outcomes in San Mateo. 
Communicating these positive outcomes during outreach and engagement requires identification of the 
important benefits the community will see as a result of the Sustainable Buildings Strategy. These 
electrification benefits will be refined further in the first stage of outreach in the community 
engagement strategy. An initial draft list of electrification benefits proposed for the City’s consideration 
are: 
▪
Equitable investment in low-income housing & holistic building upgrades: Housing in low-income 
areas, frequently lived-in by renters, has been systemically disinvested in through policies like 
Redlining.1 Electrification of existing buildings offers an opportunity for the City to catalyze upgrades 
1 Sustainable San Mateo County. Historical Background. https://sustainablesanmateo.org/home/indicators/2021-
key-indicator-report/historical-
background/#:~:text=Although%20currently%20illegal%2C%20redlining%20was,neighborhoods%20due%20to%20t
heir%20ethnicity.
13 of 599

--- page 14 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 4
to these homes which disproportionately feature poor insulation and higher energy bills, while 
simultaneously replacing gas-burning appliances with electric and improving the comfort and 
livability in degraded housing stock. Improvements in building performance and energy efficiency 
for degraded housing stock may be a prerequisite for low-income households to realize the long-
term cost savings associated with all-electric buildings.2
▪
Health: Commonly used appliances that burn gas, including stoves, heating systems, and water 
heaters, emit hazardous air pollutants inside a home when improperly ventilated, or when leaks 
occur. These can include benzene, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, formaldehyde, 
particular matter and other harmful pollutants that increase the risk of respiratory disease.3,4,5,6 
Health impacts related to cooking with gas appliances in particular can be serious, but are generally 
not widely understood by consumers.7 Peer reviewed studies have documented that residences 
with gas stoves have 50 to 400% higher average nitrogen dioxide concentrations than homes with 
electric stoves.8 Living in a home with a gas stove may increase children’s risk of asthma by 42%.9 
Given that Californians spend 70% of a given day indoors,10 and potentially more given the context 
of the COVID pandemic, indoor air quality is an important health consideration for many. Gas usage 
in buildings causes outdoor air pollution as well and has generated six times more nitrogen oxides 
2 Equitable Building Decarbonization, Building Energy, Equity, and Power (BEEP) Coalition. ARB. 2022. 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2022-
03/BEEP%20Letter%20and%20Report_Equitable%20Decarb%20March%202022.pdf
3 Krasner, A., Jones, T. S., & La Rocque, R. (2021). Cooking with Gas, Household Air Pollution, and Asthma: Little 
Recognized Risk for Children. Journal of Environmental Health, 83(8), 14-18. https://www.proquest.com/scholarly-
journals/cooking-with-gas-household-airpollution-asthma/docview/2505418593/se-2?accountid=201395.
4 Seals, B., & Krasner, A. (2020). Health Effects from Gas Stove Pollution. Rocky Mountain Institute, Physicians for 
Social Responsibility, Mothers Out Front, and Sierra Club. https://rmi.org/insight/gasstoves-pollution-health.
5 4 Zhao, H., Chan, W. R., Cohn, S., Delp, W. W., Walker, I. S., & Singer, B. C. (2020) Indoor air quality in new and 
renovated low-income apartments with mechanical ventilation and natural gas cooking in California. International 
Journal of Indoor Environment and Health, 31(3), 717-729. https://doi.org/10.1111/ina.12764.
6 Logue, J. M., Klepeis, N. E., Lobscheid, A. B., & Singer, B. C. (2014) Pollutant exposures from natural gas cooking 
burners: A simulation-based assessment for Southern California. Environmental Health Perspectives, 122(1), 43-50.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3888569/.
7 Nicole, Wendee. (2014). Cooking up Indoor Air Pollution: Emissions from Natural Gas Stoves. Journal of 
Environmental Health Perspectives, 122(1). https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.122-A27.
8 U.S. EPA. Integrated Science Assessment (ISA) for Oxides of Nitrogen – Health Criteria (Final Report, Jul 2008). 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, EPA/600/R-08/071, 2008. 
https://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/isa/recordisplay.cfm?deid=194645.
9 Weiwei, L., Brunekreef, B., & Gehring, U. (2013). Meta-analysis of the effects of indoor nitrogen dioxide and gas 
cooking on asthma and wheeze in children. International Journal of Epidemiology, 42(6), 1724–1737. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dyt150.
10 Klepeis, N. E., Nelson, W. C., Ott, W. R., Robinson, J. P., Tsang, A. M., Switzer, P., ... & Engelmann, W. H. (2001). 
The National Human Activity Pattern Survey (NHAPS): a resource for assessing exposure to environmental 
pollutants. Journal of Exposure Science & Environmental Epidemiology, 11(3), 231-252.
14 of 599

--- page 15 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 5
emissions than all in-state power plants combined.11 Outdoor air pollution from buildings has been 
linked to pre-mature deaths in California.12
▪
Safety: Gas infrastructure carries an inherent safety risk due to the volatile nature of gas, including 
risk of methane leakage, damage during earthquakes, accidental explosions, or fires. Nationwide, 
gas ignites over 4,000 home structure fires annually, causing on average 40 deaths and $54 million 
in property damage each year.13
▪
Energy Affordability: Gas infrastructure costs are expected to increase over the next several 
decades as more substantial infrastructure upgrades are required. The California Public Utility 
Commission generally allows each gas utility to increase gas rates based on the necessary 
expenditure to keep gas systems operational. Increased utility expenditures on the gas system are 
therefore expected to lead to escalating consumer costs that will likely impact low-income 
households significantly.14 Without any building electrification or renewable gas use, the cost of 
natural gas is expected to double from approximately $1.5 per therm to $3 - $19 per therm by 2050 
depending on how the transition is managed.15 Upgrading buildings to all-electric is also an 
opportunity to complete other building upgrades such as air sealing and insulation, which can 
reduce energy costs and improve affordability. 
▪
Resilience: When coupled with solar and battery energy storage, all-electric buildings can mitigate 
impacts of power outages. While many people think having gas appliances provides a redundant 
system during power outages, gas appliances like water heaters, stoves, and space heaters typically 
cannot function without electricity to power the fans and controls needed for operation. Clean back-
up power is therefore an important asset when the utility grid is down. More local solar and battery 
storage is also good for grid resilience in the region. Electrification provides an opportunity for 
increased investment in the electrical grid and improved local resiliency in a safe and healthy way. 
For example, pairing heat pump HVAC units with good air filtration and home weatherization can 
protect residents from wildfire smoke during fires.
▪
High-road Local Jobs: New electrification policies and requirements support opportunities for new 
local jobs and existing local businesses in construction, building trades, and the green economy. A 
UCLA Luskin Center analysis found that a statewide transition to all-electric buildings could support 
more than 100,000 construction jobs and 4,9000 manufacturing jobs annually for 25 years, driving 
significant increases in employment in the electricity industry.16 
11 California Air Resources Board. 2016 SIP Emission Projection Data: 2012 Estimated Annual Average Emissions.
https://www.arb.ca.gov/ei/emissiondata.htm
12 Dedoussi, I. C., Eastham, S. D., Monier, E., & Barrett, S. R. (2020). Premature mortality related to United States 
cross-state air pollution. Nature, 578(7794), 261-265.
13 Ahrens, M. & Evarts, B. (2018). Natural Gas and Propane Fires, Explosions and Leaks Estimates and Incident 
Descriptions. NationalFire Protection Association. https://www.nfpa.org/-/media/Files/News-and-Research/Fire-
statistics-and-reports/Hazardousmaterials/osNaturalGasPropaneFires.
14 3 Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (2020). The Challenge of Retail Gas in California’s Low-Carbon 
Future. California Energy Commission. https://www.energy.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2021-06/CEC-500-2019-055-
F.pdf
15 Gridworks. (2019). California’s Gas System in Transition: Equitable, Affordable, Decarbonized and Smaller. 
https://gridworks.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/CA_Gas_System_in_Transition.pdf
16 UCLA Luskin Center. 2019. https://innovation.luskin.ucla.edu/2019/11/13/move-to-all-electric-buildings-will-
trigger-significant-demand-for-skilled-workers/
15 of 599

--- page 16 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 6
▪
Greenhouse Gas Reduction: Gas usage in buildings (including upstream and end use methane 
leakage) accounted for 31% of the City of San Mateo’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2019.17 
The proportion of emissions coming from gas is projected to increase through 2030 and 2045 as 
emissions from electricity decline, and eventually reach zero due to State targets to provide 100% 
carbon-free electricity to by 2045.18 This means that any appliance converted from gas to electric 
will have GHG-free operations by 2045. Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) already provides the vast 
majority of the City’s electricity for commercial and residential customers, with a goal of providing 
100% renewable energy to match demand (‘24/7 renewable energy’) by 2025.19 Electrifying existing 
buildings, reducing GHG emissions produced by natural gas use in buildings, will be critical in 
achieving the GHG reduction targets set by San Mateo’s CAP, which aim for an emissions reduction 
of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 and 85% below 1990 levels by 2045, consistent with the state’s 
goals. 
Equity Criteria
City of San Mateo’s Understanding of Equity 
The Equity Criteria drafted here builds off the work done by the City of San Mateo’s Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion Committee, and draws inspiration from equity work conducted in conjunction with its 
housing element from 2022, the DEI Strategic Framework Report, and City Council resolution work. The 
local understanding of equity includes:  
•
Promote infill development and socioeconomic equity, protect environmental and agricultural 
resources, encourage efficient development patterns and achieving greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction targets (Statutory Framework, Lets Talk Housing, San Mateo County, 2021)20 
•
The City of San Mateo defines equity as “Fair treatment, access, opportunity, and advancement 
for all people. To create conditions that allow all to reach their full potential. One’s identity 
cannot predict the outcome.” (DEI Committee)21
•
Housing element feedback from 2022 includes highest equity priorities for San Mateo to focus 
on included prevention of evictions, support for houselessness, and more education and 
programmatic support for low-income residents22. 
•
The DEI Strategic Framework includes a goal to “Proactively address inequity by undoing all 
forms of systemic or environmental bias, discrimination, and harassment, which impact quality 
of life.” (DEI Strategic Framework)
17 2019 RICAPS GHG Inventory Update
18https://www.energy.ca.gov/sb100#:~:text=Senate%20Bill%20(SB)%20100%20established,end%2Duse%20custom
ers%20by%202045.
19 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/power-mix/
20 https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85088/Lets-Talk-Housing---All-About-RHNA-4-21-
2021---Presentation-Slides?bidId=
21  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/90987/DEI-Strategic-Plan
22 https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/86889/Fair-Housing-Workshop-Discussion-and-Poll-
Summary-from-1-13-2022?bidId=
16 of 599

--- page 17 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 7
The City of San Mateo has taken strong stances through two Council Resolutions denouncing 
stigmatization of hateful racism and xenophobia, and declarations of black lives matter in 2020. 
However, there is no current sustainability-focused definition of Equity in relation to building 
electrification.
Defining Equity in Building Electrification 
The concept of Energy Equity recognizes that disadvantaged communities have been historically 
marginalized and overburdened by pollution, underinvestment in clean energy infrastructure, and lack 
of access to energy efficient housing and transportation (Department of Energy, Office of Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy)23. The initial draft of the equity criteria proposed for the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are included below and draw primarily off existing 
resources like the Department of Energy Rocky Mountain Institute, and Greenlining Institute. These 
equity criteria should be updated based on feedback gained through community outreach and 
engagement, especially with feedback from renters, disadvantaged communities, and small local 
businesses. Every policy pathway included in the Sustainable Buildings Strategy should incorporate the 
following equity criteria: 
▪
Ensure Equitable Access to Health, Safety, and Comfort Benefits: Ensure renters24 and 
environmental justice communities have equitable access to the health, safety, and comfort benefits 
from building electrification, like improved indoor air quality and cooling for hot days. This means 
prioritizing electrification of lower income homes, even though electrifying lower income homes 
may require preliminary, and potentially more complex, energy efficiency and electrical upgrades 
due to the legacies of decades of racist housing policy and disinvestment reflected in housing stock 
in the City.25
▪
Encourage Concurrent Housing Condition Improvements: Ensure that low-income communities 
have equitable access to solar installation, energy efficiency, building envelope upgrades, and lead 
23 https://www.energy.gov/eere/energy-equity-and-environmental-justice
24 It is expected that renters will need financial support for access to high-quality upgrades and the benefits of 
electrification due to the “split incentive” issue of building electrification in rental units. The split incentive 
between property owners and renters refers to the issue that renters may want to experience the benefits of 
electrification but do not own the building and therefore, may not experience the benefits of electrifying long term 
and have reduced incentive to electrify. On the other hand, because property owners will not experience the 
benefits of electrification themselves, they also have reduced incentive to electrify.
25 Rocky Mountain Institute. Oct 2021. Decarbonizing Homes: Improving Health in Low-Income Communities 
through Beneficial Electrification. Because of decades of discriminatory housing practices and disinvestment (ex. 
Redlining), low-income, and BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, People of Color) populations disproportionately experience 
lack of secure housing tenure, proportionately lower rates of home ownership, and poor-quality housing that 
introduces poor ventilation, pests, moisture, water, and higher energy bills. For these reasons, degraded housing 
stock, and its disproportionate overlap with low-income and BIPOC residents, may be considered ‘difficult to 
electrify’. Electrification upgrades for degraded housing stock may be more ‘difficult’ for degraded and disinvested 
housing stock as they may first require holistic building upgrades to high-performance building envelopes, panel 
upgrades, and ventilation upgrades that newer, invested housing stock does not require. Without these efficiency 
upgrades, energy bills could be proportionately more expensive, increasing the cost of energy to run appliances for 
households that are already energy burdened.
17 of 599

--- page 18 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 8
and asbestos abatement at the time that electrification retrofits occur. Electrification of a building 
provides opportunities for other whole-building improvements that may come with additional up-
front costs but would otherwise be more expensive to implement separately. These opportunities 
for concurrent whole-building improvements should be financially accessible for low-income 
populations.
▪
Advance Energy Equity: Ensure that building electrification supports access to affordable energy for 
all community members, especially disadvantaged communities, renters, and small businesses. This 
includes affordable utility bills, equitable access to funding and financing mechanisms for 
electrification, and the agency to avoid increasing future natural gas prices.
▪
Support High-Road Job Opportunities: Ensure disadvantaged communities have access to fairly paid 
high-road training and job opportunities as a result of the increased need for an electrification-
trained workforce.
▪
Maximize Ease of Installation: Ensure that incentives and programs for the community create 
meaningful support for renters and disadvantaged communities and include a simple process that 
minimizes the burdens and impacts associated with the installation of high-quality electric 
equipment. 
▪
Promote Affordable Housing and Prevent Renter Displacement: Ensure electrification upgrades do 
not displace renters, result in increased rents, or overburden homeowners. Programs should 
support housing production, housing preservation, and tenant protection. Programs should also 
protect against the displacement of small local businesses and organizations.
Effectiveness Criteria
In addition to being equitable, the Sustainable Buildings Strategy must be effective. Broader 
“effectiveness criteria” are used in addition to the equity criteria to ensure that the benefits of 
electrification are fully realized and do not come at the cost of other City priorities and projects and do 
not harm residents and business owners. These criteria or goals should also align with feedback from 
the community. Similar to the application of the equity criteria, policy pathways and their associated 
actions will be evaluated against the effectiveness criteria to identify and prevent gaps in the 
electrification approach. Each policy pathway should include at least one action that directly addresses 
each of the effectiveness criteria. The initial draft of the community goals proposed for the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are:
▪
Cost-effective: Ensure that costs associated with new requirements are minimized or offset through 
funding and financing strategies for residents and business owners and efficiently use limited City, 
PCE, and other resources.
▪
Feasible: Ensure that electrification policies effectively reflect the most up-to-date electrification 
practices and regulatory requirements, considering long-term legal viability and thus; enforceability 
by the City
▪
Measurable and Sustained Impact: Ensure that electrification policies are impactful and enforceable 
and will provide evidence-based results of greenhouse gas emission reduction over the long-term.
▪
Reliable: Ensure that energy security and reliability are preserved or improved throughout the 
community in the long-term.
18 of 599

--- page 19 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 9
▪
Enforceable: allowing for continued City monitoring and enforcement of selected electrification 
policy 
Conclusion and Next Steps
As part of the analysis framework development process, Rincon requests that the City of San Mateo 
review the proposed draft framework to identify changes or additions that should be made to meet the 
needs of the community. Updates to the electrification co-benefits, equity, and effectiveness criteria will 
be shared during future community engagement events and efforts associated with development of the 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy, and community feedback on the effectiveness criteria will be requested 
as part of that effort. Upon receipt of community feedback, the effectiveness criteria will be finalized 
and utilized to evaluate, modify, and improve the equity and effectiveness of the initiatives and actions 
to be included in the Sustainable Buildings Strategy.
19 of 599

--- page 20 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
449 15th Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
510-834-4455
www.rinconconsultants.com
July 24, 2023
Project No: 23-14014
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo
City Manager’s Office
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, California, 94403
Via email: achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
Building for the Future – City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Dear Ms. Chow:
To develop an equitable, implementable, and effective Sustainable Building Strategy 
(SBS), the City of San Mateo (City) first needs to understand the existing building stock 
and energy usage and develop estimates for the various costs associated with building 
electrification.1 Part of this analysis includes investigating the up-front appliance costs2 for 
electrification, the cost of other upgrades that may be required to convert energy usage 
in buildings from gas to electricity, the financial incentives currently available for this work, 
as well as existing conditions of the building stock within the City and other practical 
opportunities or barriers to electrification of existing buildings. To answer questions about 
up-front costs, available incentives, existing conditions, and other opportunities and 
barriers, in collaboration with the City, Rincon completed a meta-analysis of existing cost 
studies and reviewed several electrification project case studies which have been 
completed within the City and County of San Mateo. This memo summarizes the 
information gathered from these reviews and case studies. 
This memo is intended to be used in developing educational materials for the community 
and informing future policy development. Data in this report was summarized from 
existing sources, some of which are not specific to the City of San Mateo. However, the 
findings are of sufficient scale and accuracy to help guide this process but not intended 
as an accurate interpretation of the final cost of electrification for any one building in the 
City. This memo includes the following pieces of analysis, which is organized according 
to San Mateo building stock categories: Single Family Homes and Low-Rise Multifamily, 
and *Note that IRA incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by 
the building owner or contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to 
Table 6 for a full summary of rebates and incentives by funder.
1 Building electrification refers to the replacement of gas-fired equipment or appliances in a building with electric 
equipment or appliances.
2 Up-front costs include the cost to buy a new appliance and have it installed by qualified personnel. Up-front costs 
include additional costs that may come with other upgrades needed to make installation of the new appliance possible 
(e.g., installation of new wiring to install an electric stove, where there was previously only a gas hookup).
20 of 599

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
2
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building. 
•
Part 1: Residential Building Segmentation Analysis
o
Building Stock 
o
Building Vintage 
o
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
•
Part 2: High-Rise Multifamily and Commercial Building Segmentation Analysis
o
Building Stock 
o
Building Vintage 
o
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
•
Part 3: Residential and Commercial Buildings Electrification Cost Analysis 
o
Upfront Residential Costs 
▪
Incentives for Electrification 
▪
Gas-for-Gas Scenario 
▪
Gas-to-Electric Scenario 
▪
Gas-to-Electric Scenario (marginal costs) 
▪
Costs to Electrify Scenario (marginal costs- incentives) 
▪
Commercial Building Cost Analysis 
o
Description of Building Electrification Costs Overview
▪
Single Family Electrification Cost Discussion
▪
Baseline Scenario: Gas to Gas Appliance Replacement 
▪
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Electric 
▪
Electrification Incentives Overview
▪
Electrification Scenario + Incentives 
▪
Applicability to low-rise multifamily
o
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Buildings Electrification Cost 
Discussion
▪
Cost Considerations
▪
Package Unit Opportunity
▪
Current Incentives
o
On Bill Costs – analysis pending
This memorandum’s costs and building energy usage will be updated to reflect the 
current data as additional information becomes more available through project 
development. Once finalized, this memo will also serve as a technical appendix to the 
final Sustainable Buildings Strategy.
Note that an on-bill cost analysis is currently being completed by Peninsula Clean Energy 
(PCE) and will be incorporated into future analyses and policy development when it is 
made available to the Project Team. 
21 of 599

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
3
PART 1: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING SEGMENTATION ANALYSIS 
Single Family Homes and Low-Rise Multifamily Building 
Segmentation Analysis 
For this analysis, single family homes and low rise (3 stories and under) multifamily are 
discussed together. This is because they generally utilize similar equipment and share 
similar costs for electrification. These building types include single family, duplex, 
townhouse, rowhouse, and parcels with multiple single unit/duplex buildings. 
Commercial and high rise (over 3 stories) buildings are discussed in a later section. 
Significance of Building Vintage
Building vintage3 can be used to provide a sense of the technologies employed in a 
particular building. While vintage does not tell us if updates have been made, it does 
provide some idea of potential hurdles that might be faced when completing 
electrification work. Based on anecdotal evidence, buildings constructed after 1970 are 
more likely to have electric panels of 100 amps or more instead of lower amp panels or 
fuse boxes which may require upgrades and may impede electrification work. A 
significant number (70%) of San Mateo’s single-family homes were built before 1970 and 
could potentially need panel upgrades or other electrical work prior to full electrification 
as shown in Figure 1. However, progress on and availability of circuit sharing technologies 
and retrofit ready (120 volt) heat pump products continues to lower the number of 
buildings which require panel upgrades. Adding an electric vehicle (EV) also increases 
the chance of needing a panel or service upgrade which should be considered when 
looking at whole home electrification. 
Building Segmentation Analysis
According to the parcel data obtained from San Mateo County, there are 
approximately 96,800 single family residential buildings within the City of San Mateo. The 
years in which they were built (building vintage) are included in Figure 1.
3 Building vintage refers to the age (‘vintage’) of the building, based on the approximate date it was built. 
22 of 599

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
4
Figure 1
Number of Single-Family Residential Buildings Built by Year in the City of 
San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
In addition, there are approximately 12,100 multifamily buildings. The breakdown of 
buildings by type is included in Figure 2. No building vintage data for multifamily buildings 
was available at the time of drafting this report. 
Figure 2
Multifamily Housing in the City of San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
66,950
27,544
2,270
-
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
1970 or earlier
1970-2010
2010 or newer
Number of Buildings
-
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
Duplex
Triplex
FourPlex
Five or more units
Other
Number of Buildings
23 of 599

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
5
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis 
To better understand where natural gas is being used in San Mateo’s buildings, an 
appliance fuel source analysis was completed using existing data provided by PCE. The 
data provided by PCE leveraged the Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) for 
Climate Zone 3 for most appliance types with the exception of heating fuel source.4 
Heating fuel source data was based on the American Community Survey which utilizes 
specific San Mateo County Data.5 Heating system types were pulled from the RASS Study 
but normalized using American Community Survey (ACS) fuel source data which is more 
specific to San Mateo County. This normalization process weighted fuel types more 
heavily towards the ACS results for fuel types but utilizes the relevant equipment types 
from the RASS. This data is not specific to the City of San Mateo but provides a good 
understanding of the fuel and appliance types common in the region. Based on this 
analysis, most gas consumption in residential buildings comes from space and water 
heating, as shown in Figure 3.
4 The California Residential Appliance Saturation Study (RASS) is a comprehensive look at residential energy 
use. The California Energy Commission (CEC) manages the study, which is based on the California Home 
Energy Survey. The survey collects information from residents about appliances, heating and cooling 
equipment, electric vehicles, and energy.
5 The American Community Survey (ACS) detailed population and housing information and is intended to 
helps local officials, community leaders, and businesses understand the changes taking place in their 
communities.
24 of 599

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
6
Figure 3
2019 California Residential End Use Survey Gas Consumption
Data Source: California End Use Survey (CEUS)
Water Heating Fuel Types
In San Mateo County the vast majority of water heaters run on natural gas (though most 
gas water heaters also require electricity to operate) as shown in Figure 4.6 Multifamily 
buildings have the largest percentage of electric water heating. A small percentage of 
buildings within the county also run on bottled gas (propane), but these buildings are 
likely to be in the unincorporated areas away from natural gas infrastructure. 
6 https://www.schnellerair.com/blog/shower-during-power-outage/  
25 of 599

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
7
Figure 4
Water Heater Fuel Types by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
As shown in Figure 5, most of the water heaters in San Mateo County are standard gas 
fired water heaters, especially in single family homes. Whole house tankless gas water 
heaters are the next most common followed by standard electric resistance water 
heaters, tankless electric varieties and heat pumps. Different types of water heaters will 
have different space and cost impacts on operations. This detail will likely be building 
specific. However, standard gas tank water heaters are most common and can be 
replaced by heat pump tank water heaters in most scenarios. 
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Gas Water Heater
Electric Water Heater
Bottled Gas Water Heater
Percent Adoption By Appliance 
Type
26 of 599

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
8
Figure 5: Water Heater System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Furnace Types
Space heating is the second largest gas consumption device in residential buildings. 
Space heating in San Mateo County sees a much broader use of electric appliances 
especially in multifamily rentals and multifamily condos, as shown in Figure 6. Single family 
owned and rented buildings still use gas most commonly. Some wood and propane use 
is seen within the County, but is most likely in the unincorporated regions. 
Figure 6
Space Heating Fuel Types by Building Type in San Mateo County
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
standard tank gas water heater
whole house tankless gas water heater
standard tank electric water heater
heat pump electric water heater
whole house tankless electric water heater
point of use tankless electric water heater
standard tank propane water heater
whole house tankless propane water heater
NUmber of Appliances
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Utility gas
Electricity
Propane
Wood
Percent Adoption by 
Appliance Type
27 of 599

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
9
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
As shown in Figure 7, central gas furnaces are the most common space heating system 
type in the County, driven primarily by single family buildings. Currently, most electric 
space heating is electric resistance in both single and multifamily buildings. Different 
types of furnaces will have different space and cost impacts on operations. This detail will 
likely be building specific. However, central gas furnaces are most common and can be 
replaced by central air source heat pumps in most scenarios. These heat pumps also 
provide air conditioning. 
Figure 7
Space Heating System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Air Conditioning Prevalence and Type 
Most residential buildings in San Mateo County do not have air conditioning. Those that 
do, mostly single-family owned homes, use central AC. The lack of air conditioning within 
the County is important to note as projected increases in temperatures related to climate 
change may increase the need for air conditioning installations as a resilience measure. 
This represents an important opportunity for buildings to use a “two-way” air-conditioning 
system or heat pump. When considering the cost of both a furnace and air conditioner, 
a heat pump is significantly less expensive (see cost analysis below). 
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
Central gas 
furnace
Floor/wall 
gas furnace
Other gas 
heating 
Electric 
resistance
Central 
electric 
furnace
Heat pump
Other 
electric 
heating
Propane
Wood
Single family owned
Single family rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
Number of Appliances
28 of 599

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
10
Figure 8
Air Conditioning System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County 
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Stove Types
Within San Mateo County, gas and propane (bottled gas) fueled units make up 
approximately 60% of all stoves while electric units make up the remaining 40% as shown 
in Figure 9. Electric stoves are most common in multifamily rental units.
Figure 9
Stoves Fuel Type by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single 
family 
owned
Single 
family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile 
homes
No A/C
Multiple A/C Types
Room A/C only
Central Evap Cooler only
Central A/C only
Number of Buildings With AC Type
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Natural Gas
Electricity
Bottled Gas
Percent Adoption by Appliance 
Type
 
29 of 599

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
11
Figure 10 shows the total number of residential stoves in San Mateo County by fuel type 
and building type. Gas stoves are most common in single family units while multifamily 
units tend to use electric. 
Figure 10 Stove Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Clothes Dryer Types
Most residential buildings in San Mateo County have a clothes dryer with dryers being 
most common in single family units. Electric clothes dryers make up nearly 40% of all dryer 
use, while only 27% are gas. The remaining 34% of units do not have a dryer on site 
according to the RASS data. 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Electricity
Natural Gas
Number of Appliances
30 of 599

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
12
Figure 11 Clothes Dryer Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
 
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Pools
Approximately 849 residential buildings (4%) have pools within the City of San Mateo, 
according to PCE. Pools in the City of San Mateo are likely to be heated using gas. 
PART 2: HIGH-RISE MULTIFAMILY AND COMMERCIAL BUILDING 
SEGMENTATION ANALYSIS 
Commercial Buildings and High-Rise Multifamily Building 
Segmentation Analysis
Total commercial buildings (1,244 individual buildings) segregated by type based on San 
Mateo County parcel data are shown in Figure 12. The most common commercial 
building type in San Mateo is office followed by retail. Mixed use, auto sales, and 
warehouses make up the next most common building by total count. 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
No Dryer
Electricity
Natural Gas
Number of Appliances
31 of 599

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
13
Figure 12 Commercial Buildings by Type in the City of San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
Data on commercial building energy usage by appliance/end use specific to San Mateo 
or San Mateo County was not available at the time of this memorandum’s analysis. 
However, the California Energy Commission published the 2006 California Commercial 
End-Use Survey (CEUS) which details statewide commercial energy use. An updated 
2018-2022 CEUS is likely to be released soon, though it is currently delayed due to COVID-
19 related impacts. Therefore, the 2016 CEUS is the most up-to-date information available 
on California’s commercial building energy consumption. CEUS filters results by utility 
which allows for some refinement, compared to the statewide results. The PG&E results 
are summarized below. The full report is no longer on the CEC website, but can be found 
here.7 
Within the PG&E service area there are just under 2 billion square feet of commercial floor 
space. The building types with the largest floor area are miscellaneous with 23%, large 
offices with 15% and retail with 14%. Total natural gas usage from these buildings is 
estimated at 565 Million therms per year with three building types representing over 54% 
of total natural gas usage: restaurants (21%) miscellaneous (20%) and health (13%). Total 
electricity and gas usage by end use are shown in Figure 13 and Figure 14, respectively. 
7 https://planning.lacity.org/eir/CrossroadsHwd/deir/files/references/C19.pdf
291
268
144
122
108
84
51
50
39
45
42
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Office/Professional Building
Retail
Mixed Use
Auto Sales/Repair
Warehouse
Industrial/MFG
Churches
Hotels, Nursing Homes, Guest House
Resturants 
Education
Other
Number of Buildings
32 of 599

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
14
Figure 13  Commercial Electricity by End Use (2006 CEUS)
Figure 14 Commercial Gas Consumption by End Use
28.9%
14.8%
12.4%
12.4%
8.2%
5.9%
5.2%
4.6%
3.8%
1.8%
0.9%
0.8%
0.3%
0.0%
5.0%
10.0%
15.0%
20.0%
25.0%
30.0%
35.0%
Interior Lighting
Refrigeration
Ventilation
Cooling
Office Equipment
Miscellaneous
Exterior Lighting
Cooking
Motors
Heating
Air Compressors
Water Heating
Process
Space Heating, 44%
Water Heating, 30%
Cooking, 20%
Process, 5%
Miscellaneous, 1%
Cooling, 1%
Space Heating
Water Heating
Cooking
Process
Miscellaneous
Cooling
33 of 599

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
15
As shown in the figures above, gas is the predominant energy source for commercial 
space and water heating with less than 1% of all electricity being used for commercial 
water heating and less than 2% of electricity being used for space heating. 
Commercial Space and Water Heating Types
The CEUS does not provide energy consumption by type of space and water heating 
equipment. However, PCE did provide data on equipment prevalence for commercial 
buildings based on Commercial Saturation Survey (CSS). Commercial Heating Ventilation 
and, Air Conditioning (HVAC) equipment types for San Mateo County are included in 
Figure 15. The majority of HVAC equipment are packaged single zone (SZ) furnaces with 
cooling, which are also the easiest to electrify. 
Figure 15 Commercial Space Heating Equipment Prevalence by Type in San Mateo 
County (PCE)
Data Source: PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan
PCE also provided information on commercial water heating. Water heating 
equipment is broken down into five categories with a mix of both gas and electric 
appliances being present in commercial buildings within the County. Most of these 
systems are natural gas tank water heaters, as shown in 
Figure 16.
34 of 599

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
16
Figure 16 Commercial Water Heating Equipment Prevalence by Type in San Mateo 
County (PCE)
Data Source: PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan
PART 3: RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS 
ELECTRIFICATION COST ANALYSIS
Electrification Up-Front Costs - Single-Family and Low-Rise 
Multifamily Buildings 
Up-front costs include the costs to purchase an appliance, install it, and make it 
operational. Up-front costs to electrify were analyzed using the most recent and location 
specific data available. Third party vetted sources from local government and 
community choice aggregator (CCA) reports and data sets specific to the City and 
County of San Mateo were used for most data sources. Sources for each data set used 
in the analysis are summarized in 
Table 1 below. 
For most up-front costs, median install values were selected to inform the cost analysis. 
Using median costs helped remove outlier quotes from contractors, which would have 
influenced the average value. Quotes for some equipment, such as HVAC units, could 
vary by as much as $15,000 for the same project. 
Where there are exceptions to this data filtering process, due to missing data, data 
substitution methods will be clarified in the relevant cell of the analysis.
35 of 599

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
17
Table 1 Data Sources Analyzed for Single Family Cost Analysis
Author/Source
Source Description
Analysis Use and Considerations
Peninsula Clean Energy 
(PCE)
2035 Decarbonization Feasibility 
Analysis & Plan: Complete Analysis 
and Draft Plan (September 2022)8
Electric and gas appliance installation 
costs, including wiring, appliance cost, 
labor, and markup. 
Commercial rooftop package unit cost 
data. 
Josie Gaillard & Tom 
Kabat via funding from 
BayREN & County of 
San Mateo Office of 
Sustainability 
Decarbonizing Single Family Homes 
(January 2023)9
Single-Family Home 
Decarbonization Case Study: San 
Mateo 1-Story Home (March 2023)10
Electric and gas appliance installation 
costs (all-cost inclusive), based on 
specific equipment and models, bids 
for 10 homes under consideration as 
part of cumulative case study. 
One City of San Mateo Single-Family 
Home case study analyzed. 
BayREN Contractor 
Install Dataset
BayREN Contractor-Input Raw Data 
for Electric Appliance Installation 
(Excel), filtered for most recent year 
input (2022)
This raw data source was also used to 
inform the PCE 2035 Decarbonization 
Feasibility Analysis and Plan
TECH Clean California 
Install Dataset
TECH Clean California Install 
Dataset-Input Raw Data for Electric 
Appliance Installation (Excel), 
filtered for most recent year input 
(2022)
This raw data source was also used to 
inform the PCE 2035 Decarbonization 
Feasibility Analysis and Plan
Note: Existing datasets and reports did not cover the cost of air conditioning (both appliance and installation), which 
was found using desktop research (Angie’s List), filtering for location-specific costs11
Low Rise Multifamily Applicability 
In general, the costs for single family homes and the costs per unit for low rise multifamily 
homes (3 stories and under) will be similar. Low rise multifamily homes tend to use similar 
equipment and one piece of equipment (such as a hot water heater or furnace can 
serve one or multiple units). In some low-rise multifamily units there may be a single larger 
piece of equipment shared between multiple units (an example would be an 80 gallon 
hot water heater being used by both units in a duplex). Therefore, the per unit costs for 
electrification in Table 3 are assumed to be conservative for multifamily buildings which 
use residential (as opposed to commercial) sized equipment. High rise multifamily homes 
(over 3 stories) look more like commercial buildings with a wide variety of equipment and 
the potential for larger centralized systems, which will be described further in *Note that IRA 
incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by the building owner or 
contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to Table 6 for a full summary 
of rebates and incentives by funder.
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building Costs. 
8 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/2022.09-BOD-2035-Decarb-Plan-Complete-
Analysis-Draft-Plan-1.pdf
9 https://www.smcsustainability.org/wp-content/uploads/Decarbonizing-Single-Family-Homes.pdf
10 https://www.smcsustainability.org/energy-water/decarbonizing-homes/cost-plans/
11 https://www.angi.com/articles/how-much-does-installing-new-ac-cost.htm
36 of 599

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
18
Up-Front Costs for Electrification 
•
Key figure highlight: Whole home electrification could be less expensive for 
building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once 
rebates are included.
o
Full-home appliance replacement with new gas appliances: 
$11,012 - $18,51212
o
Before incentives: Full-home appliance replacement with new 
electric appliances13 marginal cost: $13,291- $20,93614
o
After incentives: Full-home appliance replacement with new 
electric appliances marginal cost: +$1,790 in cost savings – 
$3,83615
To understand the up-front costs of electrification, Rincon gathered data through existing 
analysis described in 
Table 1 to determine the cost to install new gas appliances as well as new electric 
appliances. These costs were all-inclusive, incorporating wiring upgrades, labor costs, 
appliance costs, permitting, and contractor markup. 
Rincon assumed that in an electrification scenario for a home, switching any gas 
appliances to an electric appliance would only occur if the gas appliance no longer 
functioned or was due for replacement (‘burnout’), for other consumer preference 
reasons (ex. public health, climate consciousness), or was voluntarily upgraded to a 
modern electric option. Because of this electrify on replacement scenario, Rincon further 
determined the marginal cost of the electrification scenario by comparing: 
•
Gas to gas “like for like” scenario- an old gas appliance is replaced with a new 
similar gas appliance. 
•
Gas to electric “electrification” scenario- an old gas appliance is replaced with 
a new similar electric appliance. 
The marginal cost is the difference between the electrification scenario, and the gas to 
gas, or “like for like” scenario. By focusing on the time of replacement the cost of 
electrification is the difference between a standard gas replacement and an electric 
upgrade. While some building owners may opt to replace their appliances before 
burnout in order to gain the benefits of electrification (improved air quality, lower GHG 
emissions, bill savings) most people are expected to wait until burnout to replace their 
appliances. Therefore, while both gross and marginal costs are included in this 
memorandum, the marginal cost described in detail in Table 7 7 should be the focus for 
determining cost effectiveness.
12 Low scenario does not include AC, high scenario does include AC (in addition to a gas powered furnace)
13 Also known as ‘electrification’
14 This scenario does not include air conditioning, which would subtract $7,500 from both scenarios as a heat pump 
would displace the need to install an AC in addition to a gas fired furnace. 
15 Low scenario = Total costs with no panel upgrade with low-cost HVAC scenario and no AC, median HVAC scenario
37 of 599

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
19
In reviewing the San Mateo existing data, there were four key factors that determine 
costs for home electrification that were apparent in the literature and data: 
•
Avoiding panel upgrades through a watt diet16, panel management, or home 
electrification plan could result in significant savings ($3,700) for home 
electrification, though building owners may want to consider that installing 
future charging capacity for an electric vehicle may necessitate a panel 
upgrade anyway.17
•
HVAC appliance costs and HVAC installation costs made up the largest single 
cost of electrifying a building. The cost range for HVAC installation was also the 
largest with quotes for the same HVAC system ranging by as much as $15,000. 
This variability emphasizes the need to get multiple quotes is very important.18
•
The large cost range for HVAC equipment necessitated the Project Team 
running both a low-cost and median cost for electric heat pump HVAC System, 
which had a $3,944 difference between scenarios. 
•
Labor costs and quotes from contractors are likely the most expensive and 
variable factor in home electrification, not appliance cost.19 
16 Watt Diet refers to the practice of minimizing the peak electricity demand through smart chargers and other 
technology to avoid a panel upgrade. 
17 https://www.smcsustainability.org/energy/decarbonizing-homes/
18 PCE 2035 Decarb Plan Analysis
19 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/2022.01.13-CAC-2035-Decarb-Feasibility-
Plan.pdf
38 of 599

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
20
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Gas “Like for Like” Upfront Costs
In the gas ‘like for like’ scenario (base case), where it is assumed that the building owner 
replaces existing natural gas appliances with new gas-fired appliances, the typical 
whole-home cost in San Mateo, without air conditioning20 is $11,012. Once costs for air 
conditioning are added in, the total projected cost to replace all appliances that run on 
gas plus an AC is $18,512. This analysis demonstrates the amount of money that building 
owners would spend as a baseline if they planned on replacing their appliances. 
These costs describe all up-front costs for installation, appliance, and labor, by taking the 
average of collected median values for appliance types, while aggregating appliance 
types by end use (with the exception of AC, described in the note below Table 2).
Table 2
Like-for-Like Scenario: Replace Gas Appliances with Similar, New Gas 
Appliances (Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring
End Use
Median/Average Cost (All Data)
Gas-fired water heater
Water 
Heating
 $2,800 
Gas-fired HVAC system
Space 
Heating
 $6,132 
AC (keep existing furnace) * 
Space 
Cooling
 $7,500 
Gas-fired dryer
Clothes 
Drying
 $925 
Gas-fired stove
Cooking
 $1,155 
Whole-Home Cost w/o AC 
 $11,012 
Whole-Home+ AC
 $18,512 
* Note: Existing datasets and reports did not cover the cost of air conditioning, which was found using desktop 
research (Angie’s List), filtering for location-specific costs by zip code, refers to central air conditioner.21 The air 
conditioner (AC) uses electricity not gas to operate.
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Electric – No Incentives Applied Upfront Cost
In the gas to electric scenario (electric scenario) where it is assumed that the building 
owner replaces existing natural gas appliances with new electric appliances, the total 
whole-home electrification cost to replace all gas-powered appliances with all-electric, 
with no incentives or rebates applied, is: 
Assuming that home electrification does not require an electric panel upgrade22: 
20 According to the 2035 Peninsula Clean Energy Decarbonization Analysis, only 25% of homes in San Mateo County 
have Air Conditioning, with central air conditioning being the most common type of air conditioner. 
21 https://www.angi.com/articles/how-much-does-installing-new-ac-cost.htm
22 As discussed in the BayREN Decarbonizing Single-Family Homes Case Study, potentially costly electric panel upgrades 
are frequently recommended by contractors without first understanding the many potential avenues to avoid this cost 
through maximum usage of existing service capacity. The amp cutoff for electric panel upgrade is widely understood to 
be 100 amps or higher- a building with below 100 amps likely will need a panel upgrade to accommodate all-electric 
appliances. The BayREN Decarbonization Case Study recommends several ways for “panel optimization”, including 
making a whole home electrification plan, and investing in circuit sharing and pausing infrastructure instead of a panel 
upgrade. 
39 of 599

--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
21
•
$24,303-$28,248
Assuming that home electrification does require an electric panel upgrade (particularly 
for homes with electric panels less than 100 amps): 
•
$28,003-$31,948
40 of 599

--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
22
The difference between both electric panel scenarios described above is the difference 
between the ‘low’ and ‘median’ heat pump scenario, which was broken out to detail 
the significant difference in installation bids for electric heat pump HVAC systems. This 
discrepancy in installation bids from contractors stems from home-specific needs for 
ductwork upgrades, locations to house HVAC systems, and labor costs which are highly 
variable depending on the contractor. These two scenarios show that installation costs 
for HVAC and the potential need for an electric panel upgrade are two of the largest 
influencers of cost in home electrification for the City of San Mateo. 
These costs can be significantly or partially offset by stacked federal 
and local incentives as described in the 
Table 5 Full-Home Electrification (Replace All Appliances with Electric) Marginal Cost 
Scenarios
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost- No AC Cost 
Savings
Low-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC
Full-home electrification (w/o AC or panel Upgrade)
 $13,291 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $16,991 
Median-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC or panel upgrade) 
 $17,236 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $20,936 
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost – With AC Cost 
Savings
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $5,791 
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $9,736 
Full-home electrification, with AC, panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $9,491 
Full-home electrification, with AA, panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $13,436 
Current Incentives for Electrification section below. Whole home costs for replacing gas 
appliances with electric with no incentives applied are shown below in Table 3,
Table 3 Electrification Scenario: Cost to Replace Gas Appliances with Electric 
Appliances (No Incentives, Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring*
End Use
Median/Average 
Cost (All Data)
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $6,000 
Space Heating/Cooling - Median 
Scenario 
 $17,910 
Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating and 
cooling) 
Space Heating/Cooling- Low 
Scenario 
 $13,965
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $1,963 
Electric stove
Cooking
 $2,375 
41 of 599

--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
23
Panel Upgrade (Only if needed)
Electrical (additional one-time 
costs)
 $3,700 
Low Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (w/o panel upgrade) 
 $24,303 
Low Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade) 
 $28,003 
Median Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (w/o panel upgrade) 
 $28,248 
Median Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade) 
 $31,948 
Electrification Scenario: Marginal Costs (Difference Between Gas and Electric Install 
Costs)
‘Marginal costs’ for electrification are at the core of this analysis as they describe the cost 
difference between the assumed investment needed to replace a gas appliance that 
would happen during ‘burnout’ or equipment upgrade with all-electric technologies. Put 
simply, marginal costs describe how much more expensive it would be to go all-electric, 
rather than replace non-functioning appliances with gas. Zeroing out this difference 
between electric and gas install costs would mean that electrifying does not increase 
the cost burden on building owners in San Mateo when compared to the baseline ‘gas 
for gas’ replacement, addressing a key cost and equity hurdle for developing existing 
building electrification policies. 
Assuming that the home electrification scenario replaced a combined furnace and AC 
with a heat pump23 , the marginal cost to electrify (without incentives) would range from: 
•
$5,791-$9,736
23 This would entail subtracting out the additional cost of replacing an AC, as a heat pump provides both heating a 
cooling functions, functionally displacing the need to replace both a gas-powered furnace and an air conditioner under 
the ‘like for like’ scenario
42 of 599

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
24
Assuming that the home electrification scenario does not have AC/does not want AC, 
and also does not require a panel upgrade, marginal costs to electrify before rebates 
would range from: 
•
$13,291-$17,236
o
This cost range for both scenarios is based on the install 
difference between low and median heat pump HVAC systems 
o
If an electric panel upgrade was added, $3,700 would be added 
to each cost range scenario
Marginal costs for replacing gas appliances with electric, with no incentives applied are 
shown below in Table 4 by appliance type and end use, and with different full-home 
electrification scenarios with and without air conditioning cost savings, panel upgrades, 
and low and median cost heat pump scenarios included in Table 5. 
Table 4
Electrification Scenario Marginal Costs (Appliance Level) 
Appliance
End Use
Median/ 
Average Cost
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $3,200 
Space Heating/Cooling: Median 
Cost Scenario 
 $11,778 
Without AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system 
Space Heating/Cooling: Low-Cost 
Scenario
 $7,833 
With AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating 
and cooling; replaces need for additional AC) 
Space Heating/ Cooling
 $(7,500)
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $1,038 
Electric stove
Cooking
 $1,220 
Additional One-Time Costs: Panel Upgrade
 $3,700 
Table 5 Full-Home Electrification (Replace All Appliances with Electric) Marginal Cost 
Scenarios
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost- No AC Cost 
Savings
Low-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC
Full-home electrification (w/o AC or panel Upgrade)
 $13,291 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $16,991 
Median-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC or panel upgrade) 
 $17,236 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $20,936 
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost – With AC Cost 
Savings
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $5,791 
43 of 599

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
25
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $9,736 
Full-home electrification, with AC, panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $9,491 
Full-home electrification, with AA, panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $13,436 
Current Incentives for Electrification 
Depending on project availability, current appliance electrification incentives available 
through the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE), BayREN, TECH 
Clean California when combined make building owners eligible for $22,600 in rebates, 
which are summarized in Table 66. Incentives take the form of both rebates and tax 
incentives. Tax incentives through the IRA require the building owner to have some tax 
burden to reduce. 
Data for existing rebates were collected from most recent online sources on existing 
federal-level (IRA24), local (PCE25, BayREN26, TECH Clean California27) sources of home 
electrification rebates. 
24 https://www.rewiringamerica.org/IRAguide
25 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/residential-programs/
26 https://www.bayren.org/articles-tools-tips/electrification
27 https://switchison.org/
44 of 599

--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
26
Table 66 Current Incentives (as of August 2023)
Appliance
End Use
$ Rebate/ Tax 
Credit* Available
Funder 
Notes 
 $3,500 
PCE
Stackable with other incentives, but most cannot exceed cost of 
projects; All PCE- capped at $14,000
 $1,000 
BayRE
N
All BayREN- capped at $7750
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $2,000* 
IRA 
Max for IRA 30% heat pump water heater tax incentive ($2000) max, 
must have paid taxes in calendar year. Additional low-middle income 
IRA incentives are upcoming but not included here.
Heat Pump Water Heater Total Stackable 
Rebates and Tax Credits Available 
 $6,500 
 
 
 $4,000 
PCE 
Stackable with other incentives, but most cannot exceed cost of 
projects 
 $1,000 
BayRE
N 
 $2,000*
IRA 
Tax Credit, same as description for electric heat pump water heater
HVAC System 
Space Heating/ 
Cooling
 $1,000 
Tech 
Single family incentives of $1,000 for new heat pump HVAC systems, with 
up to two incentivized systems per home for a total of $2,000; must be a 
TECH-enrolled contractor; project must be a non-heat pump to heat 
pump installation; no new construction, retrofits only; equipment must be 
AHRI matched systems; equipment must meet Title 24 code minimum 
standards.
HVAC System Total Stackable Rebates and Tax 
Credits Available 
 
 $8,000 
 
 
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $250 
BayRE
N
Specifies heat pump clothes dryer 
Electric Dryer Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $250 
 
 
Induction Stove
Cooking
 $250 
BayRE
N
specifies Induction Range
Induction Stove Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $250 
 
 
 $1,500 
PCE
 
Additional One-Time Costs - Panel and New Circuits 
 $600* 
IRA 
Tax credit for panel upgrades- available in conjunction with other home 
upgrades (ex. weatherization, electrification, solar) 
Electric Panel Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $2,100 
 
 
Total electric home rebates available 
All-systems
 $5,500 
Tech 
Single Family - Each single-family property (includes duplex, townhomes, 
and manufactured homes) must install heat pump space heating, heat 
45 of 599

--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
27
pump water heating, electric or induction cooking, and an electric 
dryer.
Electric Panel Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $5,500 
 
 
Total Electrification Incentives (Rebates + Tax Credits) Available 
$22,600 
 
 
Total Electrification Rebates Available $
$18,000
Total Electrification IRA Tax Credits Available $*
$4,600
*While rebates can be applied upfront by either the building owner or contractor, depending on the incentive program, IRA tax credits can be deducted from 
total taxes owed, meaning that the building owner would have to wait until tax season to receive the full cost reduction to electrify 
46 of 599

--- page 47 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
449 15th Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
510-834-4455
28
Federal Electrification Incentives under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) & the High 
Efficiency Electric Home Rebate Act28
The IRA was signed into law on August 2022, ushering in significant federal policy support 
and funding for building decarbonization. The High Efficiency Electric Home Rebate Act 
(HEEHRA) is the official name of the IRA’s rebate program for electric home technology 
including heat pumps, electrical wiring, and induction stoves, which will be available 
starting in 2023. Low-income households up to 80% of Area Median Income (AMI) can 
access 100% of upfront discount incentives, while moderate-income households from 80-
150% AMI can access up to 50% of the upfront discount, in addition to tax credits that 
vary based on household income. Total HEEHRA discounts are capped at $14,000 across 
all electrification projects. 
Cost reductions under HEEHRA are not included in this analysis as details are still 
developing and the incentives may not be available to everyone, as City of San Mateo 
building owners are generally classified as high income. However, for low and moderate-
income households up to 150% of AMI in San Mateo, IRA incentives may further increase 
the effectiveness of local electrification incentives available via PCE and BayREN, and 
help to close the gap for appliances where subsidies don’t always zero-out marginal 
costs, like HVAC systems, dryers, and induction ranges. 
Electrification Upfront Costs with Incentives Applied 
In the final piece of the cost analysis, we have applied the rebates described in Table 66 
to the marginal costs described in Table 4 to see if rebates and tax incentives can make 
electric technologies the same, or less costly than the gas scenario. For this analysis, the 
referenced $5,500 total home electrification rebate provided by Energy Smart Homes 
California was not applied since it requires a complete home electrification project at 
one time. Since this analysis focuses on time of replacement, this rebate was not applied 
to the analysis. 
The analysis shows that with the low-cost scenario for HVAC applied, in a house without 
AC, when all incentives are stacked, total costs without a panel upgrade, electrification 
could save building owners in San Mateo $1,709. 
On the high end of the marginal costs + incentives range, electrifying a home without 
AC, with a panel upgrade, under the Median HVAC cost analysis scenario, would be 
$3,836 more expensive than a gas-for-gas scenario. These results are summarized in Table 
7 7.
28 https://www.rewiringamerica.org/IRAguide
47 of 599

--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
29
Table 7 7
Electrification Marginal Up-Front Costs + Incentives* 
Appliance
Cost 
Estimate
Combined 
Incentives
Total Marginal Cost 
with Incentives
Electrification Scenario Marginal Cost with Peninsula Clean Energy, BayREN, IRA Incentives
Electric heat pump water heater
 $3,200 
 $(6,500)
$(3,300)
Without AC-Low Cost HVAC
 $7,833 
 $(8,000)
$(167)
Without AC- HVAC system
 $11,778 
 $(8,000)
$3,778 
With AC- HVAC System 
 $4,278 
 $(8,000)
$(3,722)
Electric dryer
 $1,038 
 $(250)
$788 
Electric stove
 $1,220 
 $(250)
$970 
Additional One-Time Costs - Panel and New Circuits 
 $3,700 
 $(2,100)
$1,600 
Total Costs no panel upgrade low Cost HVAC No AC
$(1,709)
Total Costs No Panel Upgrade Median HVAC no AC
 $2,236 
Total Costs W/ Panel Upgrade Median HVAC w/o AC 
 $3,836 
Total Costs and Panel Upgrade Median HVAC with AC 
 $(3,665)
*Note that IRA incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by the 
building owner or contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to Table 
66 for a full summary of rebates and incentives by funder.
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building Costs
To better understand costs and other constraints related to multifamily and nonresidential 
building electrification, Rincon reviewed best-available existing resources on this topic, 
namely, the PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan (2022), and The Rocky Mountain Institute The 
Economics of Electrifying Buildings: Medium Size Commercial Retrofits (2022)29. This 
document review is also supplemented by original contractor interviews conducted by 
Rincon for the upcoming Sacramento Electric Buildings Strategy (2022). Though not strictly 
City of San Mateo specific, the technical considerations of challenges to electrify 
oversized buildings are consistent between Sacramento and San Mateo, so are 
referenced here as recent region-specific resources for commercial electrification in 
Northern California.
Electrification Up-Front Costs and Other Considerations
While single family and low rise multifamily residential buildings tend to use similar 
equipment and operate in similar ways, commercial buildings and high-rise multifamily 
buildings tend to be highly variable. In original research conducted by Rincon for the City 
of Sacramento in the summer of 2022, all interviewees30 communicated that larger 
multifamily and nonresidential buildings are more complicated to electrify than single-
29 https://rmi.org/insight/economics-of-electrifying-buildings-medium-size-commercial-retrofits/
30 To better understand costs and other constraints related to multifamily and nonresidential building electrification, 
Rincon conducted interviews with three energy engineering consultants working on large building decarbonization in 
Sacramento. Five additional interviewees were identified through the City’s contact network to speak to this topic, 
including energy managers and directors of UC Davis Health. Sacramento Municipal Utility District, Brighton Energy, 
Association for Energy Affordability, TRC Companies.
48 of 599

--- page 49 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
30
family homes and estimating costs is typically only possible on a project-by-project basis. 
This is because for most larger buildings, replacing a gas system with a similarly sized 
electric system is cost-prohibitive and therefore, often requires building re-engineering to 
determine appliance replacement and sizing options. For this reason, a detailed cost 
analysis for larger multifamily and commercial buildings was not developed and included 
here. Smaller buildings with domestic-sized space and water heating end uses, such as 
small to medium-sized retail or service buildings, have similar electrification costs as seen 
for single-family homes. 
However, some equipment types are similar across building types and the cost to electrify 
can be more readily analyzed at a high level. The PCE analysis notes that packaged 
commercial HVAC equipment, namely, packaged Single Zone (SZ) Gas Furnace with 
Cooling, are easy to electrify, as existing building 2-way A/C ordinances can cover most 
units without the requirement for incentives. The PCE Analysis also notes that the 
Packaged SZ Gas Furnace with Cooling offers a sizable opportunity to electrify, with 5,441 
Packaged SZ Gas Furnace with Cooling units across the County of San Mateo as shown 
below in Figure 17. Because of the relative cost parity and ease of adoption, there is 
already uptake of all-electric packaged SZ heat pumps, accounting for nearly 20% of 
analyzed existing commercial HVAC Equipment, as shown previously in Figure 15.
Figure 17 PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan Commercial HVAC Equipment Analysis
PCE analyzed commercial rooftop packaged unit costs, finding that rooftop heat pumps 
are nearly identical to gas-fired rooftop packaged units, even without additional 
incentives, as shown below in Figure 18. This indicates that local policy and potential new 
incentives to retrofit using heat pump RTUs could be an impactful and cost effective 
strategy to achieve widespread commercial building electrification. 
49 of 599

--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
31
Figure 18 PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan Commercial Rooftop Package Unit Cost 
Analysis
The Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) ‘The Economics of Electrifying Buildings: Medium-Size 
Commercial Retrofits’ Report notes that local policy, or expectations of new local 
building electrification policies, will be a key driver in advancing commercial energy 
electrification, as portfolio owners will want to avoid stranded assets unless they 
undertake electrification. The RMI report focused on the electrification of HVAC systems 
from rooftop units (RTUS) with Heat Pump Rooftop Package Units (RTUs), on a 
prototypical 50,000 sq ft office building. 
The RMI report modeled 5 cases to assess the economics of RTU retrofits: Case 1: No 
electrification, Case 2: Partial electrification, Case 3: Full electrification, Case 4: efficient 
electrification, Case 5: efficient electrification + demand management, Case 6: 
Efficient electrification + demand management and PV. These cases, found that in the 
cases of more temperate climates like Las Vegas and Seattle, building owners could 
50 of 599

--- page 51 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
32
achieve either neutral or positive 20-year net present value through full electrification 
(Seattle), or with full electrification with demand management and solar photovoltaics 
(Las Vegas), as shown in Figure 19.
Figure 19  RMI Report Exhibit 3: The 20-year Net Present Value of Each Case by City31
The results from the RMI study have three important San-Mateo-relevant takeaways, 
which is that 1) electrification policy, with electrification-specific prescriptive language 
for commercial building owners will be critical in actually electrifying commercial 
buildings, and 2) electrification of commercial building electric retrofits will likely have to 
be paired with a suite of demand management, energy efficiency, or renewable energy 
projects in order to make building electrification economical for building owners, and 3) 
heat pump rooftop package units are the most promising electrification solution for 
commercial building electrification, offering a replicable model for a 1:1 equipment 
swap-out. 
Case Studies
In addition to the PCE analysis, Rincon identified all-electric retrofit case study projects 
related to offices, schools, and restaurants. Schools (primary and secondary), restaurants 
(full-service and quick-service), and hospitals represent large commercial gas users in the 
City of San Mateo. Case studies were pulled from The Redwood Energy Pocket Guide to 
All-Electric Retrofits,32 the William J Worthen (WJW) Foundation Building Decarbonization 
31 Page 20 of: https://rmi.org/insight/economics-of-electrifying-buildings-medium-size-commercial-retrofits/
32 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
51 of 599

--- page 52 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
33
Practice 
Guide 
Volume 
5,33 
and 
the 
California 
State 
University 
(CalState) 
Decarbonization Framework,34 and summarized here. Rincon will continue to look for 
more resources in these areas as the project progresses. 
Office
IMMIX LAW OFFICE, PORTLAND, OR (11,615 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
The building utilizes a highly efficient dedicated outside air system (DOAS) with heat 
recovery ventilation (HRV) for their HVAC system, which separates heating and cooling 
from the ventilation system to allow for optimal control of each of these critical building 
functions. The new HVAC system is comprised of a 16-ton Mitsubishi variable refrigerant 
flow (VRF) and four Ventacity VS1000RT HRVs. The HVAC system heats and cools 30 office 
spaces, five conference rooms, a lunchroom, exercise room, two restrooms, and open 
common spaces. The project resulted in increased occupant comfort, improved indoor 
air quality, lower energy bills (between $300 to $700 per month to heat, cool, and 
ventilate the building), saved roof space, and precise temperature and humidity control. 
The building has seen a 63% reduction in energy usage.35
100 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, MANHATTAN, NY (>20,000 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
This building was retrofitted to meet all winter space heating needed for exterior offices 
with waste heat from the air conditioning in the interior core of the building during the 
winter through an all-electric multizone heat pump HVAC system. Multizone systems are 
best for larger (20,000 square feet or more), more diverse buildings. While only 6% of HVAC 
systems in California are multizone systems that could be replaced with multizone heat 
pump technology, these buildings represent 37% to 75% of the GHG emissions from all 
buildings. They are technically complex to design and require highly skilled installers but 
also represent the largest GHG reduction opportunities.36
SONOMA CLEAN POWER HEADQUARTERS, SANTA ROSA, CA (15,000 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
The building was originally built in 1979 in Downtown Santa Rosa and retrofitted with all 
new insulation, all-new windows, all-new siding, and all-new mechanical systems. As part 
of the retrofit, the building installed Daikin rooftop units with variable air volume delivery 
and thermofusers at the zone level. The project also included its own microgrid and 
electric vehicle charging, which required an electrical service upgrade.37
33 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
34 CalState Office of the Chancellor. 2022. CSU Decarbonization Framework.
35 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
36 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
37 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
52 of 599

--- page 53 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
34
School
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, CALIFORNIA
The CSU Chancellor’s Office released a building decarbonization framework for the CSU 
system, which includes tools to evaluate central plan equipment, thermal overlap 
calculations for each campus, and a life cycle cost calculation tool for different 
decarbonization strategies. The framework provides all 23 campuses with a technical 
roadmap for replacing fossil fuel infrastructure with clean, electrified alternatives. The 
associated heat recovery potential and natural gas reduction at each campus was 
analyzed. The Sacramento CSU campus currently uses 78,164 million British Thermal Units 
per hour (MBTU) for cooling and 52,739 MBTU for heating. The heat recovery potential 
estimated for the building after adding thermal energy storage on site is 64% and the 
estimated natural gas reduction potential is 422,000 therms.38
CHATHAM UNIVERSITY EDEN HALL CAMPUS, PITTSBURGH, PA (ALL-ELECTRIC NEW CONSTRUCTION)
The campus is the world’s first fully self-sustained and zero net energy (ZNE) university 
campus. The campus includes 46 geothermal wells, an on-campus water treatment site, 
and a 40-acre farm. The campus kitchen was designed based on extensive energy 
analysis focusing on commercial kitchen equipment and HVAC systems. The analysis 
showed that induction equipment would reduce total kitchen energy consumption by 
over 50% compared to a traditional gas kitchen. The campus also installed demand-
based exhaust hoods with integrated heat recovery, a geo-exchange heat pump, and 
radiant heating and cooling systems for a low-energy HVAC system. The facility operates 
with an energy usage of approximately 60% below the typical full-service restaurant.39 
Restaurant
OYSTERMAN SEAFOOD BAR & KITCHEN, LONDON, ENGLAND; RETROFIT (INDUCTION UNITS)
The restaurant switched from gas to induction units, which allowed the restaurant to serve 
guests at a significantly faster rate. Gas ranges and fryers are half as efficient at 
transferring heat as electric ranges and fryers (35% vs. 75%), and electric ranges boil water 
twice as fast as gas ranges. Electric kitchens, therefore, use half or less as much heat to 
cook food and require half as much air conditioning. Electric equipment also takes less 
space to do the same amount of cooking, making it easier for a kitchen to expand its 
cooking capacity. In addition to these benefits, Oysterman also experienced fewer chef 
burns with their induction burners and found cleaning to be much easier, ultimately 
reducing staff turnover.40
BENIHANA JAPANESE STEAK HOUSE, VARIOUS LOCATIONS, U.S.; RETROFIT (INDUCTION GRILL)
The first Benihana steakhouse was started in New York City in 1964 and has since grown 
to 116 restaurants. Benihana performs teppanyaki cooking on steel grills. Recently the 
38 CalState Office of the Chancellor. 2022. CSU Decarbonization Framework.
39 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
40 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
53 of 599

--- page 54 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
35
restaurant chain converted its gas teppan grills to electric resistance and induction grills, 
which can cook meats faster, hotter, and more efficiently than gas while reducing the 
risk of uncontrolled fires.41
HOTEL MARCEL, NEW HAVEN, CT; NEW ALL-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION
The hotel has an all-electric commercial kitchen, which uses induction, including an 
induction wok setup.42 Induction woks are not common in American commercial 
kitchens, however, they are becoming increasingly popular in Mainland China, Taiwan, 
Hong Kong, and Macau. Many commercial options exist on the market for induction 
cookers that can accommodate concave pans (such as woks). 15 million induction 
cookstoves were sold in Mainland China in 2020, with a growth of nearly 4% from the 
previous year.43 
MICROSOFT REDMOND CAMPUS CAFETERIA, REDMOND, WA; NEW ALL-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION
The Microsoft Redmond Campus serves over 12,000 meals a day in 77,000 square feet of 
all-electric kitchens. The project had to overcome barriers such as equipment availability, 
throughput considerations, and station design. Microsoft has noted a positive response 
from the industry in the past few years enabling the transition for them.44
High-Rise Multifamily
BAYVIEW TOWER, SEATTLE, WA
The 100 unit high rise multifamily building was retrofit to be all electric using the Origin 
heat pump water heater system that provides all needed water heating components 
(heat pump, storage tank, valves, controls, etc..) on one skid to maximize ease of 
installation. The system is expected to reduce energy use by 59%. 45
ELIZABETH JAMES HOUSE, SEATTLE, WA
Elizabeth James House is a four story, 60 unit low income senior apartment building built 
in 1968. This project had a central plan of four ECO2 heat pumps, with three existing 120 
gallon tanks in a series swing configuration. In addition, the system kept the three electric 
water heaters, and a 175 gallon swing tank was installed.29
Recommendations from Interviewees
As part of the interview process for previous work with the City of Sacramento, Rincon 
asked contractors what recommendations they have for the City or utility provider for 
reducing barriers to electrification in the City. While some of these recommendations may 
be specific to the City of Sacramento, many of these recommendations hold for the City 
41 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
42 Business Wire article, accessed at: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220420005918/en/The-First-
Anticipated-Net-Zero-Hotel-and-First-Passive-House-Certified-Hotel-in-the-US-Slated-to-Open-This-Spring
43 HKTDC Market Research, accessed at: https://research.hktdc.com/en/article/MzA3OTE4MTUw
44 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
45 https://www.redwoodenergy.net/publications/redwood-energys-pocket-guide-to-all-electric-commercial-retrofits
54 of 599

--- page 55 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
36
of San Mateo, to account for the viewpoint of contractors and building developers 
dealing with complex commercial building stock. These recommendations included:
•
Alleviate the burden on the customer for upgrading older, last-mile equipment 
such as transformers and services. Having to upgrade this equipment can kill a 
project. SMUD (in San Mateo, PG&E) could identify transformers that are 
already at peak capacity and deal with them pro-actively, or identify grant 
funds to help cover these costs.
•
More workforce training and work with the unions is needed to prepare the 
workforce for electrification work.
•
Encourage projects to build-in more hot water storage to help avoid an 
increased peak electrical load.
•
Develop policy to avoid over-estimation of panel needs, which can trigger 
larger-scale electrical upgrades that are prohibitively expensive. Default 
calculations on equipment tend to overestimate peak load and using real 
data from a building instead can help avoid ballooning expenses.
•
Adjusted rate structures could be an incentive for early electrification 
adopters, since this would help guarantee on-bill savings in many cases. Peak 
demand for commercial customers currently sets their billing rate. Many 
customers are on the edge of hitting their peak demand charge and 
electrification would bump them into a higher tier, creating a disincentive to 
electrify. A specific commercial electrification rate with a discount would help 
remove this barrier. This suggestion item would require coordination with PCE. 
•
Expedited permits could create an incentive for commercial customers to 
electrify, especially on smaller jobs. Ideally, the permit could be filled out online 
over-the-counter with a simple set of questions with a permit turn-around rate 
of 24 hours.
•
A building performance standards approach could work well for commercial 
buildings. San Francisco’s program is recommended as a model. San 
Francisco’s program is self-reporting but is validated. Buildings over 10,000 
square feet are required to complete a level 1 audit; buildings over 50,000 
square feet are required to complete a level 2 audit, and reporting 
requirement is every five years. Setting up the reporting system online with 
simple report requirements and very low rigor at the start would help get the 
most buildings into the system.
•
Releasing a building performance standards program under something other 
than an electrification strategy may be the best tactic. This approach could 
appear more feasible, and avoid misunderstandings on potential for 
mandatory upgrades.
Current Incentives
Current electrification programs and rebates are available for commercial and multi-
family buildings in the City of San Mateo from PCE, TECH, and BayREN are summarized in 
Table 88. All residential appliance incentives described in Table 66 should also apply to 
55 of 599

--- page 56 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
37
multifamily residents if the applicant for rebates is also the owner of the apartment, in the 
case of PCE Incentives.46
Table 88 Current Incentives and Programs for Commercial Buildings (as of August 2023) 
Description
Amount/Type
Details
Commercial Building Incentives
Data Connect (PCE)
Technical assistance 
Access or share PCE Data Connect 
platform to analyze facility energy 
data, access data to help calculate 
energy carbon footprint. Could be 
useful for future building performance 
standard work.
Technical Design Assistance (PCE) 
Technical Assistance
Free project assistance for all-electric 
buildings with TRC via 
AllElectricDesign.org
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) 
Commercial Buildings Tax Credit
Tax Credit
Tax credit for energy efficiency based 
on square footage (Tax Credit 179D)
Multifamily Building Incentives
TECH Heat Pump HVAC Systems 
Serving Multiple Apartments
$1,000/unit
HP HVAC equipment serving multiple 
apartments
TECH Common area HPWH rebate
$1,800/ system
Split or packaged rooftop/ 
multi/position heat pump (ducted or 
ductless) 
TECH Electrical panel upgrade
$1,400/ apartment 
receiving electrical 
upgrade
Undersized apartment electrical 
infrastructure is upgraded as part of an 
apartment’s HPWH or HP HVAC 
Installation 
BayREN Common Area HVAC 
$1,000/equipment
Common area heat pump HVAC
BayREN Laundry/Common Area 
Heat Pump Water Heater
$1,000/equipment
Common area laundry or heat pump 
water heater
BayREN Heat Pump Pool Heater
$1,500/pool
BayREN Subpanel Upgrade
$1,000/apt served
BayREN Central/common area 
panel upgrade
$5,000/property
Source : https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/commercial-programs/, 
https://techcleanca.com/incentives/multifamily-information/, https://www.bayren.org/multifamily-property-
owners/building-improvements
On-Bill Costs – analysis pending
On-bill costs are another important piece of the overall economics of electrification. This 
data is currently being analyzed by PCE and will be included here once completed. Initial 
46 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Peninsula-Clean-Energy-Appliance-Rebates-
Terms-Conditions_10.01.22.pdf
56 of 599

--- page 57 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
38
data points to the ability for building electrification to be at cost parity or cost savings 
with mixed fuel homes but is highly dependent on the electricity rate structure for the 
building. 
57 of 599

--- page 58 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

58 of 599


--- page 59 ---
From: Diane Bailey

Sent: Friday, August 4, 2023 6:21 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support for City of San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy and Electrify San Mateo -

Please Move Ahead Expeditiously with this framework

Dear Commissioners, Staff, and Consultants,

Thank you for continuing progress on San Mateo's Building Electrification strategy. This is a key effort to
address the Climate Crisis. Your leadership and hardwork are essential not only to maintaining San Mateo's
position as a top leader on climate policy, but more importantly to safeguard residents from the impacts of
climate that we are already feeling.

We are lucky here on the peninsula, where our summer has been so mild, as millions across the globe swelter
in devastating extreme heat. If there's any question about whether we will face more extreme heat here,
consider these recent articles:

» Axios reports that: Record-setting heat and hazardous air have already consumed much of the U.S. this

summer, and the worst may be yet to come.
» USA Today explains how climate change has contributed to the extreme heat this summer: "...At this point,

there aren’t any unprecedentedly extreme heat events on Earth that haven't been exacerbated by climate
change.”

e Vox explains that: "July 4 was the hottest day on Earth since record-keeping began more than 40 years ago <i
and extreme heat is likely to worsen due to climate change.

| appreciate that the report by Rincon articulates the many benefits of electrifying San Mateo homes and buildings,
including bringing air conditioning (with electric heat pumps) to the many homes that currently lack it. These policies can
also help create high quality job opportunities in San Mateo.

My gratitude to everyone who contributed to this report. Please act expeditiously to move electrification forward in San
Mateo, as we collectively feel the heat of climate change.

Sincerely,
Diane Bailey

59 of 599


--- page 60 ---
From: Robert Whiteh air Aas

Sent: Monday, August 7, 2023 7:16 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: Michelle Hudson; Andrea Chow; Christina Horrisberger

Subject: August 9 meeting, agenda item 2, Sustainable Buildings Strategy — Project Update

Dear Chair Rowinski and Commissioners

| thank the City of San Mateo for releasing the decarbonization study, in response to the City Council's
approved objective for FY 23-24: “Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and
eliminate natural gas use by 2030.”

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by
the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord,
and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate
crisis: Electrify Everything!

It is important to say that Rincon Consultants found that whole home electrification could be less
expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once rebates are
included,

Rincon Consultants found that "(Electrification) Quotes for some equipment, such as HVAC units, could
vary by as much as $15,000 for the same project.” Moving forward let's work together to standardize
installations, to keep a lid on costs.

We are aware that there are strong forces in the United States working to kill the Inflation Reduction Act.
Collaborating with others, SMCAT will do everything it can to assure that the IRA continues and thrives.

We respectfully request that the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission continue the strong City
Council Objective to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings.

Thank you

Robert Whitehair
Co Leader, San Mateo Climate Action Team

60 of 599


--- page 61 ---
From: Marty Jordan

Sent: Monday, August 7, 2023 10:44 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: draft report

Thank you for your draft report regarding the decarbonization and electrification of existing buildings in San Mateo and
the elimination of natural gas use by 2030. There will be much push back on this and | encourage you to remain
steadfast in this goal. | don’t need to tell you, but it is one of the most effective steps our city can take to stop the
climate crisis we find ourselves living each and every day. Please ensure that every citizen has access to the many
financial incentives and rebates available to them via county, state and federal programs.

Warm regards,

Marty Jordan

61 of 599


--- page 62 ---
From: Megan Strain

Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 8:04 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment on Decarbonization Report

Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

| ama San Mateo resident and member of the San Mateo Climate Action Team. | thank you for sharing the draft report
from Rincon regarding San Mateo's decarbonization objective set by City Council -- ""Establish policies to decarbonize
and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030." | am so grateful to live in a community that
is committed to sustainability goals like decarbonization.

| find the draft report encouraging, and | hope it will reignite our city's leadership to continue to take action to electrify
buildings. As climate change continues to shape our community, it is critical to take all the steps we can in the next few
years to combat climate change, with an eye for equity to ensure ail citizens are able to make the right decision for their
family and for the climate. With the Inflation Reduction Act rebates, many homeowners will find that electrification is
less expensive than replacing gas appliances, making decarbonization a "low-hanging fruit" for people wishing to do the
right thing for their home and the environment.

Building decarbonization is one of the most direct and immediate steps we can take; and | encourage our city to learn
from this report and continue this action while supporting the financial and practical means to ensure all residents can
take part.

Thank you,

Megan Strain
San Mateo Resident

62 of 599


--- page 63 ---
From: Elaine Salinger Er

Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 10:52 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Electrify San Mateo, Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Building
Strategy

Hello sustainability and infrastructure commission members,

| am the leader of SMC Citizens Climate Lobby chapter and we have 200+ members living in the City of San Mateo. |
represent the chapter members’ view. | want to thank the City of San Mateo for releasing the study, in response to
the City Council's approved objective for FY 23-24.

Please support policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by
2030.

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by
the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord,
and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate
crisis: Electrify Everything!

Between tax refunds and rebates included in the IRA, zero interest loans from PCE, and reduced cost of
energy needed to run heat pumps, building electrification is affordable for most people. Please support rapid
decarbonization.

Elaine Salinger, San Mateo Chapter Leader

{& Citizens’ Climate Lobby

63 of 599


--- page 64 ---
From: Bruce Naegel

Sent: Wednesday, August 9, 2023 11:51 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Upcoming vote on Sustainabiltiy

Dear Commissioners:

Thank you for addressing sustainability in San Mateo with your plan to “Establish
policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use
by 2030.”

Urgency is required in implementing a sustainability plan. We do not have much
time. Weather events are increasing in severity. Buildings use large quantities of
methane (fossil gas)

San Mateo is taking the responsibility of developing a plan seriously. Rincon
Associates, which has developed well received climate plans is guiding the effort.

The goal is clear. We need to use the carbon free electricity supplied by Peninsula
Clean Energy to power our buildings.

Fossil (natural) gas was once viewed as a bridge fuel to a carbon free
tomorrow. Since that time, we have learned more about fossil gas. First, using as
fuel for cooking creates Nitrogen oxides. These oxides are harmful to the lungs of
children. In fact, children in homes using natural gas as a cooking fuel had a 42%
higher chance of developing asthma symptoms.

42% increase in asthma symptoms
httos://rmi.org/gas-stoves-health-climate-asthma-risk

Fossil gas leaks and creates problems. Besides the toxic dangers of methane, leaks
can ignite. The worst case of this was the San Brun explosion in 2010 with 8 killed

and 56 injured.

httos://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San Bruno pipeline explosion
1

64 of 599


--- page 65 ---
Whole Home Electrification

If we are going to get to being gas free by 2030, all gas uses need to be converted
to electric appliances. Every year, the selection of electric appliances improves. We
have washers, dryers, dishwashers, hot water heaters, Heat Pump HVAC systems.
We have artificial flames and fireplaces that provide heat and the magic of a flames
in a fireplace (with no burning).

Every year the number of homes that have converted to all electricity grows. San
Mateo's efforts will help to accelerate to the goal of zero carbon by 2030. Thanks
for the effort to get us to where we are now. Thanks in advance for marching to the
2030 zero carbon goal.

Bruce Naegel

Sustainable Silicon Valley

Carbon Free Mountain View
Carbon Free Silicon Valley

Fossil Free Buildings Silicon Valley

65 of 599


--- page 66 ---
From: Gerard Mennino i
Sent: Wednesday, August 9, ‘40 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Comments on Rincon electrification report

DearS & |commission members,

Thanks for all you do for San Mateo. Ahead of your review of the Rincon Consulatants draft report on building
electrification, and based on the draft report, | have a few observations to share.

1. Above all is, this is a critical issue - global warming is clearly the worst threat that humanity has faced in millenia, but
also, San Mateo city has emerged as a leader in municipal climate change action, and this report and its implementation
has enormous potential to make a big difference throughout California and beyond. | encourage you to put every effort
into making this process a success - it may be one of the most important contributions to the planet that you make in
your career, and will definitely be more history-changing than almost anything that almost all the rest of us do!

2. I’m very happy to see a clear statement of the importance of equity. To eventually stop burning methane, everyone
will need to be on board, so both from a fairness and effectiveness point of view, we need to create solutions that can
work for everyone. As much as the effectiveness criteria need to be in line with equity, | hope that the equity criteria will
also be in line with effectiveness. | have seen programs in other jurisdictions that carried out very elaborate and very
expensive whole-home retrofits on a small number of houses, in a way that was more political than effective, so | hope
that any San Mateo programs manage to maximize both effectiveness and equity.

3. The world has a very limited budget of further emissions that can be released. | urge you to focus on maximizing tons
of CO2 avoided, over ‘complete’ solutions. For instance, since water heating accounts for half of all domestic gas usage,
water heaters are replaced more than furnaces and cooktops, and the economics of water heater electrification are the
most compelling, it would make sense to push immediately (i.e. in months, not years) to increase the rate of water
heater electrification on burnout, which is currently estimated at only 1-3%. Every gas water heater that is replaced this
year will still be polluting in 15 years time, so moving fast on the lowest hanging fruit is important. It is important to have
a comprehensive plan to electrify everything, but not everything can be done at once.

4. A second key issue with domestic water heating is that the BAAQMD will meet in late 2024 to determine if their
proposed regulations on water heaters should go into effect in 2027. When these regulations were proposed, many
board members expressed concerns about their feasibility - equity, funding, supply chain, vendor education etc. If the
regulations go ahead, it will be a colossal achievement - turning off half the domestic gas emissions from an area of 7
million people. If San Mateo city can move quickly on encouraging voluntary electrification of water heaters at scale, it
will be an important proof that the rest of the Bay Area can implement these changes. Again, it will allow San Mateo
innovation to have a huge effect, far beyond its borders.

Thank you for all the work you do, and | wish you every success in greening San Mateo.

-Gerard Manning.

66 of 599


--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7732
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Interim City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 09, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend the adoption of the Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update to City Council.
BACKGROUND:
In 2015, the City of San Mateo adopted the City's first Climate Action Plan (CAP) and in April 2020, the City adopted an 
updated CAP. The City’s CAP establishes a strategic pathway to reduce community-wide greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs).  
The CAP assumed future demographics based on the 2030 General Plan. Through the 2040 General Plan update process, 
the General Plan is currently being updated and will use updated demographic data that differ from the assumptions in the 
2030 General Plan. Additionally, the CAP was developed to meet a series of criteria to serve as a qualified GHG reduction 
strategy based on the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), which allows new development projects that are 
consistent with the CAP to streamline their environmental review of GHG-related impacts. Although the CAP is typically on 
an approximately 5-year update cycle and was  updated and adopted in 2020, the City’s 2040 General Plan Update 
necessitates a partial and focused technical update to the CAP so that the CAP will maintain consistency with the 2040 
General Plan when adopted and can continue to serve as a qualified GHG reduction strategy.
CAP 2023 Technical Update
The CAP 2023 Technical Update is needed to ensure the CAP is aligned and consistent with the 2040 General Plan update. 
In February 2023, the City Council approved Agreement Amendment No. 4 to amend the scope of work with PlaceWorks 
Inc. to perform this partial and focused update. PlaceWorks developed the City’s CAPs in 2015 and 2020 and is the same 
consultant firm leading the 2040 General Plan update.
The updated 2040 General Plan will use different demographic data that has greater assumptions for growth than the 
2030 General Plan. Demographic data is critical to GHG forecasting and calculations because it influences buildout 
assumptions related to population, jobs, households, vehicle miles travelled, and more. The CAP 2023 Technical Update 
focuses on aligning the future demographic assumptions used in the 2040 General Plan.
The project team also used this CAP 2023 Technical Update opportunity to align with new state laws and best practices. In 
September 2022, the Governor signed AB 1279 into law, codifying the State’s commitment to be carbon neutral by 2045. 
As part of this commitment, AB 1279 directs a minimum statewide reduction of GHGs to at least 85% below 1990 levels by 
2045. The CAP, as currently adopted, includes per-capita GHG reduction targets for 2030 and 2050. The 2022 California Air 
Resources Board (CARB) Scoping Plan no longer recommends the use of per-capita targets for local jurisdictions. 
The City is committed to developing a GHG emissions inventory for 2025 to track the City’s progress toward the 2030 
67 of 599

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
reduction target and to the development and implementation of the City’s Sustainable Buildings Strategy to decarbonize 
existing buildings. A timeline for a comprehensive CAP update will be developed after the analysis of the 2025 GHG 
inventory and as implementation of the CAP measures progresses.
CAP 2023 Technical Update – Highlights
The Technical Update focused on updating quantitative data points, including providing a 2019 GHG inventory and updates 
to the forecast to align with the draft 2040 General Plan. The City opted for a 2019 GHG inventory as opposed to a 2020 
GHG inventory so that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and shelter-in-place orders would not skew the data. The 
2019 GHG inventory shows that the City reduced emissions 22% below the 2005 baseline, demonstrating that the City 
continues to exceed the 2020 goal to reduce emissions 15% below the 2005 baseline. 
The 2023 Technical Update establishes community-wide GHG emissions reduction targets for 2030 and 2045. In alignment 
with State targets, the 2023 Technical Update commits to reduce GHG emissions 40% below 1990 levels (49% below 2005 
levels) equal to 339,880 MTCO2e (metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent) by 2030 and 85% below 1990 levels (87% 
below 2005 levels) equal to 84,970 MTCO2e by 2045.
The project team assessed additional reductions from new state, regional, and local actions. Each GHG strategy was re-
quantified to match and build from current conditions. The City’s overall commitment to GHG reduction remains the same 
and there were no substantial changes to GHG reduction strategies. There was one minor change made to one of the 
existing CAP strategy Clean Fuels 4. This strategy initially focused on reducing emissions by switching to clean fuels for 
light- and medium-duty vehicles; the 2023 Technical Update takes heavy-duty vehicles into account. The project team 
updated performance assumptions of the measures to match current conditions and State and regional trends. Where 
appropriate, performance assumptions are accelerated and reflective of a bolder commitment and greater reduction. The 
project team updated every table associated with each measure to reflect the updated milestone years (2030, 2040 and 
2045). Attachment 2, the CAP 2023 Technical Update document with redlines, shows all the edits that were made to the 
CAP. Attachment 3 summarizes the revisions made to all the tables. 
The project team now seeks the Commission’s review of the CAP 2023 Technical Update and recommendation to City 
Council for adoption. The CAP represents a compilation of the analysis and strategies previously reviewed and supported 
by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in 2020, with partial and technical updates performed this year for 
General Plan consistency. Once approved by this Commission, the CAP 2023 Technical Update will be included for City 
Council consideration as part of the General Plan adoption in 2024. Additionally, the CAP revisions are being evaluated as 
part of the General Plan EIR.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update was appropriated in February 2023 and had no impact on the 
City’s General Fund. The project funding was appropriated from the available fund balance in the Advance Planning Fund 
(Fund 225) to the General Plan Update project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) An environmental review of 
the Climate Action Plan document is being conducted in conjunction with the 2040 General Plan Environmental Impact 
Report.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update - clean
Att 2 - Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update - redlines
Att 3 - Climate Action Plan tables - redlines
68 of 599

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
69 of 599

--- page 70 ---


--- page 71 ---
71 of 599


--- page 72 ---
City of

Ss. %
ee i)
Cron Sa n + ateo

Climate Action Plan

CLIMATE ACTION PLAN

Adopted by the San Mateo City Council on April 6, 2020 by Resolution 31(2020)

Technical Update — July 2023, Public Review Draft

Prepared for the City of San Mateo by:

PlaceWorks in collaboration with DNV GL



--- page 73 ---
73 of 599


--- page 74 ---
City of

o %
As J
CArmoe San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (2020)

City of San Mateo

City Council

Mayor Joe Goethals
Deputy Mayor Eric Rodriguez
Council Member Rick Bonilla

Council Member Amourence Lee
Council Member Diane Papan

Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission

Rafael Reyes, Chair
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Greg St. Clair
Jackie Nufiez

Planning Commission

Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams

City Staff

Drew Corbett, City Manager
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner
Alice Chen, Plan Check Supervisor
Roxanne Murray, Solid Waste and
Recycling Program Coordinator
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
David Fink, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney



--- page 75 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (2023)

City of San Mateo

City Council Sustainability and Infrastructure
Commission
Mayor Amourence Lee
Deputy Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash Susan Rowinski, Chair
Council Member Adam Loraine Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Council Member Rob Newsom Jr. Clifford Robbins
Council Member Rich Hedges Sigalle Michael

Pam Rittelmeyer

| City of San Mateo July 2023

75 of 599


--- page 76 ---
City of

S y
As J
CArmoe San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

TABLE OF CONTENTS
EX@CUTIVE SUIMIMALY....ssseecsseecsssecsescsssesssecsseccusccsueccssecsueccsscesueesssccsuesssecsusecssecsuscsssecsuesssseesucesssessusecssecsusesssessuessseesuessuessutecsueesiceeneeesteees 1
Purpose of the Clinvate Action PlAM sisccsccsscsscssscsscninssnecearenarcacenacensscestecatonrenacnarenianacenatenneenteatennnacnatemeaarmneeneansenatene 1
See oe fe 3
TREY. Vin tO RDN os scsscsscozssnascasernscsansonscvssszessxavsvaveusscnassceosaceanseseoasensnsssecussceanceascasstasstosaaaniassenascacausne Lan ccancacnaas mSRaONRLRRR ERNE Td
SPUN IIE in ss tesss inhi a Sik inst ddd lei olelbaeannera ne Ssdh le Ginnno i hahe Se Shalt hih Sia Sik bt il lie heh oe Sd la 14
Climate Change Science .........eessssssssesseecseeesseessneessecsnecsnscesneesseessusesusecsuecsnsessueesnsessueesusessueesusessueesuseenueesnssesueesneesaueesueesnueesneesnueenneees 15
Leal CONOR acccsnscnscasnnarmnnanoncansen eateaaen one ERE ERR ERROR ORR ERROR 24
BS sag RAMI ten nnene nd nern inane Sleep aie ls itd lh eb lt ln i 27
Climate Action Planning Process ......c.ssessssssssessesssessnecssessesssssnesssecsuscsecsecsuecsuecsuecssesessuessuecsucesecsnessuscsnecsuecneceneceueesuecstecseeeneesees 30
Chapter 2 Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Forecasts, and Reduction Target.......0..........ccccssssscssssesessseeessneecssneeeees 35
BaCkQrOUN.......ssssccsssssssnesssssescsnscesnscesssscesnscessuscessscessuscesnseessusessnscessuscesuscessussesuseessusessuseesnusessnseessueessnscesnusessuscesnnecesuscesnuecesneeesnneessneeees 35
Baseline Greenhouse Gas EMmissiony WWEHONY ccciccsnccninenanancnunnnnannnnanunnemnanneenemem 35
SRST TRS MWS SITS FAT se sis senses ennssln sd ened old oi led lab ol a ai nb oli 43
GHG Emissions Reduction Targets.......ssscssssssssecssssssessnessnesssusesssecsuecsneessueesnesssueesuessueesueessuecsneessueesneesnucesnesssueesneesnueesneesnneeseeees 46
Chapter 3 Strategies to Achieve the Targets ......0.........ccssssssssssssesssseeesssecsssesessseessueesuecssueessueesnseessuseessnneesnseesneeessneesnseessereess 49
Revised and New GHG Reduction Measures ..........sssssessssseccsssecsssssecssssecsssneesssusecsssusecessnsecsssnecsssnsecsssnecssnnsecssnnsesssnnecssaneess 58
UTA RaMAT EAN T RNIN CAEN cies acts ttesassattssnantnsniss nt cnendibinnnralstbonnosdshinensaitdonnvsddbnenenstbnannsitinanssitinensstthannrsitinenssibenneadihaenratibennone 98
Implementing the Climate Action Plan... ecsseesssssessssssesssssseecsssssessssssessssssessssueecsssusessssssessssueeesssuecssssnsessssssessssneesssnneesssaseess 98
De a, i 99
| nee 100
| 106
Appendix 1: Technical Appendix: Methods and Assumptions .....00...........ccccecsseesseesseessseesneessecesseessscenseessueesneeesueesneeesees |
Apperidix.2: CAP Measure Key Metricsi..........cciscsssssssssssssosssosssssoesssanssessenscosssnsessessosssnanseessanssosssvessstssesssuanesessanssosssuesseensorssease 2-1
Appendix 3: CAP Consistency Checklist... cccssssssssssseessseessneecsnseessneessnseessneessnseessueessuscessuseesusecssneesuseessneeesnseessueeesneeesseess 3-1

Appendix 4: Summary of Community Workshop... cessesssssssesesseessseecsseesseccssecsseccnscesucesssecsueccusecsuecsuessucesueennueesueensees 4-1



--- page 77 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

TABLES

Table ES-1: Reductions from Existing and Planned Accomplishments

Table ES-2: Reductions by Measure

Table 1:
Table 2:
Table 3:
Table 4:
Table 5:
Table 6:
Table 7:
Table 8:
Table 9:
Table 10:
Table 11:
Table 12:
Table 13:
Table 14:

Table 1-1:
Table 2-1:

California Climate Change Impacts

San Mateo Population (2005 — 2019)

San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions

San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide Emissions

San Mateo 2005 and 2019 Community Emissions (Per-Capita)

San Mateo 2019, 2030, 2040, and 2045 Growth Indicators

San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals
San Mateo Emissions with CAP Implementation (2030 — 2045)
Reductions from CAP Measures (2030 — 2045)

San Mateo Community-Wide GHG Emissions Reductions from State Programs
Emissions Reductions from Local and Regional Programs

Emissions with Existing and Planned Efforts

GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2030-2045 (MTCOze)
CAP Implementation Work Plan

Emissions Coefficients for CAP Measures

CAP Measure Key Metrics

[z=] City of San Mateo

77 of 599

19
39
40
AN
43
43
45
49
50
53
57
57
95

102

1-2

22

July 2023


--- page 78 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

FIGURES
Figure ES-1:CAP Timeline 3
Figure ES-2: GHG Inventory Sectors 4
Figure ES-3:2019 GHG Emissions 5
Figure 1: | The Greenhouse Effect 16
Figure 2: _— Potential Global Temperature Increases 18
Figure 3: —_ Historic and Projected Snowpack Levels Impacting San Mateo’s Water Supply 20
Figure 4: Sea Level Rise in San Mateo (2100) 22
Figure 5: San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCO2e) 40
Figure 6: San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCOze) 42
Figure 7: CAP Co-Benefits 60
Figure 8: San Mateo GHG Emissions with Reduction Measures, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e) 96

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | iti |

78 of 599


--- page 79 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

Sidewalk art from the City’s 2014 Downtown Cleanup.

Photo by City of San Mateo

| iv | City of San Mateo July 2023

79 of 599


--- page 80 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

List of Abbreviations

AB
ABAG
BAAQMD
BAU
CALGreen
CAP
CARB
C/CAG
CEC
CEQA
CO2

EIR
EMFAC
GHG

IIs

kW

kWh
MPO
MTC
MTCOze
OPR
PCE

July 2023

Assembly Bill

Association of Bay Area Governments
Bay Area Air Quality Management District
business-as-usual

California Green Building Standards
Climate Action Plan

California Air Resources Board
City/County Association of San Mateo County
California Energy Commission

California Environmental Quality Act
carbon dioxide

environmental impact report

CARB Emission Factor

greenhouse gas

Interstate

kilowatt

kilowatt-hour

metropolitan planning organization
Metropolitan Transportation Commission
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
Office of Planning and Research

Peninsula Clean Energy

Climate Action Plan | os |

80 of 599


--- page 81 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

PG&E Pacific Gas and Electric Company
RICAPS Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite
RPS Renewables Portfolio Standard

SB Senate Bill

SCS sustainable communities strategy

SR- State Route

TDM Transportation Demand Management
TMA transportation management agency
TNC Transportation network company
TOD transit-oriented development

USEPA US Environmental Protection Agency
VMT vehicle miles traveled

f ovi City of San Mateo July 2023

81 of 599


--- page 82 ---
, __ City of

San Mateo

e >
ALroe

Climate Action Plan

Executive Summary

PURPOSE OF THE CLIMATE ACTION PLAN

This Climate Action Plan (CAP) is San Mateo’s comprehensive strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions. It demonstrates the leadership of community members and the City on sustainability and GHG
reduction. San Mateo’s General Plan directs the preparation, ongoing implementation and update of the CAP,
providing the framework for San Mateo to reduce its community-wide GHG emissions in a manner consistent
with state reduction targets and goals for 2030 and 2045. The CAP is prepared consistent with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines for Plans for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (California
Code of Regulations Section 15183.5). This allows the CAP to support and possibly streamline environmental
review of GHG emissions related to future development projects within the city.

This CAP is a direct update to the 2015 CAP. The CAP analyzes San Mateo’s progress to date in meeting its GHG
reduction targets and contains new information to achieve more significant and longer-term GHG reductions. It
also presents a work plan and monitoring program for the City to track progress over time and maintain the
status of the CAP as a qualified GHG reduction strategy for the purposes of CEQA streamlining. Since the City’s
adoption of the CAP in 2020, the State of California has accelerated its actions and commitments to reduce
statewide GHG emissions. In addition to State targets, the CAP and General Plan must follow regional air district
guidance and thresholds to serve as the City's qualified GHG reduction strategy. In 2022, the Bay Area Air Quality
Management District (BAAQMD) approved new thresholds of significance to determine whether a proposed
project, including general plans and CAPs, will have a significant impact on climate change. In response to these
changes, the City completed this technical update to the 2020 CAP so that it is consistent with the Strive San



--- page 83 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Mateo General Plan 2040 and continues to serve as the City’s qualified GHG reduction strategy, as it has since
2015.

Local Leadership

San Mateo has an extensive history of action on GHG reduction and other environmental sustainability actions.
This CAP allows community members, City staff and officials, and other stakeholders to understand San Mateo’s
existing planning efforts and strategies to achieve its GHG reduction goals. It builds on several earlier efforts,
including the 2007 Sustainable Initiatives Plan, the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program, the Climate
Action Plan for Operations and Facilities, the 2015 CAP, and many other local accomplishments to date.

Planning Process

The City prepared the CAP as a collaborative effort between City staff, City officials, members of the public, and
agency partners. San Mateo’s existing GHG accomplishments Is a core foundation of the CAP. From 2005 to 2019,
San Mateo achieved a 22 percent decrease in GHG emissions. Programs such as Peninsula Clean Energy,
composting and other waste reduction efforts, increased adoption of electric and more fuel-efficient vehicles,
and improved energy efficiency and water conservation have all helped to achieve this reduction and will
continue to reduce GHG emissions far into the future. By 2045, these local efforts are expected to reduce San
Mateo’s GHG emission levels over 25 percent below where they would be without these actions.

Starting with these existing efforts, City staff and community members identified opportunities for new and
expanded GHG reduction programs in San Mateo, touching on all major sources of GHG emissions in the
community and leveraging new opportunities for GHG reductions that were not available when the City was
preparing the 2015 CAP. Through conversations with other City staff members, a public open house meeting,
and discussions with the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, the project team revised this list to
produce a final list of GHG reduction measures and the volume of reductions they enable. The CAP allows San
Mateo to meet and, in some instances, exceed the state-recommended targets for local communities. This CAP
also includes an implementation and monitoring work plan for City staff to put these measures into effect and
to track their effectiveness.

Figure ES-1 shows the timeline for the 2020 CAP.

[2 | City of San Mateo July 2023

83 of 599


--- page 84 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Figure ES-1:CAP Timeline

Autumn Winter = Spring Summer Autumn Winter
2018 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019

¢ Project *Complete Begin * Finalize *Draft 2020 +Conduct *Adopt *CAP 2023
kick-off inventory developin GHG CAP public 2020 CAP Technical
*Begin and g GHG reduction hearings update
inventory forecast reduction measures and
work *Collect measures + Quantify review
data on GHG
existing reduction
and measures
planned
actions
KEY OUTCOMES OF THE CAP

The CAP includes two major sets of technical analyses. The first is an inventory of San Mateo’s recent GHG
emissions and a forecast of how these emissions may change in the future. The second is a set of calculations
(known as quantification) showing how the CAP measures, as well as existing and planned efforts, can reduce
GHG emissions consistent with the City’s targets.

Community GHG Inventories

GHG inventories are assessments of San Mateo’s GHG emissions from a variety of sources over the course of a
calendar year. San Mateo has several previous GHG inventories, including ones for the calendar years 2005, 2010,
2015, and 2017. As part of the 2023 technical update to the CAP, the project team prepared a fifth inventory, for
the calendar year 2019. The project team chose to prepare a 2019 GHG inventory as opposed to a 2020 GHG
inventory so that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and shelter-in-place orders would not skew the data.
The project team made limited updates to the previous year inventories to use the same methods and data
sources as the 2019 inventory, informed by State guidance and best practices. This ensures that all five inventories
are consistent and provide an accurate assessment of how San Mateo’s GHG emissions have changed over time.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

84 of 599


--- page 85 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

San Mateo’s GHG emissions are caused by activities that take place within the city limits, even if the emissions
are physically emitted elsewhere. For example, GHG emissions caused by the decomposition of trash thrown
away in San Mateo are counted in these inventories, even though the decomposition (and resulting emission of
GHGs) occurs in a landfill that is not located in San Mateo. All measurements of GHG emissions are in the common
unit of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCOze), which allows for the different strengths of various
GHGs to be expressed in a single unit.

Figure ES-2 shows the 10 sources (sectors) of GHG emissions included in the inventories in this CAP.

Figure ES-2: GHG Inventory Sectors

* Informational item, not included in the total of San Mateo’s emissions.

In 2005, San Mateo’s GHG emissions totaled 666,410 MTCOze. These emissions fell to 651,450 MTCOze in 2010,
592,010 MTCOze in 2015, 533,730 MTCOze in 2017, and 520,410 MTCOze in 2019, a decline of 2 percent, 11
percent, 20 percent, and 22 percent relative to 2005 levels respectively. In all years, the on-road transportation
sector is the largest source of emissions, followed by emissions from the two built environment sectors, off-road
equipment, solid waste generation, and point sources. Landfill, rail, and water and wastewater emissions were

[= | City of San Mateo July 2023

85 of 599


--- page 86 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

consistently the smallest sources. This CAP uses 2019 as the current year GHG inventory to present normal
conditions, as the protocols suggest. Use of data from 2020 would represent an anomalous year as several sectors
were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related changes to day-to-day activities resulting from
precautions and restrictions. Figure ES-3 shows emissions by sector for 2019.

Figure ES-3: 2019 GHG Emissions

Commercial/ industrial
built environment:

0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000

MTCO,e

* Point sources are included as an informational item and are not counted towards the total GHG emissions for the City.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan [ = |

86 of 599


--- page 87 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Forecast

The forecast is a projection of future GHG emissions, showing how these emissions would change over time if
no action is taken at the federal, State, or local level to reduce them. In the forecast, changes in emissions are
caused by changes in population. As San Mateo is expected to continue to grow through 2045, the forecast
projects an increase in emissions. The CAP projects emissions to grow to 605,240 MTCOze by 2030, 696,810
MTCOze by 2040, and 750,400 MTCOze by 2045 if no action is taken, a total increase of 44 percent from 2019
levels.

Targets

The CAP sets substantial GHG reduction goals for San Mateo, consistent with the City’s role as a sustainability
leader. The CAP relies on the recommended GHG reduction goals in the State’s Climate Change Scoping Plan to
set targets for GHG reductions and support a path to achieving carbon neutrality by 2045, adapted to ensure
that they are appropriate for San Mateo and meet the CEQA requirements for community-wide plans as well as
individual development projects. These targets are:

e 2030: Reduce emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels (49 percent below baseline 2005 levels), equal
to 339,880 MTCOze.
e 2045: Reduce emissions to 85 percent below 1990 levels (87 percent below baseline 2005 levels), equal
to 84,970 MTCOze.
Existing and Planned Accomplishments

The forecast represents a “worst case” scenario if no action is taken to reduce GHG emissions. However, San
Mateo, along with regional and State agencies, have already taken actions to reduce GHG emissions below their
2019 limit and to close the gap to the City’s GHG reduction targets. The CAP identifies the GHG reductions from
these existing and planned accomplishments. Table ES-1 shows the reductions from these accomplishments and
San Mateo’s projected future emissions affect taking these accomplishments into account.

| 6 City of San Mateo July 2023

87 of 599


--- page 88 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Table ES-1: Reductions from Existing and Planned Accomplishments

Forecasted Emissions 605,420 MTCOze 696,810 MTCOze 750,400 MTCOze

Reductions from State existing and planned

; -72,900 MTCOze =-147,970 MTCOze = - 196,140 MTCOze
accomplishments

Reductions from local and regional existing

. -23,980 MTCO2ze -18,360 MTCO2ze -4,950 MTCOze
and planned accomplishments

Suse elie IM ola ye fella [2 telat, 508,380 MTCOxe ~=—«-530,510 MTCO,e ~—- 549,320 MTCOve
accomplishments

Reduction Measures

This CAP builds on the GHG reduction measures in the 2015 CAP, as well as the existing and planned
accomplishments, to provide an updated suite of GHG reduction measures that meet the City’s targets. These
measures are informed by several sources, including discussions with City staff, feedback from public
engagement efforts, and direction from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. This CAP contains 29
GHG reduction measures, all of which also provide additional community benefits such as financial savings and
improvements to public health. Table ES-2 shows these measures and the GHG reductions they allow.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

88 of 599


--- page 89 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Table ES-2: Reductions by Measure

BE 1: All-electric new construction
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy

RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing
residences

RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing
nonresidential buildings

EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits

EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits

EE 3: Residential tree planting

ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings

CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure

CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach

CF 3: Clean city fleet

CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions

ST 1: Bicycle mode share

ST 2: Pedestrian mode share

ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility

ST 4: Public transit service

ST 5: Commuter programs

ST 6: Transportation Demand Management

ST 7: Transit-oriented development

[a] City of San Mateo

=| 0740)
= 102,210
-160

-10

-60

-6,160
-3,800
Less than -10

-38,450

-184,610

=170

-160

=20

-1,020
-8,860

Less than -10

-47,250
-221,260
0

-6,790
-13,380
0

Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)

=e
-130
-24,420
-4,910
-130
-4,210
-80
-110

“30
-200
-49,390
-8,030
-200

- 16,920
“170
-120

-40
=210
-69,780
=12,360
=210
-26,360
-180
-130

Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)

-3,610

Less than -10
-2,010
-10,200

-5,660
“10
-1,950
-18,920

89 of 599

-6,910
-160
-13,410
“25,100

July 2023


--- page 90 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

SW 1: Composting program -1,030 =1,7 10 -1,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service -6,070 -7,/30 -8, 820
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction -2,080 -4,050 -5,590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings aw Ae) -300 -360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping Less than -10 -10 0
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction Less than -10 -10 -20
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment -3,660 -7,130 -9 890
Total -196,360 -367,960 -468,780

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

When the CAP is fully implemented, it is projected to reduce GHG emissions to meet or exceed San Mateo’s
reduction targets:

e Projected 2030 emissions with the CAP are 311,990 MTCOze, below the reduction target of 339,880
MTCO>ze.

e Projected 2045 emissions with the CAP are 80,550 MTCOze, below the City’s reduction target of 84,970
MTCOze

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 9 |

90 of 599


--- page 91 ---
Successfully achieving these GHG reductions depends on effective implementation of the CAP. The CAP includes
a work plan to help identify the lead City department(s), timeframe, and estimated staff time for each of the GHG
reduction measures, which will help prioritize the measures and identify a work program. City staff will monitor
implementation of the CAP, report annually on CAP implementation, and will revise the work program as needed
to ensure the best use of City and community resources. This approach will help ensure that San Mateo stays on
track to meet or exceed its GHG reduction targets and will make it easier to update the CAP in future years, as
necessary.

4:37 PM

‘02,
nsumption usage for 09/' f

2012

Hourly co!

New and emerging technologies, such as systems that track real-time energy use and suggest ways to improve energy efficiency,
can help San Mateo continue to reduce its GHG emissions.

Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (22290)

City of San Mateo July 2023

91 of 599


--- page 92 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Addressing climate change will help provide numerous benefits to San Mateo community residents, including supporting the
conservation of San Mateo’s outdoor resources.

Photo by City of San Mateo

July 2023 Climate Action Plan Le)

92 of 599


--- page 93 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This page has no content.

Le] City of San Mateo July 2023

93 of 599


--- page 94 ---
This Climate Action Plan (CAP) demonstrates the City of San Mateo’s leadership and
commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

This CAP is a comprehensive strategy to reduce GHG emissions and streamline the
environmental review of GHG emissions of future development projects in the City
of San Mateo, consistent with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Guidelines Section 15183.5(b). The CAP identifies a strategy, reduction measures,
and implementation actions the City will use to achieve targets consistent with State
recommendations of 85 percent below 1990 emissions levels by 2045.

Introduction

GHG Reduction
Targets

This CAP implements a
key goal of the City’s
2040 General Plan by

achieving the City’s
adopted GHG
reduction targets for

2030 and 2045, which

align with State-
recommended GHG
reduction goals.



--- page 95 ---
CHAPTER 1

PURPOSE
Warming of the climate

The City of San Mateo first adopted a CAP in 2015, based on a long-standing MSN ele HP
commitment to environmental stewardship and sustainability. This CAP consolidated [MMEWISIe Sulake
and updated multiple earlier plans, consistent with the City’s 2030 General Plan, [MMI Melmtl tells aVle
including the Sustainable Initiatives Plan (adopted in 2007), Greenhouse Gas changes are

Emissions Reduction Program (adopted in 2010), and the Climate Action Plan for MimuMemetelial lee
Operations and Facilities (adopted in 2008). Regionally, the 2015 CAP drew on the [imetaeclelSacoMailll Taal
City’s involvement with countywide climate action planning efforts. The 2015 CAP [MMMM ates ola eure)
integrated early and ongoing efforts into a single plan that supported the General MRCSScMAE NAC Tiaal Te)

Plan and followed CEQA and air quality guidelines set by the State and BAAQMD. the amounts of snow
and ice have

The 2015 CAP recommended that the document be updated at least once every five Hiielianialsialcremesy-r- im (N"(-)

years to address emerging issues and changing best practices related to GHG has risen, and the
emissions, including new regulations, the availability of new technologies, and concentrations of
changes to development patterns. The City completed an update to the CAP in 2020 (ieige\lalateluty-mer--1smar-Vic
and again in 2023. This CAP preserves the structure and format of the 2015 document increased.

while providing updated information, an expanded set of GHG reduction measures, — IPCC Fifth

a longer-term planning horizon, and alignment with the goals of the Strive San Mateo Assessment Report
General Plan 2040. As a result, this CAP provides a revised framework for addressing
GHG emissions in the community, including an updated consolidated framework for the review and analysis of
GHG emissions from new development activities.

Although the CAP was recently updated and adopted, the City’s update to the Strive San Mateo General Plan
2040 and new State laws necessitate a technical update to the CAP so that the CAP will maintain consistency with
the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 when adopted and can continue to serve as a qualified GHG reduction
strategy.

Since the City’s adoption of the CAP in 2020, the State of California has accelerated its actions and commitments
to reduce statewide GHG emissions with the passage of Assembly Bill (AB) 1279 codifying the State’s commitment
to be carbon neutral by 2045. As part of this commitment to carbon neutrality, AB 1279 directs a minimum
statewide reduction of GHGs to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels by 2045. In addition to State targets, the
CAP and General Plan must follow regional air district guidance and thresholds to serve as the City's qualified
GHG reduction strategy. In April 2022, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) approved new
thresholds of significance to determine whether a proposed project, including general plans and CAPs, will have
a significant impact on climate change. BAAQMD strongly recommends that cities and counties adopt a CAP
that has been prepared consistent with CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) to demonstrate their ability to meet
the State’s GHG reduction goals for 2030 and 2045. In response to these changes, the City completed a technical
update to the 2020 CAP in 2023 so that it is consistent with Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 and continues

| 14 City of San Mateo July 2023

95 of 599


--- page 96 ---
INTRODUCTION

to serve as the City’s qualified GHG reduction strategy, as it has since 2015. The approach for this technical update
is consistent with the BAAQMD guidance available.

The CAP allows City decision makers and the community to understand the sources and magnitude of local GHG
emissions, establish goals to reduce GHG emissions, and prioritize steps to achieve emissions reduction targets.
The CAP updates and expands the City’s goals, measures, and actions to reduce community-wide GHG emissions.
It also revises San Mateo’s implementation program and framework to monitor and report progress.

CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE

To make meaningful and effective decisions regarding GHG emissions reductions, it is important to understand
the scientific and regulatory framework under which this Plan has been developed. This section provides a brief
introduction to the scientific research efforts to understand how climate change occurs and its global
implications, and describes the federal, State, regional, and local regulations that provide guidance and inform
the development of this Plan.

Since the early 1990s, scientific consensus holds that the world’s population is releasing GHGs faster than the
earth's natural systems can absorb them. These gases are released as byproducts of fossil fuel combustion, waste
disposal, industrial processes, land-use changes, and other human activities. While often used interchangeably,
there is a difference between the terms “climate change” and “global warming.” According to the National
Academy of Sciences, climate change refers to any significant, measurable change of climate lasting for an
extended period that can be caused by both natural factors and human activities. Global warming, on the other
hand, is an average increase in the temperature of the atmosphere caused by increased GHG emissions. The use
of the term “climate change” is more accurate because it encompasses all changes to climate, not just
temperature.

Greenhouse Effect

The release of gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CHa), and nitrous oxide (N20), creates a blanket
around the earth that allows light to pass through but traps heat at the surface preventing its escape into space
(Figure 1). These gases function similarly to the glass panes of a greenhouse, which allow sunlight to pass into
the building but trap heat inside, hence the name for this process: the greenhouse effect. While the greenhouse
effect is a naturally occurring process that is vital for the existence of life, human activities have accelerated the
generation of GHGs beyond natural levels. The overabundance of the gases that cause this effect, known as
greenhouse gases, in the atmosphere has led to an unexpected warming of the earth and has the potential to
severely impact the earth's climate system.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 15 |

96 of 599


--- page 97 ---
CHAPTER 1

Climate Change Impacts

It is extremely likely [at

The continued release of GHGs at or above the current rate will continue to increase [IES Rey eolrelel-leli ling
average temperatures around the globe. These increases in global temperatures are (MUIM lela TaM ini lelale2
likely to change our planet's climate in ways that will have significant global, regional, Meee imuleelelaliarTals

and local long-term effects. cause of the observed
warming since the mid-
Figure 1:The Greenhouse Effect 20th century.

— IPCC Fifth Assessment
Report

\

Incoming
Solar
Radiation

Radiated
out to space

Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climatic Data Center. 2008. NOAA Satellite and
Information Service.

Global Climate Change Impacts

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report summarizes the most recent
scientific understanding of global climate change and projects future conditions using the most comprehensive
set of recognized global climate models. The report, released in 2013, considers all impacts human activities have
on global temperature, and states that there is at least a 95 percent probability that “human influence has been
the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20" century.” The Fifth Assessment Report projects
four different temperature scenarios, all of which project 2016-2035 temperatures 0.54 to 1.26°F warmer than
the 1986-2005 average temperature, and potentially over 7.2°F by 2100 under the most aggressive scenario.

| 16 City of San Mateo July 2023

97 of 599


--- page 98 ---
INTRODUCTION

As asserted in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report and other scientific studies, if trends remain unchanged,
continued GHG emissions above current rates will induce further warming changes in the global climate system
and pose even greater risks than those currently witnessed. Figure 2 shows the effects of additional warming on
global temperatures. Given the scientific basis of climate change and expected trends, the challenge remains to
prepare for and mitigate climate change through deliberate global and local action.

Emission Scenarios

The future severity of climate change depends on future GHG emission trends worldwide. If GHG emissions
drop quickly and significantly, scientists project that there will be fewer substantial changes in future climate
conditions. If emissions continue to increase, or only decline slowly and in the more distant future, severe
climate change is more likely. These emission trends depend on political actions, economic conditions,
individual behavior, and many other factors.

The global scientific community commonly uses four scenarios, called Representative Concentration
Pathways (RCPs). In California, the best available data is for two of these scenarios: RCP 4.5 (a medium-low
emissions scenario) and RCP 8.5 (a high emissions scenario). For the sake of a conservative analysis that

identifies the greatest potential range of climate change effects, this section presents results of the RCP 8.5
scenario.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

98 of 599


--- page 99 ---
CHAPTER 1

Figure 2: Potential Global Temperature Increases

ej

2° 3.0

So

So

OV

Ss 25

co

wv

=

a 2.0

wv

fe))

S j

v

eS

© 10 mean historic ESMs/EMICs from ARS
o * —— mean RCP8.5 ESMs/EMICs from ARS
2 ESMs/EMICs range from ARS

E — historic warming (observed)

Pu) — historic warming (CMIP5)

Y057 |, @MMPW §: FE EO were -- GMST historic warming (observed)
m4 16-84% TCRE range

bc (lll 33-67% TCRE range

Za —— median TCRE

0.0

1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Cumulative carbon dioxide emissions since 1876 (GtCO,)

Historic and potential future global temperatures, depending on different levels of future GHG emissions. The red line shows the
expected temperature trend without significant worldwide action to reduce GHG emissions

Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2019
Climate Change Impacts to California and the City of San Mateo

The City of San Mateo, like most communities in California, is expected to experience multiple direct impacts as
a result of climate change, including potential flooding, sea level rise, wildfires, drought, extreme heat, and
negative effects on public health and biodiversity. Research suggests that California will experience hotter and
drier conditions, reductions in winter snow and increases in winter rains, sea level rise, significant changes to the
water cycle, and an increased occurrence of extreme weather events. Such compounded impacts will affect
transportation networks, water supplies, and economic systems throughout the state, with likely ramifications in
the City of San Mateo. To refrain from action is costly and risky; the California Fourth Climate Change Assessment

Ls] City of San Mateo July 2023

99 of 599


--- page 100 ---
INTRODUCTION

estimates that no action to address the potential impacts of climate change will lead to economic losses of “tens
of billions of dollars per year in direct costs” and “expose trillions of dollars of assets to collateral risk.” Table 1
summarizes potential impacts in California due to climate change.

Table 1: California Climate Change Impacts

Climate Impact Historicalarends Future Direction Confidence for
i of Change Future Change

Temperature Warming Warming Very High
Sea Level Rise Rising Rising Very High
Snowpack Declining Declining Very High
Annual Precipitation No Significant Trends = Unknown Low

Intensity of Heavy Precipitation Events No Significant Trends Increasing Medium-High
Frequency of Droughts No Significant Trends Increasing Medium-High
eo and Intensity of Santa Ana No Significant Trends ~= Unknown Low

Marine Layer Clouds ome Downer Unknown Low

Acres Burned by Wildfire Increasing Increasing Medium-High

Source: Bedsworth, Louise, Dan Cayan, Guido Franco, Leah Fisher, Sonya Ziaja. (California Governor's Office of Planning and
Research, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, California Energy Commission, California Public Utilities Commission). 2078.
Statewide Summary Report. California's Fourth Climate Change Assessment. Publication number: SUMCCCA4-20 18-013.

Decreased Supply of Fresh Water

The State’s water supply is already under stress and is anticipated to shrink under even the most conservative
climate change scenario. Warmer average global temperatures cause more precipitation to fall as rain instead of
snow, making the winter snowfall season shorter and accelerating the rate at which the snowpack melts in the
spring. The Sierra snowpack is estimated to decline by at more than two-thirds below its historical average by
2050. Figure 3 shows anticipated changes in snowpack levels above the Hetch Hetchy reservoir watershed, the
source of most of the water used in San Mateo, under a high GHG emissions scenario. With rain and snow events
becoming less predictable and more variable, the rate of flooding could increase beyond what is currently
considered flood-prone, and California's ability to store and transport fresh water for consumption could
decrease. Further, warmer weather will lead to longer growing seasons and increased agricultural demand for

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 19 |

100 of 599


--- page 101 ---
CHAPTER 1

water throughout the state, as well as an increase in the prevalence of ticks, mosquitos, and other vectors for
harmful diseases.

Figure 3: Historic and Projected Snowpack Levels Impacting San Mateo’s Water Supply

60

uv
oO

iS
[o)

N
o

Snow Water Equivalence (Inches)
Ww
[o)

b
oO

)
oO ~~ st - (oe) Ww N (op) oO mM oO ~n b= i a [o.@) wn N (op) ice) ~ (=) ~
wn wn ice) » ad oc (op) (op) (o>) a N N fo) t+ + iia) ice) ice) Ps 1e,@) (op) (op)
oO [op) (op) [op) [op) (op) a (op) oO oO oO oO (a) =] fo) oO oO oO So fo) oO oO
a S| | a a S| S| a N N N N N N N N N N N N N N
Year

G@Snow Water Equivalence (Inches)

Source: Cal-Adapt 2019.
Increased Severity and Frequency of Flood Events

Forecasts indicate more intense rainfall events, generating more frequent or extensive runoff, and flooding that
may result from a changing climate. According to Cal-Adapt, these intense rainfall events historically occurred
an average of 11 times per year and are projected to increase to an average of 13 times per year by 2050 and an
average of 16 times by 2100. Localized flood events may increase in periods of heavy rain. As explained by the
California Fourth Climate Change Assessment, California’s water system is structured and operated to balance
between water storage for dry months and flood protection during rainy seasons. Although climate change is
likely to lead to a drier climate overall, risks from regular, more intense rainfall events can generate more frequent
and/or more severe flooding that upsets this managed balance between storage and protection. Areas along
creeks, including Laurel Creek and San Mateo Creek, and east of El Camino Real are at a higher risk of flooding.

City of San Mateo July 2023

101 of 599


--- page 102 ---
INTRODUCTION

Climate change may increase the frequency and severity of storms and expand the parts of the city that are
considered prone to flooding. Additionally, erosion may increase, and water quality may decrease because of
increased rainfall amounts.

Rising Sea Levels

Sea level rise is attributed to the increase of average ocean [i |
temperatures and the resulting thermal expansion and the
melting of snow and ice contributing to the volume of
water held in the oceans. While many effects of climate
change will impact the region, sea level rise is one specific
impact that has been extensively studied and quantified,
and its effects mapped. The speed and amount of sea level
rise will be influenced by the increase in average
temperatures and rate of melting of glacial ice. While there
is a degree of uncertainty in projections, the actual rate of
sea level rise is occurring more quickly than many previous
projections had estimated.

Shoreline areas of San Mateo, such as Ryder Park, may be
vulnerable to sea level rise.

The California Natural Resources Agency, in partnership
with the California Ocean Protection Council, issued a 2018
update to the State of California Sea-Level Rise Guidance, Photo by City of San Mateo

which states that sea levels in the San Francisco Bay Area

may rise between 1.1 and 2.7 feet by mid-century and between 3.4 and 10.2 feet by the end of the century.
Because it is in a low-lying coastal area, San Mateo is highly vulnerable to this threat. A sea level rise of 2 feet
could inundate areas near Seal Point. If the level of San Francisco Bay rises 7 feet, water is projected to inundate
all parts of San Mateo east of Highway 101, the area north of downtown, and large sections of the Hayward Park,
Bay Meadows, and Laurie Meadows neighborhoods. Rising sea levels also threaten a significant portion of San
Mateo’s housing, commercial buildings, essential infrastructure, and economic drivers, as low-lying land near the
shoreline could be subject to more frequent flooding. Affected essential infrastructure includes US Highway 101,
State Route (SR-) 92, and the Caltrain station and associated railroad infrastructure. Meanwhile, rising tides may
increase groundwater levels, inundating contaminated soils. Given that some contaminated sites in San Mateo
sit near the shoreline, rising groundwater may cause contaminated soils to leach into new, different areas. Figure
4 shows the parts of San Mateo that are expected to be inundated by sea level rise by 2100.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan La |

102 of 599


--- page 103 ---
CHAPTER 1

Figure 4: Sea Level Rise in San Mateo (2100)

|

—<c =

CITY OF am
BURLINGAME § -

Sei | ~~ Wpsan FRANCISCO BAY

ITY OF
5bBOROUG

~.

oo

=
PA \
ORPORATED

aa Fl Caltrain Stations Sea level rise inundation (2100)
CITY OF\ {1 San Mateo City Limit a6 (nahin
: cm Highways - Oinches
0 025 O05 1 N ! —+— Railroad
aS @) it {| Parks and Open Space

Source: Adapting to Rising Tides 2019, City of San Mateo 2019, San Mateo County 2019, ESRI 2019, PlaceWorks 2019

es City of San Mateo July 2023

103 of 599


--- page 104 ---
INTRODUCTION

Deteriorating Public Health

Heat waves are expected to have a major impact on public health, as well as decreasing air quality and increasing
mosquito breeding and mosquito-borne diseases. Further, climate change is expected to alter the spread and
prevalence of disease-carrying insects, organisms, or people, referred to as vectors, in addition to leading to a
possible decrease in food quality and security. Vector control districts throughout the State are already evaluating
how they will address the expected changes to California's climate.

According to a report from the California Air Resources Board (CARB), the warming climate will increase ozone
levels in California's major air basins, leading to upwards of 6 to 30 more days per year with ozone concentrations
that exceed federal clean-air standards. The number of extreme heat days per year (when the daily average
temperature exceeds 90 degrees) is also projected to double from mid-century to the end of the century.

Cost-effective measures to reduce GHG emissions and protect public health are important for local governments.
The new CARB study provides evidence of what is becoming known as the “climate penalty,” where rising
temperatures increase ground-level ozone and airborne health-damaging particles, despite the reductions
achieved by programs targeting smog-forming emissions from cars, trucks, and industrial sources. The elderly,
young, and sensitive populations most likely to be impacted by climate change are also those that often lack
sufficient resources to adapt. Such vulnerable demographics are likely to need assistance to respond to climate
change. Social equity issues related to the unequal distribution of resources and increased costs to address
community-wide health risks will need to be addressed proactively to reduce the potential for financial strain on
local governments.

Increased Rate of Wildfires

Wildfire risk is based on a combination of factors including rainfall, winds, temperature, and vegetation.
According to California Fourth Climate Change Assessment, higher temperatures, longer dry periods, and
increased frequency of high velocity winds over a longer fire season will directly increase wildfire risk. Indirectly,
wildfire risk will also be influenced by potential climate-related changes in vegetation and ignition potential from
lightning. Historically, the annual average area burned in San Mateo was 50 acres. According to Cal-Adapt, under
a higher emissions scenario, this could increase to an average annual burn area of 120 acres by 2050 and 132
acres by 2100. The hills behind San Mateo, east of Interstate (I-) 280, are also expected to see an increase in
wildfire frequency, and fires in this area could cause damage in the community or impact local air quality.

Negative Impacts on Wildlife

As temperatures rise, species are migrating north in California or to higher elevations. This ecological shift
disrupts the food chain and prevents some plant species from being pollinated. Water and food supplies are
expected to be more variable and to shift as the seasons change. The California Office of Emergency Services
and the California Natural Resources Agency note that those species that are unable to migrate face the danger

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 23 |

104 of 599


--- page 105 ---
CHAPTER 1

of extinction: “The amount of future warming expected in California may likely exceed the tolerance of endemic
species (i.e., those that are native to a specific location and that only occur there) given their limited distribution
and microclimate.”

Reduction in soil moisture will result in early dieback of many plants, potentially leading to conflicts with animal
breeding seasons and other natural processes. Many of the potential effects on wildlife are still being studied,
but with a limited ability to adapt to new climates and the expected success of invasive species, pests, and
pathogens in future climate conditions, there is a potential for severe species loss.

Several potential hydrological changes associated with global climate change could also specifically influence
the ecology of aquatic life in California and have several negative effects on cold-water fish. For example, if a rise
in air temperature by just a few degrees Fahrenheit occurs, this change could be enough to raise the water
temperatures above the tolerance of salmon and trout in many streams, favoring instead non-native fishes such
as sunfish and carp. Unsuitable summer temperatures would be particularly problematic for many of the
threatened and endangered fish that spend summers in cold-water streams, either as adults or juveniles or both.
Additionally, oak woodlands, a habitat found in San Mateo, is vulnerable to climate stressors that alter water
availability or soil temperature.

LOCAL CONTEXT

The CAP has been an implementation program of the City’s 2030 General Plan. The City of San Mateo adopted
the 2030 General Plan in 2010. As part of the General Plan update, the City prepared and adopted the 2010
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program (Program). The 2010 Program was the City’s first step to
consolidate City efforts into a framework for reducing GHG emissions consistent with the California Global
Warming Solutions Act. The 2010 Program was based on the City’s Sustainable Initiatives Plan adopted in the
early stages of the 2030 General Plan update. The City revised its approach four years later by developing the
2015 CAP, in response to evolving guidance and new protocols. This CAP supersedes the 2015 document.

2030 and 2040 General Plan

The 2030 San Mateo General Plan presents the City’s vision for establishing San Mateo as a diverse community
with an exceptional quality and character. The General Plan envisions a preeminent City with balanced
commercial and residential growth, with a distinguished downtown and viable, wholesome neighborhoods
driven by a solid, healthy economic and financial base.

The City’s General Plan contains goals and policies which regulate urban development, the protection of the
natural environment, and public safety. It reflects the community's long-term vision and provides a goal and
policy framework to guide land use and planning-related decisions, and future funding decisions. The General
Plan also enables citizens and those seeking to develop property to understand San Mateo’s values and

Le City of San Mateo July 2023

105 of 599


--- page 106 ---
INTRODUCTION

objectives. The General Plan also establishes the City’s vision of serving as a leader in addressing the
environmental effects of climate change with education, promotion, and fostering sustainable development.

The General Plan establishes a set of GHG reduction goals and directs the City to reduce emissions to achieve
these goals by developing a comprehensive GHG reduction strategy. The Sustainable Initiatives Plan initially
fulfilled this role, followed by the 2015 CAP. This CAP will serve as the new GHG reduction strategy for San Mateo.

The City and community members are currently updating San Mateo’s General Plan and will replace it with the
community's 2040 General Plan called Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040. This process began in 2018 and the
Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 is set to be adopted in 2024. Future updates to the CAP will reflect any new
policies or visions in Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.

Sustainable Initiatives Plan

Adopted in 2007, the Sustainable Initiatives Plan was prepared by the City’s Sustainability Advisory Committee
to the City Council, which was an ad hoc committee created for the sole purpose of developing the plan and has
since been disbanded. The Sustainable Initiatives Plan provided the City’s overall commitment and framework
for reducing GHG emissions and achieving sustainability. This document established the City’s first GHG
emissions target of reducing emissions below 1990 levels by 2020 and to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050,
consistent with State-adopted targets and goals at that time. Strategies in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan
included a commitment to incorporate sustainability into policies and foster GHG reductions throughout the
community. Community strategies suggested in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan addressed a broad array of issues,
from increasing bicycle and pedestrian mode share to facilitating energy efficiency and renewable energy
throughout the community. The City implemented the Sustainable Initiatives Plan and its companion GHG
Reduction Program (presented below), monitored progress, and presented annual updates on this document to
the City Council.

2010 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program

As part of the City’s General Plan update in 2010, the City prepared the 2010 Program. Adopted as an appendix
to the General Plan and General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR), the Program supported the General
Plan with an analysis of GHG emissions. Building on the 2007 Sustainable Initiatives Plan, the Program quantified
strategies in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan for anticipated impacts on GHG reductions. An implementation plan
in the Program also identified the City’s strategy to monitor GHG reductions and achieve the 2020 reduction
target. Preparation of the Program included the development of a monitoring and reporting tool to track
progress over time.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 25 |

106 of 599


--- page 107 ---
CHAPTER 1

The Program sought to streamline the review of new development by demonstrating consistency with BAAQMD
guidance. The City fully analyzed and adopted the Program in the General Plan EIR to facilitate streamlining of
new development review. Accordingly, the City used the Program to review and consider new development
applications for GHG emissions.

Climate Action Plan for Operations & Facilities

In 2008, San Mateo prepared a Climate Action Plan for Operations & Facilities, which includes a 2006 inventory
of emissions from municipal operations and applies the targets identified in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan to
the City. It covers emissions from energy use in City buildings, fuel use of City vehicles and equipment, commute
habits of City employees, and waste thrown away at City facilities. This plan contains policies and specific capital
improvements to help achieve these targets, along with recommendations for adapting to the impacts of climate
change and how to educate City staff about reducing emissions. In 2010, the Climate Action Plan for Operations
& Facilities was incorporated into San Mateo’s General Plan as an appendix.

2015 Climate Action Plan

The City adopted a comprehensive CAP in 2015 that integrated San Mateo’s earlier sustainability efforts into a
single document. It provided an analysis of San Mateo’s community-wide GHG emissions for the years 2005 and
2010, forecasted these emissions out to 2030, and established a new GHG reduction target of 35 percent below
2005 levels by 2030. This target, along with the targets of 15 percent below 2005 levels (equivalent of 1990 levels)
by 2020 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, were included in the General Plan as part of the 2015 CAP
adoption process. The 2015 CAP listed 28 GHG reduction measures to reduce the community's emissions, as well
as a set of implementation and monitoring efforts to help put the plan into effect. This CAP is an update to the
2015 CAP.

Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite

San Mateo has participated in the Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite (RICAPS) effort. The
City/County Association of San Mateo County (C/CAG) has led this project as a countywide effort to support
regional climate action planning. Originally funded by grants from BAAQMD and Pacific Gas and Electric
Company (PG&E), RICAPS provides tools and a forum for ongoing countywide efforts. Tools developed through
the RICAPS effort include a template of workbooks and documents available for local use. RICAPS also facilitated
preparation of recent year inventories for jurisdictions in San Mateo County, including 2010, 2015, 2017, and
2019 community-wide GHG inventories for each participating jurisdiction. Jurisdictions in RICAPS continue to
coordinate for a regional approach to monitoring GHG emissions and progress to local climate action planning
targets.

ecm City of San Mateo July 2023

107 of 599


--- page 108 ---
INTRODUCTION

While the City of San Mateo continues to participate in the RICAPS effort, the City has developed this CAP as an
independent, customized CAP for the community shaped by the City’s unique background and locally adopted
priorities.

REGULATORY FRAMEWORK

California law first addressed climate change in 1988, when AB 4420 directed the State to prepare a GHG
inventory and study the impacts of climate change. Since then, California has adopted several laws to assess
climate change, analyze GHG emissions and their effects, reduce emissions, and prepare for the impacts of
climate change. Many of these laws and associated regulations affect local governments, although only some
create specific requirements for individual communities.

Executive Order S-03-05 and Assembly Bill 32 — California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006

In 2005, former Governor Schwarzenegger issued Executive Order S-03-05, which established the first statewide
GHG reduction goals for California: reduce emissions to 2000 levels by 2010, reduce emissions to 1990 levels by
2020, and reduce emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.

AB 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act, was approved by the legislature and signed by former
Governor Schwarzenegger in 2006. The landmark legislation requires CARB to develop regulatory and market
mechanisms that will reduce GHG

emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, 500

codifying the 2020 target in Executive 450

Order S-03-05. AB 32 also directed CARB 400 Toa.
to identify early action items that could be 350

quickly implemented, to develop a w 300

scoping plan to identify the most S 250

technologically feasible and cost-effective 5 200

measures to achieve the 2020 target and ‘5 150

create and adopt regulations requiring E 100

major emitters to report and verify their = -

emissions. 0

2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020
The Climate Change Scoping Plan (first

adopted in 2009 and then updated in

2014, 2017, and 2022) employs a variety California's 2020 reduction goal under AB 32 is 431 million
. . MTCO2e. In 2020, the State emitted approximately 970

of GHG reduction measures that include million MTCO2e, reducing emissions below the State’s 2020

direct regulations, alternative compliance

mechanisms, incentives, voluntary actions,

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

@ Statewide emissions 1990 baseline emissions

108 of 599


--- page 109 ---
CHAPTER 1

and market-based approaches like a cap-and-trade program. The 2022 Scoping Plan identifies local governments
as strategic partners to achieving the State goal of reducing human-caused emissions to 85 percent below 1990
levels and achieving carbon neutrality by 2045. ..

Senate Bill 375 — Sustainable Communities and Climate Protection Act of 2008

Senate Bill (SB) 375 builds off AB 32 and aims to reduce GHG emissions by linking transportation funding to land
use planning. It requires metropolitan planning organizations (MPO) to create a sustainable communities
strategy (SCS) in their regional transportation plans for reducing urban sprawl. Each SCS will demonstrate
strategies each region will use to achieve the GHG emissions reduction target set by CARB for 2020 and 2035. In
2013, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) and the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)
adopted Plan Bay Area, consisting of both the region’s first SCS and 2040 Regional Transportation Plan. The plan
was updated in 2017 (Plan Bay Area 2040) and 2022 (Plan Bay Area 2050).

Executive Order B-30-15 and Senate Bill 32

In 2015, former governor Jerry Brown signed Executive Order B-30-15, which directed state agencies to take
several steps to reduce statewide GHG emissions and adapt to changing climate conditions. One section of this
executive order set GHG reduction goal for the state of 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. In 2016, SB 32 was
passed, codifying this GHG reduction goal into law as an official state target.

Executive Order B-55-18

In 2018, former governor Jerry Brown issued Executive Order B-55-18, which established an additional statewide
goal of achieving carbon neutrality (no net GHG emissions) by 2045. Under this goal, any GHGs that are emitted
by California must be fully offset by other activities by 2045. While this goal does not yet have the force of law,
it does indicate the direction that the state is moving in and may be a reference point for future legislative action.

Assembly Bill 1279 — California Climate Crisis Act

In 2022, the California legislature passed AB 1279, the California Climate Crisis Act, which updated the State's
targets for mitigating GHGs. California must achieve net carbon neutrality for GHG emissions by 2045 and reduce
emissions to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels. The 2022 update to the Scoping Plan identifies a path to
achieving the AB 1279 target.

Bay Area Air Quality Management District CEQA Air Quality Guidelines
Developing a CAP can also provide streamlined environmental review for new projects subject to CEQA. SB 97

directed the Governor's Office of Planning and Research (OPR) to amend the State CEQA Guidelines to address
GHG emissions. OPR adopted the CEQA Guidelines in December 2009, and they went into effect on March 18,

Lea] City of San Mateo July 2023

109 of 599


--- page 110 ---
INTRODUCTION

2010. The guidelines include provisions for local governments to use adopted plans for the reduction of GHG
emissions to address the cumulative impacts of individual future projects on GHG emissions (see State CEQA
Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) (1)).

In 2022, BAAQMD adopted the Air District's CEQA Guidelines, including CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the
Significance of Climate Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans. Appendix B of the Guidelines, CEQA Thresholds
for Evaluating the Significance of Climate Impacts, presents BAAQMD’s thresholds of significance for use in
determining whether a proposed project will have a significant impact on climate change and provides the
substantial evidence that lead agencies will need to support their use of these thresholds. The Strive San Mateo
General Plan 2040 EIR will follow this guidance for the assessment of potential impacts related to buildout.
Appendix C, Guidance for Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategies, assists public agencies with preparation of
community-wide GHG reduction strategies and CAPs. BAAQMD strongly recommends that cities and counties
adopt a CAP that has been prepared consistent with State CEQA Guidelines, Section 15183.5(b), to demonstrate
their ability to meet the State’s GHG reduction goals for 2030 and 2045 and to be updated as needed to align
with State targets and local and regional growth forecasts.

The City developed the CAP to consistent with CEQA Guidelines and BAAQMD's guidance. The 2023 technical
update to the 2020 CAP and accompanying environmental review included in the Strive San Mateo General Plan
2040 EIR are consistent with the guidance set forth by BAAQMD for plan-level review of climate impacts and
preparation of community-wide GHG reduction strategies (which parallel and elaborate on criteria established in
State CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) (1)).

This CAP continues to meet the requirements of the CEQA Guidelines and commitments in the Land Use Element
of the General Plan, as outlined below.

e Quantify emissions, both existing and projected over a specified period, resulting from activities within a
defined geographic area (see Chapter 2).

e Establish a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution of emissions from activities
covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable (see Chapter 2). This CAP identifies two
targets, consistent with State guidance, that are further addressed in Chapter 2.

e Reduce emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels (49 percent below 2005 levels) by 2030.
e Reduce emissions to 85 percent below 1990 levels (87 percent below 2005 levels) by 2045.

e Identify and analyze the emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of actions anticipated
within the geographic area (see Chapter 3 and Chapter 4).

e Specify measures or a group of measures, including performance standards that substantial evidence
demonstrates, if implemented on a project-by-project basis, would collectively achieve the specified
emissions level (see Chapter 4).

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 29 |

110 of 599


--- page 111 ---
CHAPTER 1

e Establish a mechanism to monitor the plan’s progress toward achieving the level and to require
amendment if the plan is not achieving specific levels (see Chapter 4). As referenced in the General Plan
Land Use Element (page LU-29-40), the City has developed a monitoring and implementation tool to
track GHG emission changes over time. This CAP expands and updates the City’s monitoring framework
with an implementation plan, updated monitoring tool, and a checklist for new development as described
in Chapter 4 and Appendix 3.

e Adopt the GHG Reduction Strategy in a public process following environmental review. The 2020 CAP, as
updated in 2023, is evaluated under the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 EIR.

Role of the Climate Action Plan in CEQA Implementation

Consistent with the State CEQA Guidelines, lead agencies may use adopted GHG reduction plans to assess the
cumulative impacts of discretionary projects on climate change. In addition, the guidelines provide a mechanism
to streamline development review of future projects.

Specifically, lead agencies may use adopted plans consistent with State CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5 to
analyze and mitigate the significant effects of GHGs under CEQA at a programmatic level by adopting a plan for
the reduction of GHG emissions. Later, as individual projects are proposed, project-specific environmental
documents may tier from and/or incorporate by reference that existing programmatic review in their cumulative
impacts analysis. Project-specific environmental documents prepared for projects consistent with the General
Plan and the CAP may rely on the programmatic analysis of GHGs contained in this document.

A project-specific environmental document that relies on this CAP for its cumulative impacts analysis must
identify specific GHG reduction measures applicable to the project and demonstrate the project's incorporation
of the measures. Project applicants and City staff will identify specific measures applicable to each project during
project review. If applicable measures are not otherwise binding and enforceable, they must be incorporated as
mitigation measures for the project. If substantial evidence indicates that the GHG emissions of a proposed
project may be cumulatively considerable, notwithstanding the project's compliance with specific measures in
this CAP, an EIR must be prepared for the project. This CAP includes a Consistency Checklist, contained in
Appendix 3, which City staff can use to keep track of which reduction measures an individual project complies
with. This checklist also helps project applicants quickly identify which reduction measures may apply to their
project.

CLIMATE ACTION PLANNING PROCESS

The City facilitated a collaborative process to prepare the CAP. City staff, the public, and an appointed advisory
body, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, provided ongoing input on CAP development.
Stakeholders in San Mateo vetted and recommended appropriate strategies reflective of the community. The
outreach process served to develop a plan that responds to community leadership and priorities. The strategies

| 30 City of San Mateo July 2023

111 of 599


--- page 112 ---
INTRODUCTION

in this CAP reflect those community priorities and recommendations. Engaging the community also allowed the
City to build and nurture partnerships necessary to implement the CAP.

Staff Engagement

Many measures in this CAP rely on the City of San Mateo taking action to reduce community-wide GHG
emissions. Interdepartmental engagement was essential in the development of the CAP to ensure that goals are
attainable and appropriate for each responsible department. Members of the CAP project team consulted with
staff from multiple City departments, including Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager's
Office. Drawing on the expertise of these departments helped define actions that the City was both capable and
supportive of. Specific measures refined through staff engagement include transit-oriented development,
sustainable streets, transportation demand management, recycling and waste reduction, development review,
and housing programs.

Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission

In 2014, City Council created the Sustainability Commission and appointed five San Mateo residents. In 2018, the
City Council combined the Sustainability Commission with the Public Works Commission, forming the
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. This body provides recommendations to the City Council for
policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, transportation, and infrastructure. Throughout the
CAP update process, the project team met with the City of San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure
Commission five times to provide updates, answer questions, summarize quantitative analyses, and to collaborate
on the development of new GHG reduction measures. The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was able
to lend valuable insight into local priorities and concerns in the development of measures to meet reduction
targets. This allowed for refinement of measures that focus on emissions sources and community values specific
to San Mateo, helping to shape a CAP that improves the environmental, social, and economic health of the City.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

112 of 599


--- page 113 ---
CHAPTER 1

Public Engagement

Residents of San Mateo were invited to contribute ideas and
concerns throughout the CAP development process. The project
team hosted a community workshop at the San Mateo Public
Library. Additionally, five public meetings with the Sustainability
and Infrastructure Commission served as a platform for citizens to
continue to voice their thoughts about the CAP update and
related sustainability topics.

Community Workshop

The City hosted a community workshop at the San Mateo Public
Library on June 6, 2019. The goals of the forum were for
participants to:

e Become aware of the project and the community's role in
the planning process.

e Learn about the CAP and CAP update, and San Mateo’s
efforts to reduce GHG emissions.

e Learn about the City’s contributions to climate change and
the threat climate change poses to the community.

e Engage with the CAP update team and share what they are
doing to reduce GHGs, where they think more work by the
City is needed, and what they think should be in the City’s San Mateo community members participate in the
strategy to address climate change. June 6, 2019 CAP workshop.

; Photo by PlaceWorks
Approximately 50 people attended the workshop. The event

began with a half-hour presentation by members of the CAP update project team that reviewed the sources of
San Mateo’s GHG emissions, an overview of the City’s efforts to implement the CAP since it was first adopted in
2015, and a review of the new opportunities to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions. After the presentation was
an open house session. During this period, the project team seven large posters around the room, and
participants were provided with green, yellow, and red sticky dots. Six posters listed potential GHG reduction
strategies for the CAP, and participants were asked to place sticky dots on the posters as a means of voting
(green for policies that participants support, yellow for policies that participants would consider but have
concerns about, and red for policies that participants do not support). The project team set up blank sheets of
paper next to each poster and invited participants to leave more detailed comments. The seventh poster asked
participants to write down a “big idea” for GHG reduction or share other open feedback.

| = |] City of San Mateo July 2023

113 of 599


--- page 114 ---
INTRODUCTION

During the open house period, participants were free to visit any or all posters in any order. Members of the
project team were positioned at the different posters to answer questions and help guide participants through
the activity.

Appendix 4 summarizes the results of the community workshop.

:

, 7

® URBAN INF“

UC. Becte
| ios Etats wi
Ei smorg all cated ensues

Heprdalle honsing
oca\ the fr i
oan | vebiaces wovbatVis
centers) where 1s THAT

: VATs Siem Comet §
= Kate reapic 45 mm SA.

i belek ae Pe Den Sth
dou ill it

i

: ceording to waty shal.
ss uiheot st ban
; (an pa Sat
-[ocAW NAL uae
dl ID

the Oty of
Be Mes #( om all cated,
jocen; pent n'

San Mateo community members shared their big ideas for GHG reduction at a community workshop.

Photo by PlaceWorks

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 33 |

114 of 599


--- page 115 ---
CHAPTER 1

This page has no content.

| 34 City of San Mateo July 2023

115 of 599


--- page 116 ---
%
. ES

“-* San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Chapter 2

Greenhouse Gas
Inventories,
Forecasts, and
Reduction Targets

BACKGROUND

State, regional, and local laws, along with agencies tasked with local regulatory oversight, have influenced
common methods, and provided an impetus for identification of reduction targets in California. A greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions inventory and forecast lays the groundwork for this CAP, which seeks to align the City’s
GHG reduction efforts with state-recommended targets. The City is committed to achieving a 40 percent
reduction from 1990 emissions levels by 2030 (equivalent to a 49 percent reduction below 2005 levels by 2030),
and an 85 percent reduction from 1990 levels by 2045 (equivalent to an 87 percent reduction below 2005 levels).

BASELINE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION INVENTORY

A greenhouse gas inventory is a summary of the GHG emissions occurring as a result of activities that take place
within a community. In some instances, the emissions themselves may be emitted within the jurisdiction, such as
emissions from a car being driven within the community's boundaries. In other cases, the emissions may occur
elsewhere but are included because the activity responsible for generating the emissions took place within the
jurisdiction, such as a community member using electricity generated by a power plant in another part of
California. Inventories help allow elected officials, City staff, and members of the public to understand what
activities generate GHG emissions.



--- page 117 ---
CHAPTER 2

Protocols and Guidance

Reduction targets are developed based on a calculation of current and future GHG emissions, called the GHG
inventory. The GHG inventory reflects the GHG emissions associated with everyday activities in the community
of San Mateo, such as the electricity used in homes, miles traveled in vehicles, and waste sent to landfills.

Creation of the community inventories is based on emissions factors and methods in an evolving field of science.
Over the past several years, organizations in California and throughout the United States have established
protocols to assist and guide communities in assessing GHG emissions from government operations and
community activities. While these protocols are not regulatory, they Identify relevant sources or activities,
recommend methods to estimate GHG emissions from each source, and provide consistency in the identification,
assessment, and presentation of emission results across multiple jurisdictions.

In California, and as recommended by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research, many communities utilize
the 2012 US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, commonly
referred to as the US Community Protocol, to identify and assess community activities. The protocol provides
guidance on how to measure and report community-wide GHG emissions, including identification of relevant
sources or activities, methods to estimate GHG emissions from each source, and consistency in the identification,
assessment, and presentation of emissions results across multiple jurisdictions.

The City’s community-wide GHG inventory was prepared using protocols and best practices identified within the
US Community Protocol, supported by methods in the Local Government Operations Protocol (LGOP) v. 1.1
where appropriate.

Prior Inventories

The CAP relies on four existing GHG inventories, which were all revised for consistency with current recommended
methods and best practices as part of this CAP:

1) A 2005 baseline inventory originally developed by ICLEI and revised during the preparation of the 2015
CAP,

2) A 2010 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1),

3) A 2015 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1),

4) A 2017 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1).

| 36 City of San Mateo July 2023

117 of 599


--- page 118 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND
REDUCTION TARGETS

To ensure accurate comparisons across all three existing inventories, the project team adjusted some of the
methods of these past efforts to apply a consistent approach. This also helped ensure that all inventories
were fully in compliance with the US Community Protocol. The project team made five key changes to the
inventories:

e Updated Global Warming Potential (GWP) figures: Previous inventories used GWPs (measurements
of how much heat is trapped by a unit of GHGs) reported in the IPCC’s Second Assessment Report, first
released in 1995. The project team updated these values to use the most recent GWPs from the IPCC’s
Fifth Assessment Report, which was released in 2013.

e "Origin-destination” VMT methodology: In the past, inventories utilized the “in-boundary”
methodology for estimating vehicle miles travelled (VMT) in San Mateo. This method includes all VMT
that occur within the city boundary, including pass-through traffic, regardless of trip origin or destination.
An alternative method, the “origin-destination” method, has been determined to be a more accurate
representation of VMT ina city. As a result, the inventories were updated to use this approach. The “origin-
destination” VMT methodology only accounts for vehicle trips that begin and/or end within the city
boundary and ignores “pass-through” trips that travel though San Mateo but begin and end elsewhere
(for example, a person commuting from Redwood City to San Francisco on US-101).

e Consistent off-road equipment method: Previous inventories used CARB’s OFFROAD2007 model to
estimate total emissions from off-road equipment. The project team revised the off-road equipment
emissions for all previous inventories using the updated CARB Emission Factor (EMFAC) model and
updated US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) emission factors to maintain consistency with
previous inventory methodologies.’ The EMFAC model provides more reliable information about off-road
equipment types and fuel use in the region than the previous version.

e Reporting of direct access electricity: In the past, data on total electricity use associated with direct
access customers (customers that purchase electricity directly from a power provider, rather than a utility
such as PCE or PG&E) in San Mateo was not available. Historically, direct access electricity consumption
was estimated based on County-level direct access electricity consumption data. In recent years, direct
access electricity consumption data has become available at the city level and the inventories were
updated to reflect this.

e Reporting of transmission and distribution losses for electricity and natural gas: Transmission and
distribution losses in electricity refer to the energy lost as heat during the transportation of electricity
from power plants to end-users through transmission and distribution networks. Similarly, methane
emissions result from transmission and distribution of natural gas and end-use leakage. Methane end-

' EMFAC is a model developed by the California Air Resources Board to calculate statewide or regional emissions
from vehicle activity data from all motor vehicles. More information can be found at: https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

118 of 599


--- page 119 ---
CHAPTER 2

use leakage refers to the unintentional release of methane from the final use of natural gas, such as from
pipelines, storage facilities, and appliances.

e Land use and sequestration: Land use decisions can result in the release of emissions through the
development of previously undeveloped land, or the removal (or sequestration) of carbon from the
atmosphere through the creation and protection of urban trees and open space. The project team
calculated land use emissions and sequestration (negative emissions) for the 2005 and 2019 inventories.

2019 Inventory

The project team prepared a 2019 GHG inventory to provide the most up-to-date available measurement of how
San Mateo’s GHG emissions have changed over time, including since the 2015 CAP. This inventory uses the same
methods as the updated prior inventories, ensuring that all four inventories in the CAP are consistent with each
other.

Inventory Results

The community-wide inventories in the CAP include the following sectors, consistent with guidance in the US
Community Protocol:
e On-road transportation: on-road vehicle trips on local roads and State highways within the city limits.

e Commercial/industrial built environment: electricity and natural gas used in nonresidential settings
(e.g., industrial, commercial), including direct access electricity.

e Residential built environment: electricity and natural gas used in residential settings.

e Off-road equipment: the use of portable equipment and vehicles that do not travel on roads (e.g.,
construction or lawn and garden equipment).

e Solid waste generation: material produced by the community that is deposited in landfills which
decompose and produce methane.

e Landfills: emissions that occur in the inventory year as a result of waste-in-place at a landfill that is within
the community boundary or operated by the City.

e Rail: emissions resulting from Caltrain trips generated by passengers at three stations: San Mateo,
Hayward Park, and Hillsdale, as well as emissions from freight trains.

e Water and wastewater: energy used to treat and pump water used and wastewater created, along with
emissions from the processing of wastewater.

e Land use and sequestration: emissions resulting from development of previously undeveloped land and
sinks (negative emissions) from carbon sequestration of open space and urban trees.

| 38 City of San Mateo July 2023

119 of 599


--- page 120 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND
REDUCTION TARGETS

e Point sources: stationary source emissions resulting from fossil fuel combustion within the county as
reported by BAAQMD. These emissions are included as an informational item and are not counted as part
of the City’s total emissions based on guidance from BAAQMD as they are not under the jurisdiction of
the City.

Table 2 shows the number of residents in San Mateo for the inventory years.

Table 2: San Mateo Population (2005 - 2019)

2005 2010 2015 2017 2019 eae
Value | Value | Value | Value | Value | 2005-2019

CA Dept. of
Finance, ABAG

Population 93,400 97,110 101,610 103,470 104,599 12%

In the baseline year of 2005, the GHG emissions from the covered activities totaled 666,410 MTCOze, as shown
in Table 3 and Figure 5. The sector with the largest portion of emissions was on-road transportation, which
produced 282,370 MTCOze, or 42 percent of all community emissions. The next largest sector,
commercial/industrial built environment, produced 169,000 MTCO:ze, 25 percent of the total. The residential built
environment was the third largest sector with 25 percent of total emissions (163,770 MTCOze) followed by solid
waste generation (22,180 or 3 percent), the off-road equipment (15,900 MTCOze or 2 percent), and landfill (7,370
MTCOze or 1 percent) sectors. Rail emissions totaled 4,350 MTCOze (1 percent) and water and wastewater
emissions totaled 2,520 MTCOze (less than 1 percent of total emissions). Finally, land use and sequestration were
responsible for a reduction in emissions of 1,050 MTCOze, equivalent to removing 1 percent of total emissions.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 39 |

120 of 599


--- page 121 ---
CHAPTER 2

Table 3: San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions

po Sector MTCOze

On-road transportation 282,370 A2%
Commercial/industrial built environment 169,000 25%
Residential built environment 163,770 25%
Solid waste generation 22,180 3%
Off-road equipment 15,900 2%
Landfill 7,370 1%
Rail 4,350 1%
Water and wastewater 2,520 0%
Land use and sequestration -1,050 -1%
Total 666,410 100%
Informational Items

Point sources 7,390 1%

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

Figure 5: San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCOze)

Commercial/
industrial built
environment:

Landfill:

0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 300,000
MTCO,e

* Point sources are included as an informational item and are not counted towards the total GHG emissions for the city.

| 40 | City of San Mateo July 2023

121 of 599


--- page 122 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND
REDUCTION TARGETS

Interim Inventories

The 2010, 2015, and 2017 inventories show how San Mateo's GHG emissions have changed over time. Total
emissions declined from 666,410 MTCOze in 2005 to 520,410 MTCOze in 2019, a decrease of 22 percent.
Emissions from most sectors declined as well, except for emissions from point sources and rail activity. Overall,
the relative proportion of emissions from different sectors remained similar (on-road transportation emissions
remained the largest source of emissions, followed by residential and commercial/industrial built environment,
then off-road equipment, etc.). Tables 4 and 5 and Figure 6 show the change in San Mateo’s community-wide
GHG emissions from 2005 to 2019.

Table 4: San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide Emissions

Percentage

2005 2010 2015 Change,

(MTCOze) | (MTCOze) | (MTCOze) | (MTCO:ze) | (MTCOze) 2005 to

2019
On-road transportation 282,370 287,550 280,570 269,110 276,560 -2%
commercialincustia ult 169,000 151,200 137,350 101,720 _—-83,660 50%
Residential built environment 163 750 165,800 131,660 118,980 114,630 -30%
Off-road equipment 15,900 17,840 14,960 14,940 14,400 -9%
Solid waste generation 22,180 16,580 15,860 17,890 21,910 -1%
Landfill 7,370 6,670 6,030 5,800 4,180 -43%
Rail 4,350 4,480 4,410 4,520 4,440 2%
Water and wastewater 2,520 2,380 2220 1,810 1,670 -34%
Land use and sequestration -1050 -1,050 -1,050 -1,040 -1040 -1%
Total 666,410 651,450 592,010 533,730 520,410 -22%
Informational Item

Point sources 7,390 7,390 11,610 14,230 18,090 145%

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | oat |

122 of 599


--- page 123 ---
CHAPTER 2

Figure 6: San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCOze)

666,410 MTCO,e

700,000 651,450 MTCO,e
592,010 MTCO,e
600,000 533,730 MTCO3e 559 410 MTCO,e
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0
-100,000
2005 2010 2015 2017 2019
 On-road transportation & Commercial/industrial built environment
@ Residential built environment @ Off-road equipment
@ Solid waste generation @ Landfill

The decrease in GHG emissions from most sectors is due to less resource use, less GHG-intensive resources, or
both. For example, San Mateo buildings used approximately 10 percent less electricity in 2019 than in 2005.
Additionally, the electricity used in San Mateo also generated 77 percent fewer GHGs per kilowatt-hour (kWh) in
2019 than in 2005, causing emissions from building electricity use to fall by 80 percent. In another case, San
Mateo community members drove 14 percent more miles in 2019 than 2005, but cars became 15 percent cleaner
during this period, causing a 2 percent decline in emissions.

It is important for community members to see their role in producing, and therefore reducing, GHG emissions.
Table 5 presents the 2005 baseline and 2019 current-year inventory results in a per-capita format. In 2005,
residents produced 7.14 MTCOze per person. In 2019 residents produced 4.98 MTCOze per person.

[ze] City of San Mateo July 2023

123 of 599


--- page 124 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND
REDUCTION TARGETS

Table 5: San Mateo 2005 and 2019 Community Emissions (Per-Capita)

MTCOze per-capita 7.14 4.98

GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FORECAST

A forecast of future GHG emissions helps to ensure consistency with the guidelines for a Qualified GHG Reduction
Strategy put forward by BAAQMD, as described in Chapter 1. A forecast allows elected officials, City staff, and
community members to identify the amount of reductions necessary in order to achieve future GHG reduction
targets and can help support long-range community planning efforts. The CAP update includes a forecast for the
calendar years 2030 2040, and 2045.

A GHG emissions forecast estimates how emissions would grow over time if no action is taken at the federal,
State, or local level to reduce them. A set of indicators determines the extent of growth that could occur and how
resulting emissions may change. An emissions forecast was prepared for San Mateo using the best available
information regarding indicators and growth rates. The forecast relies on growth assumptions from the buildout
projections in the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040. Activity data rates in the forecast, such as household
energy use, vehicle miles travelled, or per person waste disposal, are based on the 2019 emissions inventory.

Table 6 presents data from 2019 and projections for the years 2030, 2040, and 2045.

Table 6: San Mateo 2019, 2030, 2040, and 2045 Growth Indicators

2019 2030 2040 Percentage
Value Value Value Change,
2019-2045

Population 104,599 129,210 156,585 172,370 65%
Households 39,771 49,260 59,843 65,960 66%
Jobs 61,232 69,400 77,760 82,310 34%
Service population’ 165,831 198,610 234,345 254,680 54%

’ Service population is the sum of the residential population and the number of jobs.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 43 |

124 of 599


--- page 125 ---
CHAPTER 2

Each indicator is used to project future emissions for the following sectors:

e Population: off-road equipment (lawn and garden equipment, pleasure crafts, portable equipment, and
recreational equipment).

e Households: Residential built environment.

e Jobs: Commercial/industrial built environment, off-road equipment (industrial equipment and light
commercial equipment).

e Service population: On-road transportation, rail (Caltrain), off-road equipment (construction and mining
equipment, transportation refrigeration units), solid waste generation, water and wastewater.

Emissions from direct access electricity, point sources, and freight trains are held constant, and are not projected
to change over time. Construction and mining emissions, part of the off-road equipment sector, are forecasted
by the change in service population. Landfill emissions are based on decomposition rates provided by CARB and
are not forecasted by an indicator. Land use and sequestration emissions are based on the acreage of forested
land, developed land, and urban areas, as projected by the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.

The project team applied these indicators to forecast future GHG emissions. Relative to 2019 emissions, San
Mateo’s GHG emissions are expected to rise by more than 44 percent by 2045 if no action is taken. The forecast
assumes that each person in San Mateo will continue to contribute the same amount of GHGs to the community's
total, so that the amount of GHGs increase as the demographics of the community change. Tables 7 and 8 show
San Mateo’s forecasted community-wide GHG emissions

| 4a City of San Mateo July 2023

125 of 599


--- page 126 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND

REDUCTION TARGETS

Table 7: San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals

2030

(MTCO2e)

2019
(MTCOze)

On-road transportation 276,560
commercralingustra built 83,660
Residential built environment 114,630
Off-road equipment 14,400
Solid waste generation 21,910
Landfill 4,180
Rail 4,440
Water and wastewater 1,670
Land use and sequestration -1,040
Total 520,400
Percentage Change from 2005 =2270
Informational Item

Point sources 18,090

308,930
93,710

141,960
23,170
26,240

4,470
5,220
1,390
-1,050
605,240
-9%

18,090

2040 2045 Percentage
(MTCOze) | (MTCO2e) | _ C2nge.

2019-2045
351,730 375,310 36%
104,010 109,610 31%
172,460 190,110 66%
26,620 30,360 111%
30,960 33,650 54%
3,660 3,310 -21%
6,080 6,560 48%
2,340 2,540 53%
-1,050 -1,050 0%
696,810 750,400 44%

5% 13%

18,090 18,090 0%

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

July 2023

Climate Action Plan | 45 |

126 of 599


--- page 127 ---
CHAPTER 2

GHG EmIsSsIONS REDUCTION TARGETS

The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) requires that a Qualified GHG
Reduction Strategy contain a goal for substantive GHG reductions, although the guidelines do not set a specific
level for what these goals should be. In the Climate Change Scoping Plan (Scoping Plan), the State provides its
statewide GHG reduction targets and guidance for local communities. The CAP uses 2005 as a baseline year for
measuring progress towards emission targets. In the 2015 CAP, the City adopted a GHG reduction target of 15
percent below the baseline 2005 GHG emission levels by 2020. The City chose this reduction target to remain
consistent with the state-recommended target at the time, which was a reduction of 15 percent below existing
levels by 2020, which is the local equivalent of the state’s own adopted reduction target of reducing emissions
to 1990 levels. Although “existing emission levels” was not formally defined by the Scoping Plan, agencies
throughout California have often interpreted it as referring to emissions occurring between 2005 and 2008. San
Mateo’s GHG reduction strategies have used 2005 emissions as the “existing” levels and the State targets to
inform the 2030 and 2045 targets listed below.

These statewide targets are:
e 2030: Reduce emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels, codified into law by SB 32 (2016)

e 2045: Reduce emissions 85 percent below 1990 levels and achieve carbon neutrality, codified into law by
AB 1279 (2022).

Based on the results of the quantification process to identify the GHG reduction potential from this CAP (see
Chapter 3), the City determined that the statewide targets for 2030 and 2045 were appropriate for San Mateo.
To ensure that the CAP can continue to serve as a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy, San Mateo has set its 2030
and 2045 targets to align with the State’s targets. In the quantification of the CAP measures, 2040 is used as an
interim benchmark as it aligns with the horizon of Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 and tracks progress
towards the 2045 target. These targets are meant to serve as ceilings for future GHG emissions. As discussed in
the following chapter, the City has the potential to achieve greater GHG reductions, decreasing emissions below
these levels.

Previous versions of the Scoping Plan have recommended per-capita targets for community-wide plans, such as
a CAP. The 2020 CAP, prior to the 2023 update, used per-capita targets as recommended by the most recently
adopted version of the Scoping Plan at the time it was written. With the adoption of AB 1279 and the 2022
Scoping Plan, State guidance recommends that local governments use “absolute” GHG reduction targets
consistent with statewide GHG reduction goals. This version of the CAP uses absolute GHG reduction targets.

| 46 City of San Mateo July 2023

127 of 599


--- page 128 ---
Qualified GHG Reduction Strategies
These revised targets help ensure that the 2020 CAP will continue to serve as San Mateo’s Qualified GHG
Reduction Strategy, which allows developments that are consistent with the CAP to streamline their
environmental review. As noted in Chapter 1, the requirements for a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy are:

Quantify emissions, both existing and projected over a time period, from activities in a defined area.

Establish a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution of emissions from
activities covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable.

Identify and analyze the emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of actions
anticipated within the geographic area.

Specify measures or a group of persons that substantial evidence demonstrates, if implemented on
a project-by-project basis, would collectively achieve the specified emissions level.

Establish a mechanism to monitor the plan's progress toward achieving the level and to require
amendment if the plan is not achieving specific levels.

Adopt the GHG reduction strategy in a public process following environmental review.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

128 of 599


--- page 129 ---
CHAPTER 2

il

: it jlOW LEASING:

F m
—_ = LiveAtSPG.CO™
1 STATION PST ——=

ee fT) Apartments

The targets in the CAP can apply to individual development projects as well as the entire community, helping to streamline the
environmental review projects that are consistent with San Mateo’s GHG reduction efforts.

Photo by City of San Mateo

Las] City of San Mateo July 2023

129 of 599


--- page 130 ---
%
a

City of
’ San Mateo
Climate Action Plan

2 >
ALroe

Chapter 3

Strategies to Achieve
the Targets

To understand the level of action necessary to achieve the City’s reduction targets this updated CAP analyzes
existing, planned, and future actions. By first looking at these accomplishments, the City can understand progress
achieved and outstanding opportunities. Existing and current efforts provide a foundation for this CAP. New
measures can further close the gap and guide future programs. Together, these efforts serve as the City’s
multipronged strategy to achieve reduction targets.

Table 8 shows the GHG emission levels that are expected to result when this CAP is fully implemented, based on
the results of the analyses in this chapter, along with the GHG reduction targets.

Table 8: San Mateo Emissions with CAP Implementation (2030 — 2045)

Projected Emission level 311,990 MTCOze 80,550 MTCOze
Target 339,880 MTCOze 84,970 MTCOze
Target achieved? Yes Yes
Gap to target -27,890 MTCOze -4,420 MTCOze

The CAP achieves these reductions by accounting for the GHG reductions from existing and planned State,
regional, and local activities, along with the reduction measures in the CAP itself. Table 9 shows the reduction
levels achieved by the individual measures in the CAP. More details about the measures and all other reductions
are given below.



--- page 131 ---
CHAPTER 3

Table 9: Reductions from CAP Measures (2030 — 2045)

BE 1: All-electric new construction -21,070 -38,450 -47,250
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings -102,210 -184,610 -221,260
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy -160 170 0
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 70 160 0
residences
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing

; , a -60 -90 0
nonresidential buildings
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits -6,160 -7,020 -6,790
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits -3,800 -8,860 -13,380

EE 3: Residential tree planting

ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings

Less than -10

Less than -10

Less than-10

Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)

ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings =10 -30 -40
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings =130 -200 270
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure -24 420 -49 390 -69,780
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach -4,910 -8,030 -12,360
CF 3: Clean city fleet -130 -200 -270
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions -4210 -16,920 -26,360
ST 1: Bicycle mode share -80 -170 -180
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share -110 -120 -130

ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility

Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)

ST 4: Public transit service -3,610 -5,660 -6,910
ST 5: Commuter programs Less than -10 -70 -160
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management -2,010 -7,950 -13,410
ST 7: Transit-oriented development -10,200 -18,920 -23,700
SW 1: Composting program -1,030 = 710 =1,050
| 50 City of San Mateo July 2023

131 of 599


--- page 132 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

SW 2: Expanded recycling service -6,070 -7,130 -8,820
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction -2,080 -4,050 -5,590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings -170 -300 -360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping Less than -10 =10 0
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction Less than -10 -10 -20
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment -3,660 -7,130 -9 890
Total -196,360 -367,960 -468,780

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
Existing and Planned Accomplishments

Both State and local efforts have achieved additional progress toward the reduction target, reducing the
outstanding gap of emissions to achieve the City’s reduction targets described in the previous chapter.

As mentioned in Chapter 2, the GHG emissions forecast is based on the results of the 2019 inventory and assumes
that per-capita activity remains constant, so that changes in projected emissions are based on expected changes
in San Mateo’s demographics. This approach means that any action taken through 2019 to reduce GHG emissions
is already taken into consideration for the forecast. For example, if homes installed solar energy systems in 2018,
the effect of that action (lower residential electricity use) will already show up in the 2019 inventory, and by
extension will be carried through into the forecast.

State Existing and Planned Accomplishments

Since passing AB 32, the State has enacted regulations and programs to reduce GHG emissions. Although
statewide in scope, these actions affect several sources of San Mateo’s emissions, and so the local benefits of
these State efforts can be “credited” to San Mateo even in cases where the community has not needed to take
any action. This CAP includes the local benefits from five State policies:

e Renewables Portfolio Standard: The Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) was first established in 2002
and has been amended multiple times, most recently by SB 100 in 2018. It requires all electricity providers
in the State to obtain at least 33% of their electricity from eligible renewable resources by the end of
2020, 60% of their electricity from eligible renewable resources by the end of 2030, and all of their
electricity from carbon-free (although not necessarily eligible renewable) resources by the end of 2045.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 51 |

132 of 599


--- page 133 ---
CHAPTER 3

This policy reduces GHG emissions from electricity use, including
electricity used to transport and process water and wastewater,
and electricity used for electric vehicles.

Clean Car Standards: |n 2002, California adopted AB 1493, the
New Passenger Motor Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission
Standards or Pavley standard. It requires a reduction in tailpipe
GHG emissions from new vehicles produced from 2009 to 2015.
In 2012 CARB adopted an extension of this policy, the Advanced
Clean Car Standards, which require more stringent reductions in
tailpipe GHG emissions from vehicles produced from 2016 to
2025. In 2022, CARB adopted a further extension, known as
Advanced Clean Cars II, which apply to vehicles produced from
2026 to 2035, and require that all new light-duty vehicles sold in
California be zero-emission by 2035. The Clean Car Standards
(including the Advanced Clean Car Standards) reduce GHG
emissions from on-road transportation.

Title 24 Energy Efficiency Standards: Title 24 is California's
energy efficiency standards for new buildings, applied at the local
level through the project review process. The standards are
strengthened every three years, with the ultimate goal of making
new buildings net-zero energy, meaning that they would
generate as much energy as they use. The most recent set of Title

Renewable and
Carbon-Free

Electricity
California's RPS establishes
requirements for both eligible
renewable and carbon-free
electricity. Eligible renewable
resources are those that are
specifically defined under state

law, and include solar, wind,
geothermal, small-scale
hydroelectric, and most forms of
bioenergy. Carbon-free sources
include eligible renewable
sources, as well as others that do
not emit GHGs but are not
officially defined as renewable,
including large-scale
hydroelectric and nuclear energy.

24 standards went into effect on January 1, 2023. This policy will reduce GHG emissions from electricity
and natural gas use in new homes and nonresidential buildings.

e SB 1383: California’s SB 1383 aims to reduce GHG emissions from organic waste by requiring businesses
and residents to separate their organic waste from other waste streams for recycling or composting. The
law sets targets for reducing organic waste disposal in landfills by 75 percent by 2025 and requires local
jurisdictions to implement organic waste recycling programs to meet these goals.

Collectively, the State reduction efforts are expected to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions below forecasted
levels by 72,890 MTCOze in 2030, 147,970 MTCOze in 2040, and 196,150 MTCOze in 2045. Table 10 shows the
emission reductions from the individual State existing activities.

July 2023

ey City of San Mateo

133 of 599


--- page 134 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Table 10: San Mateo Community-Wide GHG Emissions Reductions from State Programs

Polic 2030 Emissions 2040 Emissions 2045 Emissions
y (MTCO ze) (MTCO2e) (MTCOze)

Forecasted emissions 605,240 696,810 750,400
Clean Car Standards -55,030 -95,730 -109,680
Renewables Portfolio Standard -4,720 -15,330 -39,860
Title 24 -9,380 -32,480 -41,790
SB 1383 -3,760 -4,430 -4,820
Total reductions from existing State programs -72,890 -147,970 -196,150
Emissions with existing State programs 532,340 548 840 554,260

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

There are other programs that reduce GHG emissions that State agencies have adopted or are planning to put
into effect. These are not included in this section because of uncertainty about how these programs will be
applied. In many cases, State programs may be implemented by local actions, and reductions associated with
these programs are included in the local reduction measures discussed later in this chapter.

Existing and Planned Local and Regional Accomplishments

The City of San Mateo has a successful history of developing and implementing sustainability policies. The City’s
adopted plans, along with leadership from community members and businesses have been partially responsible
for the decline in GHG emissions since 2005. Several policies are currently in place that are expected to further
reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions. Some of these accomplishments were established before the City adopted
its first CAP in 2015, while others were implemented in response to the 2015 CAP.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 53 |

134 of 599


--- page 135 ---
CHAPTER 3

The project team identified the following existing local and
regional efforts that are expected to reduce San Mateo’s future
GHG emissions:

e Peninsula Clean Energy: Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is
a community choice energy program run by the local
governments of San Mateo County that is the default
electric provider for the City of San Mateo and provided
approximately 87 percent of the community’s electricity as
of 2019 (expected to grow to more than 90 percent by
2020). First established in 2016, PCE provides electricity to Peninsula Clean Energy provides most of San
community members from a higher proportion of Mateo’s electricity, and offers a cleaner mix of
renewable and carbon-free sources than PG&E. As of “" SY Sources pane ae ae levees
2021, PCE supplies 100 percent carbon-free electricity and Photo by City of San Mateo
plans to supply 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025.

e Energy efficiency retrofits: A number of single-family homes, multi-family homes, and businesses in
San Mateo have conducted energy efficiency retrofits. These retrofits involve replacing older appliances
with more energy-efficient models, upgrading insulation, improved sealing around windows and doors,
and other types of activities. From 2015 to 2019, over 1,600 single-family and multifamily homes and at
least 66 businesses, have completed energy efficiency retrofits through programs such as Energy Upgrade
California and the San Mateo County Energy Watch.

e Solar energy installation: Since 2016, San Mateo has required in its building code that all new residential
and non-residential buildings install solar energy systems. Many existing building owners have also
chosen to voluntarily install these systems on their properties, reducing their electricity bills and
increasing the amount of renewable energy used by the community. Since the 2020 CAP was adopted,
San Mateo has installed close to 700 solar energy systems, capable of generating almost 4 MW of power.

e Municipal energy efficiency retrofits: In addition to the Smart Street Light program and retrofits by
private property owners, San Mateo has conducted several energy efficiency retrofits at municipal
properties. At the end of 2017, the City began working with PG&E to identify potential retrofit activities
through the Sustainable Systems Turnkey program. San Mateo secured approximately $3.2 million in
funding for energy-efficiency upgrades to municipal facilities. Since 2020, San Mateo has conducted
significant retrofits to City facilities, saving over 1,831,170 kWh and 22,871 therms annually. The City has
also carried out lighting retrofits at small buildings such as public park restrooms and storage sheds,
using a grant from the San Mateo County Energy Watch.

| 54 City of San Mateo July 2023

135 of 599


--- page 136 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Public-access EV chargers: The City of San Mateo has |

installed 55 publicly accessible EV charging stations in the
community since 2020, including DC fast chargers that can
recharge an electric vehicle in less than an hour. In
addition to helping to support EV adoption in San Mateo
itself, the presence of publicly accessible EV chargers also
helps boost EV adoption in the region, making it easier for
people to use EVs for longer trips.

Transportation Demand Management: San Mateo
requires that new significant developments along the
Caltrain corridor reduce the number of trips they generate
relative to a conventional development project. Since
2017, there have been 895 residential units and
approximately 158,370 square feet of nonresidential space

Public electric vehicle charging stations at a
shopping center in San Mateo.

Photo by PlaceWorks

planned or under construction in San Mateo that are subject to trip reduction requirements.

Additional bicycle lanes: San Mateo published the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, which proposes the
development of an additional 45 miles of bicycle lanes to achieve a target of 101 bicycle lanes citywide.
Improved bike infrastructure and increased connectivity of the bicycle network can reduce VMT as
residents are encouraged to replace vehicle trips with bicycle trips. Since its publication, approximately 6

miles of bicycle lanes have been completed.

There is also one planned action accounted for in this CAP:

Caltrain electrification: This is a plan to install overhead power lines above the tracks on the Caltrain
commuter rail line between San Francisco and San Jose, which will allow Caltrain to replace most of its
diesel-powered locomotives with electric ones, significantly reducing GHG emissions from Caltrain
operations. As of 2020, some electric lines have been installed, but electric trains are not expected to

begin carrying passengers until at least 2024.

Some actions included in the initial version of the 2020 CAP are removed for the 2023 technical CAP update as
they no longer produce additional GHG emission reductions beyond 2020. GHG emission savings from these
programs are already accounted for in the 2019 GHG inventory and projections of future emissions. These
include:

Upgraded streetlights program: San Mateo has replaced over 5,600 streetlights in the community with
LED bulbs that use significantly less energy than older bulbs. This program is expected to save
approximately 2 million kWh of electricity annually, equal to the yearly electricity use of almost 400 San

July 2023

Climate Action Plan | 55 |

136 of 599


--- page 137 ---
CHAPTER 3

Mateo homes. These LED bulbs also provide higher-quality lighting and reduce light pollution in
accordance with the Dark Sky Objectives.

e Caltrain shuttles: The regional Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance operates three public shuttles
in San Mateo, transporting riders from the Hillsdale Caltrain station to employment centers throughout
the community. These three shuttles served approximately 58,900 people in 2018. Ridership of the
shuttles decreased during the COVID-19 pandemic shelter-in-place period and is therefore not quantified
as a GHG reduction measure.

e Composting: San Mateo first established a composting program in 2011, allowing participating residents
and businesses to place organic waste in a dedicated waste bin to be picked up by the community waste
hauler along with trash and recyclables. With the passage of SB 1383, any GHG emission reductions
associated with composting are quantified as part of the State measure.

e Electric vehicle adoption: San Mateo, like many other Bay Area communities, has been a leader in
adopting EVs. When San Mateo’s original CAP was adopted in 2015, there were approximately 1,050 EVs
registered in the community, including plug-in hybrids. San Mateo adopted requirements for new
development that went into effect in 2017, mandating that multifamily and nonresidential developments
install EV chargers at a set number of parking spaces. By the end of 2017, the number of EVs had more
than doubled to approximately 2,290, making EVs approximately 2 percent of all cars registered in the
community. San Mateo adopted a revised building standard code in 2020, which requires more EV
chargers and EV-capable spaces at all types of new developments. Since the projected rate of EV adoption
locally does not surpass the State level adoption projection, any GHG emission reductions associated with
EV adoption are quantified as part of the State’s Clean Fuel Standards.

This is not a comprehensive list of all existing and planned local and regional accomplishments that may reduce
GHG emissions. The City and its regional partners have implemented many other policies and programs that may
contribute to GHG reductions. However, these efforts may not have clearly measurable reductions, or data on
their effectiveness may not be available. In these cases, the project team is unable to credit a GHG reduction to
these efforts.

As with the State reductions, the CAP credits reductions from local and regional efforts that go beyond the
policies in place as of 2019, as conditions that existed in 2019 are already factored into the forecast. In addition,
the CAP only credits local and regional reduction efforts if they go beyond State policy. For example, San Mateo
received significant reduction credits from EV adoption in 2020 because the local numbers exceed what the State
forecasts for the region. However, by 2030, State policies are expected to increase EV adoption to exceed San
Mateo’s current rate, so the community does not receive any additional GHG reductions from local
accomplishments.

| 56 City of San Mateo July 2023

137 of 599


--- page 138 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Collectively, San Mateo’s existing and planned local and regional accomplishments are expected to reduce
emissions by 23,990 MTCOze in 2030, 18,360 MTCOze in 2040, and 4,950 MTCO:ze in 2045, in addition to the
reductions achieved by State accomplishments. Table 11 shows the reductions from each local and regional
accomplishment.

Table 11: Emissions Reductions from Local and Regional Programs

2030 GHG 2040 GHG 2045 GHG

Policy Emissions Emissions Emissions

(MTCOze) (MTCOze) (MTCOze)
Emissions with Existing State Programs 532,340 548,840 554,260
Peninsula Clean Energy -20,000 -13,750 0
Energy efficiency retrofits -30 -30 -30
Solar energy installations -20 -10 0
Municipal energy retrofits -160 -160 -160
Public access EV chargers 0 0 0
Transportation Demand Management -220 -200 -190
Caltrain electrification (planned) -3,560 -4200 -4,560

Total reductions from existing and planned local
and regional programs

Emissions with existing and planned local and 508,380 530,510 549,320
regional programs

=23,000 =18,330 -4,940

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

Existing and planned local, regional, and State accomplishments reduce San Mateo’s forecasted GHG emissions
by a significant amount. Table 12 shows the benefit of these accomplishments relative to San Mateo’s baseline.

Table 12: Emissions with Existing and Planned Efforts

policy 030 | z0tn|2085

2005 (baseline) emissions (MTCOze) 666,430 666,430 666,430
Emissions with existing and planned programs (MTCOze) 508,380 530,510 549,320
Percent below baseline emissions -24% -20% -18%

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

138 of 599


--- page 139 ---
CHAPTER 3

REVISED AND NEw GHG REDUCTION MEASURES

A central goal of the CAP update is to achieve additional GHG reductions to work toward the City’s 2030, 2040,
and 2045 reduction target, recognizing that the reduction measures in the 2015 CAP are insufficient to meet
these reductions. To identify these additional reductions, the project team began with the 28 GHG reduction
measures in the City’s 2015 CAP. Some of these measures have been fully implemented, and do not need to be
carried forward into the CAP update. Others are still applicable and can be revised or expanded to achieve
additional GHG reductions. There are also opportunities to add entirely new measures to address new and
emerging issues not covered in the 2015 CAP.

The project team based the revised and new GHG reduction measures on several sources, including:

San Mateo’s inventory and forecast.
The existing and planned State, regional, and local accomplishments.

Discussions with City staff to identify past successes and challenges, plans and opportunities, and goals
and priorities related to GHG reduction efforts.

An audit of energy-related strategies being recommended and implemented by communities throughout
San Mateo County through the RICAPS program, working with staff from PCE and the San Mateo County
Office of Sustainability

Feedback and direction from Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission members, along with
comments provided by members of the public at these meetings.

Comments and results of the priority voting activity at the June 6, 2019, community workshop.

| 58 City of San Mateo July 2023

139 of 599


--- page 140 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Calculating Credit

This CAP uses a process called quantification to determine the amount of GHG emissions reduced by each
measure. The foundation for the quantification calculations is the baseline GHG inventory and forecast. Activity
data from the inventory, such as vehicle miles traveled (VMT) or kilowatt-hours (kWh), are combined with
participation rates and data about the reduction in activity data from each action to calculate the GHG reduction
benefit of each measure. This approach ensures that the GHG reductions from San Mateo’s CAP measures are
tied to current and future activities that are actually occurring in the community.

Calculations for reductions in activity data come from tools and reports provided by government agencies; these
agencies include the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the California Energy Commission (CEC), the
California Air Resources Board (CARB), the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association, the US
Department of Energy, and local air districts. If accurate data are not available through these sources, the
quantification uses case studies from comparable communities and applicable scholarly research. The specific
quantification process for each measure is presented in Appendix 1, which includes a list of data sources and
assumptions.

The project team was able to identify GHG reductions for most of the measures in this CAP. However, there are
a few that do not have a specific reduction level due to missing data or the lack of a reliable method. These
efforts are still expected to reduce GHG emissions, but the level cannot be accurately determined. These
measures are labeled as supportive.

GHG Reduction Measures

Based on the results of this process, the project team identified a total of 29 GHG reduction measures to include
in this CAP. These measures include a mix of education and outreach programs to encourage GHG reduction
activities, financial subsidies, and other enticements to incentivize GHG reductions, and mandates to require GHG
reduction efforts. These 29 measures are organized into 9 categories:

1) Building Electrification (BE) 6) Clean Transportation Fuels (CF)
2) Renewable Energy (RE) 7) Sustainable Transportation (ST)
3) Energy Efficiency (EE) 8) Solid Waste (SW)

4) Municipal Energy Efficiency and 9) Water and Wastewater (WW)

Electrification (ME)
5) Off-Road Equipment (OR)

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 59 |

140 of 599


--- page 141 ---
CHAPTER 3

Each measure entry includes a description of the measure, the anticipated 2030, 2040, and 2045 GHG reductions
achieved by the measure at the projected performance level, and the recommended actions necessary to
implement it. Assumptions, projected performance levels, sources, and metrics used to calculate GHG reductions
are given for each measure in Appendix 1. Each measure entry also identifies the co-benefits of the measure,
which are advantages provided by the measure beyond GHG reduction. Figure 7 presents the co-benefits
assessment for each GHG reduction measure.

Figure 7: CAP Co-Benefits

\g y
®
id PEW
Conserves resources Enhances local economy Improves public health
\ > - “
+ =A
Promotes equity Reduces utility bills Saves energy

Building Electrification (BE)

Most buildings, both residential and nonresidential, use electricity and natural gas to operate appliances and
other pieces of equipment. While sources of electricity have become much cleaner over time and will continue
to become cleaner due to State law and utility policies, the GHG emissions associated with using a unit of natural
gas has remained constant, as natural gas is a fossil fuel and cannot become a cleaner energy source. Buildings
that receive most or all their energy from electricity instead of natural gas can significantly reduce their GHG
emissions as a result. Buildings can be constructed to be mostly electric or all-electric, or existing buildings can
be electrified as part of retrofit activities. Advances in electric appliances, such as those used for space heating,
water heating, and cooking, have helped make building electrification easier and more cost-effective.

BE 1: All-electric new construction

As San Mateo property owners construct new residential and nonresidential buildings, they have the option to
construct these buildings to receive most or all their energy from electricity rather than natural gas. Not having
to install natural gas piping decreases the cost of construction. New buildings in San Mateo must also install
solar panels to generate electricity, and so all-electric buildings with solar panels may be able to generate all the
energy they need on-site.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 21,070 38,450 47,250
| 60 City of San Mateo July 2023

141 of 599


--- page 142 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Recommended actions:

e For each three-year code cycle, adopt a reach code to encourage residential and commercial new
construction to be built to an all-electric standard, including electric heating, cooling, and water heating.

e Explore the feasibility of reducing permitting fees if builders elect to construct all-electric buildings
instead of buildings that use natural gas.

Co-benefits:
\g .
‘7 3 Ker a
+s
Conserves resources Improves public health Promotes equity Reduces utility bills

BE 2: All-electric existing buildings

Although most existing buildings already have natural gas infrastructure and natural gas devices installed, these
systems can be converted to all-electric. Electric appliances that replace natural gas-powered models are highly
efficient, readily available, and cost-effective. Many buildings can install these appliances with simple electric
wiring and panel upgrades, if upgrades are required at all. The cost of converting existing buildings to mostly-
or all-electric can be further reduced if the electrification is done as part of a larger retrofit activity.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 102,210 184,610 221,260

Recommended actions:

e Encourage residents and businesses to purchase electric technologies (e.g., air source heat pumps, heat
pump water heaters, electric dryers, and electric stoves).

e Encourage residents and businesses to upgrade electric panels to accommodate electric technologies
including solar PV, battery storage, air source heat pumps, heat pump water heaters, electric dryers, and
electric stoves.

e Support training and outreach to residents, businesses, contractors, vendors, and installers about
preferable electric equipment replacement technologies.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 61 |

142 of 599


--- page 143 ---
CHAPTER 3

Co-benefits:
\g ¢
ed RM > wy
+.
Conserves resources Improves public health Promotes equity Reduces utility bills

es] City of San Mateo July 2023

143 of 599


--- page 144 ---
Renewable Energy (RE)

Renewable Energy Emissions Reductions in 2045

Measures that only reduce electricity use or increase renewable electricity supplies will show zero GHG
reductions in 2045. This is because all electricity sold in California must be carbon-free by 2045, as required
by the State’s Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS). Since there will already be no emissions from electricity
use in 2045, San Mateo cannot count additional reductions associated with electricity in this year. This CAP
already credits reductions from the RPS as an existing State program.

While Peninsula Clean Energy supplies most of San Mateo’s electricity and is carbon-free as of 2021, some
San Mateo customers are still expected to receive their electricity from PG&E or direct access providers. As
these providers are not expected to be carbon-free until required by the State, measures that reduce
electricity use or increase renewable electricity supplies will show some GHG reductions in 2030 and 2040,
even though most of the community will already use carbon-free electricity.

Remember that local renewable energy systems and energy efficiency measures will continue to provide
several co-benefits to the community, including lower electricity bills and increased resiliency against power
disruptions, even if there are no measurable additional GHG reductions.

While much of San Mateo’s electricity already comes from renewable or carbon-free sources, increasing the
amount of energy in the community from renewable sources not only further reduces GHG emissions but also
has the potential to reduce the cost of electricity for residents and enhance the local economy. By incentivizing
on-site electricity generation and storage and thereby decentralizing the creation of energy, the City of San
Mateo also becomes more resilient to grid failures and power shutoffs and helps make the community less
dependent on outside resources.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 63 |

144 of 599


--- page 145 ---
CHAPTER 3

RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy

Since beginning operations in 2016, the county-wide Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) program has been highly
successful in increasing the amount of renewable and carbon-free electricity used by the community. As of 2019,
more than 97 percent of San Mateo’s residents and businesses receive their electricity from PCE. San Mateo can
achieve more GHG reductions with PCE by encouraging the remaining residents and businesses to participate in
the program and by supporting efforts for customers to upgrade to PCE’s ECO 100 service, which provides all
electricity from renewable sources.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:
e Encourage residents and businesses to participate in Peninsula Clean Energy.
e Encourage residents and businesses participating in PCE to opt up to ECO 100.

e Support PCE’s outreach to direct access customers to encourage use of carbon-free electricity.

Co-benefits:
OPE =
Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills

| 64 City of San Mateo July 2023

145 of 599


--- page 146 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences

The addition of renewable energy systems to new residential buildings can often meet (and even exceed) the
energy demand of the home. State and local regulations already require new homes to install solar panels of a
particular size, but homeowners can choose to install larger systems to generate additional power. Existing homes
not subject to this requirement can also benefit from installing renewable energy systems. Extra energy can meet
any additional electricity needs of the home, or can be sold back to the grid, which helps reduce the amount of
energy needed from nonrenewable sources and can help the homeowner finance the project.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:

For each three-year code cycle, adopt reach codes to require residential developments to install
renewable energy systems, including solar photovoltaic or solar water heating, as needed to exceed State
requirements.

Provide education and outreach to residents and contractors on the benefits of pairing battery storage
with solar PV systems.

Explore the feasibility of reducing or eliminating solar permitting fees.

Provide information to property owners about discounts, incentives, and financing programs for
renewable energy systems, including solar bulk purchase programs and financing programs that allow
property owners to incrementally pay for renewable energy systems.

Provide education and outreach to stakeholders on the benefits of retrofitting existing residential
buildings to be zero net energy.

Promote the installation of renewable energy and energy storage systems as part of major home retrofit
projects.

Co-benefits:

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Promotes equity Reduces utility bills

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 65 |

146 of 599


--- page 147 ---
CHAPTER 3

RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings

The addition of distributed-generation renewable energy systems to nonresidential buildings helps reduce the
amount of energy from nonrenewable sources the building requires, and in some cases may exceed the amount
of electricity needed. While San Mateo requires that new nonresidential buildings include renewable energy
systems, this requirement does not apply to existing buildings, which can still take advantage of the benefits
provided by these systems. New nonresidential buildings can also install larger systems than local standards
require, producing an additional amount of renewable energy that can either be used by the building or sold
back to the grid. New construction that is built to include such systems helps reduce GHG emissions and may
save businesses money on utility costs.

GHG reduction (MTCO:ze)

Recommended actions:

e For each three-year code cycle, adopt reach codes to require nonresidential developments to install
renewable energy systems, including solar photovoltaics or solar water heating, as needed to exceed
State requirements.

e Promote financing programs that allow developers, property owners, and tenants to incrementally pay
for renewable energy systems.

e Explore the feasibility of reducing or eliminating solar permitting fees.

e Work with appropriate property owners to identify potential sites for a microgrid demonstration project.
Provide education and outreach to these property owners on the multiple benefits of developing a
microgrid, including reliability, cleaner energy, and cost savings.

e Encourage property owners to pair battery storage systems with solar PV systems.

e Support development of a local rebate program for on-site renewable energy systems.

Co-benefits:

‘7 CPE

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills

| 66 City of San Mateo July 2023

147 of 599


--- page 148 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Energy Efficiency (EE)

Electricity and natural gas are used to heat, cool, and light buildings, as well as to operate appliances and
machinery. This goal seeks to provide opportunities for businesses and residents to conserve energy and
maximize efficiency, which in turn reduces energy costs, supports the local economy, and further reduces GHG
emissions.

EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits

Older homes, especially those built before incorporation of energy efficiency and green building standards in
local and State building codes (generally before 1980), are less energy efficient than newer buildings. Home
retrofit programs address a variety of improvements in existing houses and include upgrades to insulation,
windows, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, lighting, and appliances, and may reduce the
average home's energy use by 33 percent or more. San Mateo residents have already completed a limited
number of retrofits, as discussed in the Existing and Planned Accomplishments section, through programs such
as Energy Upgrade California.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 6,160 7,020 6,790

Recommended actions:

e Establish a time of sale residential energy conservation program that requires an energy audit by a
certified energy professional. Audits would be disclosed to the buyer.

e Educate homeowners, real estate agents, rental property owners, and tenants about the benefits of
residential energy retrofits, the availability of financing options, and how to participate.

e Provide energy retrofit information to project applicants seeking permits for renovation or expansion
work on existing houses.

e Host residential energy outreach events such as evening workshops and local learn-at-lunch sessions,
provide energy retrofit information at community events, and distribute information on residential energy
retrofits online and in public buildings.

e Promote financing programs that allow homeowners, rental property owners, and tenants to
incrementally pay for energy efficiency retrofits.

e Provide funding to support energy efficiency education and low-cost retrofits for low-income households.

e Offer low- or no-cost energy audits to rental property owners who agree to disclose a unit’s energy
efficiency results to tenants.

e Encourage property owners to participate in energy benchmarking efforts.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

148 of 599


--- page 149 ---
e Work with tenant groups and property management companies to identify actions tenants can take
within the bounds of their lease to improve energy efficiency.

e Promote incentives such as direct subsidies and reduced fee permitting to rental property owners who
make energy efficiency improvements to their units beyond any minimum actions required by the
adopted energy code.

e Encourage property owners to consider installing cool roofs when reroofing buildings.

Co-benefits:

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills Saves energy

a a er]

thi

Home energy audits can identify opportunities to reduce electricity and natural gas use through both retrofit activities and low-
or no-cost behavioral changes.

Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (28533)

City of San Mateo July 2023

149 of 599


--- page 150 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits

As with residential buildings, many of San Mateo’s nonresidential buildings have been constructed before the
adoption of modern energy efficient building codes. Energy-efficient retrofits can help the City reduce GHG
emissions and save businesses money. Retrofits to these structures can reduce energy use by approximately 35%
to 45%. Property owners who are substantially remodeling their nonresidential buildings can also bring the
structure up to current energy efficiency codes as part of the remodel, which can also significantly decrease the
buildings’ electricity and natural gas use.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 3,800 8,860 13,380

Recommended actions:

e Develop policy requiring reporting of energy use (ENERGY STAR performance score) by commercial and
multifamily buildings. Apply benchmarking ordinance to smaller commercial and multifamily buildings,
below the minimum size threshold for mandatory benchmarking under AB 802 and require commercial
buildings to receive an energy assessment every five to ten years depending on size.

e Educate property owners and tenants about energy efficiency retrofit programs and financing options.

e Work with property owners to offer green leases for tenants, allowing tenants to specify energy efficiency
improvements to the space or to finance energy efficiency retrofits in exchange for reduced occupancy
fees. Promote a green lease addendum template that can be used by nonresidential property owners to
incorporate green lease language into future leases.

e Support participation in demand response programs.

e Offer low-cost energy audits for business or office parks, including identification of most cost-efficient
savings for weatherization or appliance upgrades.

e Offer reduced fee permitting to project applicants undergoing specifically defined energy retrofit
measures, such as a retrofit to achieve Zero Net Energy in an existing building.

e Promote the San Mateo County Green Business program to help encourage energy efficiency and
sustainable actions in local businesses.

e Encourage property owners to consider installing cool roofs when reroofing buildings.

Co-benefits:

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills Saves energy

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 69 |

150 of 599


--- page 151 ---
The windows in this airport building have been retrofitted to electronically darken in bright sunlight, helping to keep the inside
of the building cool. Advances such as this can be applied to San Mateo office buildings, reducing the energy use for air
conditioning.

Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (54582)

City of San Mateo July 2023

151 of 599


--- page 152 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

EE 3: Residential tree planting

Shade trees provide several benefits, including reducing the urban heat island effect, reducing runoff during
flood events, and providing habitat for wildlife. When properly placed, they can also help keep home interiors
cool, reducing the need for homes to run their air conditioners or other cooling equipment. San Mateo can
promote tree planting to help decrease home cooling demands.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10 Less than 10

Recommended actions:

e Establish a City program to provide free or subsidized shade trees for buildings with eastern, western, or
southern exposure to reduce energy use associated with cooling homes.

e Partner with community organizations and applicable professional associations to support education and
outreach on the benefits and best practices of strategic tree planting to provide shade and cooling.
Develop guidance on the preferred tree types and the recommended approach to selecting locations for
tree plantings that support energy conservation and efficiency.

Co-benefits:
4
FEA
Improves public health Reduces utility bills Saves energy

Street trees can help keep nearby buildings cool, vediding the need for air conditioning during hot days.

Photo by PlaceWorks

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

152 of 599


--- page 153 ---
CHAPTER 3

Municipal Energy Efficiency and Electrification (ME)

The City of San Mateo strives to serve as an example of efficiency and to embody the commitment to reducing
emissions citywide. Measures and actions under this goal save energy and reduce utility bills, which preserves
valuable City resources and provides green building case studies for other developments in the community.

ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings

The California Energy Commission is considering a goal of having all new nonresidential buildings be zero net
energy by 2030. The City can work toward this goal by constructing new municipal facilities to be more energy
efficient than State or local regulations require, including achieving zero net energy in advance of the State's

target.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Supportive Supportive Supportive

Recommended actions:

e Seek grant funding or low- or no-interest loans to implement energy saving efforts and renewable energy
systems at municipal facilities at time of construction or substantial renovation.

Co-benefits:
\g
7 a He
EA
Conserves resources Reduces utility bills Saves energy

City of San Mateo July 2023

153 of 599


--- page 154 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings

While San Mateo has conducted significant retrofits to existing municipal properties, additional opportunities for
reducing energy use exist at City-owned facilities. The Sustainable Solutions Turnkey (SST) program has identified
multiple HVAC and lighting retrofits at several City properties, including the Police Department, City Hall, multiple
fire stations, and many others. This measure goes beyond the SST program (which is already accounted for as a
planned activity) and looks at opportunities for retrofits at additional facilities or for additional retrofits not
covered as part of other programs.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:

e Implement energy efficiency upgrades (including lighting and HVAC systems) at municipal buildings as
needed.

Co-benefits:

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills Saves energy

Although many City buildings have already been retrofitted, there are always opportunities to take advantage of new energy-
saving technologies and practices. These municipal retrofits help reduce the amount of public money spent on utility bills, and
also allow the City to pilot new ways to reduce energy use.

Photo by City of San Mateo

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

154 of 599


--- page 155 ---
CHAPTER 3

ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings

Constructing new buildings or renovating existing ones to receive most or all their energy from electricity, as
opposed to a mix of electricity and natural gas, has significant GHG savings. As the City encourages private
property owners to construct mostly electric or all-electric buildings, it can set an example by constructing its
new buildings and renovating existing spaces to use electricity only. If these all-electric buildings also have
renewable energy and battery storage systems, they can also be protected against power grid failures and
intentional shutoffs.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:

e As feasible, design and build all-electric municipal buildings and facilities, including electric heating,
cooling, and water heating.

e Evaluate existing buildings and facilities to identify opportunities for retrofitting them to be all-electric,
including electric heating, cooling, and water heating.

e During the development and construction of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, also
consider all-electric technology including electric heating, cooling, and water heating.

e Explore the feasibility of establishing microgrids at new or existing municipal facilities to capture the
multiple benefits of microgrids, including reliability, clean energy, and cost savings.

Co-benefits:

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Reduces utility bills

City of San Mateo July 2023

155 of 599


--- page 156 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Clean Transportation Fuels (CF)

The promotion of clean transportation fuels, such as electricity or hydrogen, can ease a transition away from
reliance on vehicles fueled by gasoline or diesel fuel. Providing increased support for vehicles that use these
clean transportation fuels through public and private infrastructure makes it easier for residents who want to
purchase one of these vehicles.

CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure

Widespread availability of electric vehicle (EV) charging stations is critical to ensuring that EV drivers can quickly
and easily charge up their vehicles. This helps reduce both real and perceived barriers to EV adoption, increasing
the rate of EV ownership in the community. A large number of appropriately located EV charging stations can
also encourage EV drivers from other communities to stop in San Mateo, which can provide economic
opportunities. The City can ensure that EV drivers are not challenged to find a charging station at both public
and private facilities. With the passage of the Advanced Clean Trucks rule in 2020, the Advanced Clean Cars Il
rule in 2022 and the Advanced Clean Fleets rule in 2023, state regulations require all sales of new light-duty
vehicles to be zero-emission by 2035 and sales of new medium-duty and heavy-duty vehicles to be zero-emission

by 2036.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 24,420 49,390 69,780

Recommended actions:

e For each three-year code cycle, update reach codes to exceed the state-mandated minimum percentage
of EV parking spaces designed to accommodate the future installation of electric vehicle supply
equipment in new residential and commercial development, including the installation of supply
equipment for heavy-duty EVs at appropriate commercial development.

e Promote incentives to encourage the expansion of EV charging infrastructure in existing public and
private properties, including parking structures, hotels and motels, multi-unit dwellings, and workplaces.

e Partner with other agencies to incentivize property owners to install EV charging stations for light-duty
and heavy-duty vehicles as appropriate.

e Install additional public EV charging stations in desirable, high-volume, and prominent City-owned
locations.

e Encourage the expansion of appropriate light-duty and heavy-duty EV charging infrastructure in existing
buildings.

e Encourage pairing EV charging infrastructure with battery storage systems.

e Explore options to reduce or eliminate permit fees for the installation of EV charging infrastructure.
July 2023 Climate Action Plan

156 of 599


--- page 157 ---
CHAPTER 3

Co-benefits:
\g y
- pp & ©
N
VEN es
Conserves resources Enhances local economy — Improves public health Promotes equity

Dedicated areas for electric vehicle charging at residential complexes and businesses help encourage EV adoption, reducing GHG
emissions from transportation.

Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (26765)

City of San Mateo July 2023

157 of 599


--- page 158 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach

EVs, including plug-in hybrids (PHEVs) are becoming increasingly widespread and cost-effective to California
residents. San Mateo can improve the adoption of EVs among City residents by promoting these vehicles through
media and in-person events. The City can encourage property owners who are not required to install EV chargers
to do so and can publicize the availability of incentives.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 4,910 8,030 12,360

Recommended actions:

e Provide information about the benefits of EVs and PHEVs through the City’s electronic media systems
and at public events, including creating opportunities for public EV/PHEV test drives.

e Conduct educational outreach to homeowners, commercial property owners, and developers about the
benefits of EV charging stations.

e Identify and distribute resources to assist community members seeking to install an EV charging station
on their properties.

e Work with local and regional partners to explore providing additional incentives to community members
who purchase an EV or PHEV.

e Evaluate opportunities to regulate or incentivize transportation network companies (TNCs) to increase
adoption of electric vehicles as regulatory conditions allow.

Co-benefits:
\g y
‘ BR >
N
+
Conserves resources Improves public health Promotes equity

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

158 of 599


--- page 159 ---
CHAPTER 3

CF 3: Clean City fleet

San Mateo can further demonstrate its leadership on GHG reduction by increasing the number of vehicles in the
municipal fleet that use clean transportation fuels. The City has already purchased vehicles that run off
biomethane, a substitute for compressed natural gas (CNG) generated from waste products at the San Mateo
Wastewater Treatment Plant. As EVs become more widely available, the City has more opportunities to replace
its gasoline and diesel-fueled cars and trucks.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:

e Purchase EVs or PHEVs as replacements for gasoline, diesel, or conventional hybrid City fleet vehicles that
have not been converted to compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles, as available and cost-effective.

e Update the Vehicle and Fleet Equipment policy and explore an “Electric Vehicle First” procurement policy.

Co-benefits:
" 2
7 A
Conserves resources Improves public health

Methane is produced as a by-product of treating the community's wastewater. The City collects this methane and processes it to
produce a natural gas substitute called biomethane, which is used to fuel municipal vehicles. The City can expand its use of
biomethane, as well as other clean fuels, to operate its fleet.

Photo by City of San Mateo

City of San Mateo July 2023

159 of 599


--- page 160 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions

Beyond electricity and biomethane, other clean vehicle fuels are available, such as hydrogen and biofuels from
sustainable sources. Although these fuels are available in limited places and quantities, they are likely to become
more widespread in coming years as California seeks to substantially cut GHG emissions from transportation. San
Mateo can encourage adoption of these additional clean vehicle fuels by making it easier for fueling stations that
supply them to locate in the community.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 4,210 16,920 26,360

Recommended actions:

e Support efforts to build fueling stations in San Mateo for other clean fuels, including hydrogen and
sustainably-sourced biofuels, as supported by market conditions.

e Explore ways to reduce vehicle idling in selected areas with large numbers of vehicle drop-offs and pick-
ups, such as schools.

e Explore signal light optimization to reduce vehicle idling at traffic signals.

Co-benefits:
\g ©
‘7 OPEW BR S
N
Conserves resources Enhances localeconomy — Improves public health Promotes equity

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

160 of 599


--- page 161 ---
CHAPTER 3

Sustainable Transportation (ST)

Increasing the number of transportation modes available to San Mateo residents creates a healthier community,
promotes equity, and reduces emissions. By providing individuals with a range of safe, reliable options to get to
work, school, shopping, and other important destinations that are more sustainable than personal vehicles, the
City can ensure that other modes of transportation are a feasible and effective alternative. This reduces
dependence on personal vehicles in San Mateo, improving mobility options for all community members.

ST 1: Bicycle mode share

Bicycles currently make up an estimated 1.4 percent of San Mateo trips, using the approximately 62 miles of
dedicated bike trails and lanes within the community. Efforts to increase this are currently under way, with the
ongoing implementation of the Bicycle Master Plan, which was adopted in 2011 and updated in 2020. These
efforts include dedicated bicycle parking, new bike lanes, and improvements to existing bicycle infrastructure,
along with educational and outreach efforts. Such efforts are supported by the 2015 Sustainable Streets Plan,
which includes standards for complete streets, and the 2019 Green Infrastructure Plan, which supports beneficial
landscaping and other green infrastructure components that can make bicycling a more safe and pleasant

experience.

GHG reduction (MTCOze)

Recommended actions:
e Host bicycle safety and awareness efforts for bicyclists, pedestrians, and drivers.
e Support bike-to-school commutes through the Safe Routes to School program.

e Install bike racks and long-term bike storage lockers in the public right-of-way and at City facilities and
transit facilities.

e Secure funding for design and construction of the infrastructure improvements identified in the updated
Bicycle Master Plan.

Co-benefits:
\g py
7 OPE" o> >
N
el ts
Conserves resources Enhances local economy _ Improves public health Promotes equity

| 80 City of San Mateo July 2023

161 of 599


--- page 162 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

ST 2: Pedestrian mode share

The San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan, adopted in 2012, seeks to
create a _pedestrian-friendly environment throughout the
community to encourage walking and contribute to the
community’s ambitious 2020 mode share target. By focusing new
development in existing areas of higher density rather than low-
density residential areas, San Mateo can support increased
pedestrian activity by locating homes within walking distance of
key facilities such as shops, offices, and schools. Such efforts are fi] / .
supported by the Sustainable Streets Plan and the Green a fecaiaa,! -friendly areas, wich ae. Dawntoon San
Infrastructure Plan which includes standards for complete streets Mateo, encourage people to walk rather than drive.
and pedestrian-friendly landscaping improvements such as low- photo by City of San Mateo

impact development.

GHG reduction (MTCO:2e)

Recommended actions:
e Improve pedestrian safety through education and outreach efforts.
e Support walk-to-school efforts through the Safe Routes to School program.

e Secure funding for design and construction of the infrastructure improvements identified in the adopted
Pedestrian Master Plan and Green Infrastructure Plan.

Co-benefits:

7 OPEW Rs “yp

Conserves resources Enhances local economy —_ Improves public health Promotes equity

July 2023 Climate Action Plan ee

162 of 599


--- page 163 ---
CHAPTER 3

ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility

Micromobility refers to the use of electric scooters, uni-skates, etc. to travel short distances. It is a growing trend
for individuals to own their own personal micromobility devices to connect to transit and job centers. Shared
mobility options, such as a bike share program, allow community members an easy way to make shorter trips
without owning their own devices. People who do not have access to a bike, scooter, or other mobility device of
their own can rent one from various private shared mobility operators. In 2019, San Mateo adopted a Shared
Mobility Permit Program, establishing regulations that would allow these companies to begin operating in the
community. Providing shared mobility devices helps make more sustainable transportation modes available to
more people while ensuring that shared mobility companies operate in a safe and responsible manner.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Supportive Supportive Supportive

Recommended actions:

e Identify operators for a shared mobility program to provide first- and last-mile connections for residents
and commuters.

e Work closely with shared mobility operator(s) to monitor program and encourage ridership.

e Support infrastructure improvements that encourage the use of personal micromobility devices in
alignment with the updated Bicycle Master Plan.

Co-benefits:

7 FP & o

Conserves resources Enhances local economy Improves public health Promotes equity

| =] City of San Mateo July 2023

163 of 599


--- page 164 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

ST 4: Public transit service

Multiple public transit providers operate in San Mateo, including
the county-wide SamTrans bus network, the Caltrain commuter
rail line between San Francisco and San Jose/Gilroy, and AC
Transit’s bus connections to Hayward and Castro Valley. In
partnership with these regional service providers, San Mateo can
support efforts to increase the frequency and speed of transit
service, improve the quality of public transit infrastructure, and
support additional service as needed. Educational and incentive

programs can also encourage people to increasingly use public Improvements to San Mateo’s public transit service
transit, helping to get cars off the road and reducing congestion help reduce congestion as well as community GHG

while simultaneously decreasing GHG emissions. emissions.
Photo by PlaceWorks
GHG reduction (MTCOze) 3,610 5,660 6,910

Recommended actions:
e Support the development of new rapid bus transit routes.
e Work with transit providers to improve the safety and comfort at transit stops.
e Work with Caltrain to improve the frequency of Caltrain services, particularly to the Hayward Park station.

e In partnership with transit providers, explore the feasibility of transit priority signals and other
infrastructure improvements to speed up transit service.

e Increase ridership for public transit by enhancing pedestrian and bicycle access to high-quality transit and
encourage incentive programs to decrease reliance on single-occupancy vehicles.

Co-benefits:
We >
‘7 OPEW) A S
N
UE a
Conserves resources Enhances localeconomy — Improves public health Promotes equity

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | a3 |

164 of 599


--- page 165 ---
CHAPTER 3

ST 5: Commuter programs

San Mateo’s efforts to encourage walking, bicycling, and public transit use can work in concert with other transit
services, such as private shuttles and vanpools, to reduce vehicle trips associated with employee commutes.
Existing businesses can encourage employees to adopt more sustainable commute options, including increased
use of telecommuting, to reduce GHG emissions and congestion in the community. San Mateo’s existing
Transportation Demand Management program can offer a model for how to reduce commute-related trips for
existing businesses.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10

Recommended actions:

e Conduct an outreach campaign to San Mateo residents and employees about available shuttle and
vanpool options to support increased use of these existing programs.

e Work with regional partners and employers to offer micro-transit services to provide first-mile and last-
mile connections with key job and housing centers.

e Provide outreach for carpool incentive programs to San Mateo residents and employees.
e Encourage existing employers to participate in Transportation Demand Management efforts.

e Support efforts by employers to provide telecommuting as a viable option for appropriate employees.

7 As “ny

Conserves resources Improves public health Promotes equity

Co-benefits:

| 4 City of San Mateo July 2023

165 of 599


--- page 166 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

ST 6: Transportation Demand Management

Transportation Demand Management (TDM) is a suite of strategies intended to reduce the amount of single-
occupancy vehicle trips generated and vehicle miles traveled, particularly during peak commute times. TDM can
include increased use of public transit, non-motorized transportation, carpools and ridesharing, and
telecommuting, among many others. In San Mateo, new developments in the Hillsdale and Hayward Park transit-
oriented development areas are required to reduce the number of trips they generate. The City is looking to
establish similar requirements for significant new developments in the downtown area and can also encourage
participation in TDM programs for developments in other parts of the communities. Developments implementing
TDM measures generally have the freedom to choose the strategies that suit their needs.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 2,010 7,950 13,410

Recommended actions:

e Require new developments of at least six multi-family units and/or 10,000 square feet of nonresidential
space to implement a suite of TDM strategies to comply with the appropriate trip reduction target
identified in applicable area plans.

e Require developments of at least 20 multi-family units and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential space
undergoing additions or alterations (as defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.06.012) to
implement TDM strategies consistent with the targets in relevant area plans.

e Educate developers working on projects in San Mateo not located in a TDM area about ways to reduce
vehicle miles traveled and the resultant benefits.

e Publicize developments and businesses with successful TDM programs.

e Work with regional partners to fund successful TDM strategies for existing developments that can be
implemented with little or no cost to property owners.

Co-benefits:
\g »
‘7 BR >
Xs
<s
Conserves resources Improves public health Promotes equity

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | a5 |

166 of 599


--- page 167 ---
CHAPTER 3

ST 7: Transit-oriented developments

Transit-oriented developments (TODs) are development projects located in areas close to high-quality transit
services, such as commuter rail stations or bus stops with rapid and frequent service and are designed to
encourage community members living and working in these projects to use public transit as an alternative to
driving. Many TODs in San Mateo are in areas already covered by TDM requirements that also support reduced
vehicle use. The City can also encourage TODs in other parts of the community, further decreasing congestion
on local roads and highways.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 10,200 18,920 23,700

Recommended actions:

e Increase transit-oriented developments along El Camino Real, within one-half mile of Caltrain stations,
and in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development and Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas.

Co-benefits:

\g >
‘7 PEW By
Conserves resources Enhances local economy Improves public health

—a

i ap
ny of their trips.

Transit-oriented developments encourage community members to use public transit for ma

Photo by City of San Mateo

| 86 City of San Mateo July 2023

167 of 599


--- page 168 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Solid Waste (SW)

Efforts to divert waste away from landfills not only reduce emissions, but also provide residents with an
opportunity to focus on comprehensive sustainability and exercising awareness of individual impact on the
environment, including minimizing waste generation and encouraging source reduction. These measures build
on the City of San Mateo’s active leadership to date reducing waste through innovative programs.

SW 1: Composting program

Decomposing landfill waste emits methane, which is a potent GHG. Diverting compostable materials from
traditional waste streams may reduce these emissions. San Mateo and a number of other surrounding
communities instituted a curbside composting program in 2011 in conjunction with the local waste hauler. This
voluntary program allows residents and businesses to deposit food scraps into a green bin to be composted and
turned into fertilizer. Previously, this material would have gone to the landfill, producing GHGs as it decomposed.
Virtually all of San Mateo’s single-family households currently participate in the program, along with some multi-
family households and businesses. Increasing the participation rate of this program can decrease GHG emissions
and help educate residents about waste generation.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 1,030 1,710 1,850

Recommended actions:

e Provide educational outreach materials to multifamily residents about urging HOA/property managers to
support composting programs.

e Work with Recology San Mateo County to include information about adding composting services in
monthly garbage and recycling bills to existing BIZSMART customers.

e Work with food service facilities to understand barriers to using existing composting programs. Use this
clearer perception of roadblocks to mitigate concerns and target incentives more specifically at high
food-waste facilities.

e Work with multifamily and commercial property owners to minimize any potential health or cleanliness
impacts associated with compost collection bins.

e Explore alternative off-site collection or sorting methods to capture compostable materials from
multifamily units.

e Continue to provide a diversion discount to participating commercial and multifamily users to properly
incentivize and fully use compost services.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

168 of 599


--- page 169 ---
Co-benefits:

Conserves resources

yyy 01481

ney

Food waste and other organics is one of the most common materials in California’s trash. Composting programs help keep this
waste out of landfills, reducing GHG emissions and providing useful, nutrient-rich soil as a co-benefit.

Photo by U.S. EPA

City of San Mateo July 2023

169 of 599


--- page 170 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

SW 2: Expanded recycling service

Beyond food waste and other organics, San Mateo residents can recycle many other types of materials. However,
if materials are not placed in the correct bin, they may be accidentally landfilled, leading to increased GHG
emissions. Proper sorting and other educational efforts can ensure that recyclable materials end up where they
are supposed to. The City’s waste hauler may also be able to accept additional types of materials for recycling at
a future time, depending on market conditions.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 6,070 7,130 8,820

Recommended actions:

e Allow expanded recycling programs to accommodate additional material types as economic conditions
allow.

e Improve educational efforts around proper waste sorting.

Co-benefits:
&

Conserves resources

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | a9 |

170 of 599


--- page 171 ---
CHAPTER 3

SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction

While it is important to sort waste properly and use recyclable/compostable products whenever possible, it is
also helpful for community members to minimize the amount of materials that they throw away at all, regardless
of the bin it ends up in. These efforts to decrease the overall amount of waste produced in the community not
only decrease GHG emissions but can help keep harmful materials out of the environment and provide an
opportunity for increased community education.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 2,080 4,050 5,090

Recommended actions:
e Work with partners to establish a source reduction program.
e Work with partners to establish a materials reuse program.
e Explore a ban on specific types of single-use or disposable plastics.

e Work with waste haulers and the South Bayside Waste Management Authority to minimize recycling
contamination.

e Continue to promote the Team Up to Clean Up program.

e Encourage local restaurants to partner with food rescue organizations to divert food that would otherwise
be thrown away to non-profit organizations for distribution to those in need.

Co-benefit:

‘7 CPE

Conserves resources Enhances local economy

| 90 City of San Mateo July 2023

171 of 599


--- page 172 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Water and Wastewater (WW)

Increasing the efficiency of water usage reduces emissions and helps conserve valuable resources, saving money
for the City and its residents, reducing dependence on outside resources, and increasing resilience to water
shortages.

WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings

Older buildings often have opportunities to improve water efficiency by replacing old fixtures (sinks,
showerheads, toilets, etc.). Especially in periods of drought, optimizing indoor water efficiency may greatly reduce
GHG emissions from conveyance and treatment of water. New buildings are required to use water-efficient
fixtures under State law. These buildings can incorporate fixtures that exceed California standards to achieve
additional water use reductions.

GHG reduction (MTCO2e)

Recommended actions:
e Provide educational materials and outreach to encourage indoor water conservation.

e Work with Cal Water and Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) to promote rebate
offerings for high efficiency toilets, washing machines, rain barrels, and other water-conserving
appliances.

e Work with Cal Water to offer low-cost or free water audits to businesses and homeowners. Explore ways
to encourage installation of greywater systems in existing buildings, especially as part of significant
retrofits.

Co-benefits:

My)
‘7 sad
Conserves resources Reduces utility bills

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 91 |

172 of 599


--- page 173 ---
CHAPTER 3

WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping

Treating and conveying water requires large amounts of energy. Minimizing the amount of water used for
nonessential applications, such as landscaping and turf grass, helps reduce GHG expenditures and increases
resiliency in periods of drought.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10

Recommended actions:
e Provide educational materials to the community about drought-tolerant landscaping.
e Host educational workshops on drought-tolerant and native landscaping

e Partner with Cal Water and/or BAWSCA to host a trade-in program for inefficient sprinklers for more
efficient drip irrigation systems.

e Retrofit City-owned landscapes to increase the amount of drought-resistant and/or native plant

landscaping.
Co-benefits:
A)
‘7 a
Conserves resources Reduces utility bills

al ot

Water-efficient landscaping is an increasingly common choice throughout San Mateo to reduce water use and improve resilience
to drought conditions.

Photos by City of San Mateo

eon City of San Mateo July 2023

173 of 599


--- page 174 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction

The California Building Standards Code already requires new buildings to be highly water efficient. The City can
encourage new buildings to go beyond these requirements to meet the voluntary standards in the California
Green Building Code, improving community-wide water efficiency. San Mateo can also promote the availability
of greywater systems, allowing water to be reused in a safe and hygienic way to further improve water efficiency.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10

Recommended actions:

e Adopt a reach code to require new developments to meet the voluntary indoor and outdoor water
efficiency standards in the California Green Building Standards Code.

e Encourage developers to install greywater systems in new buildings at time of construction.

Conserves resources

Co-benefits:

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 93 |

174 of 599


--- page 175 ---
CHAPTER 3

Off-Road Equipment (OR)

Shifting to alternative fuel equipment across the community and promotes healthier air for all residents due to
the reduction in gasoline or diesel fumes. This is especially important for sensitive populations such as children,
the elderly, and individuals with chronic respiratory disease.

OR 1: Clean fuel lawn and garden equipment

Most lawn and garden equipment, such as lawn mowers, leaf blowers, chippers, etc., are fueled by gasoline or
diesel. Many manufacturers produce hybrid and electric models, which use less fuel compared to a conventional
model (or none at all). These models produce less pollution and may also be quieter to operate than gasoline or
diesel equipment.

GHG reduction (MTCOze) 3,660 7,130 9,890

Recommended actions:

e Buy hybrid and alternative fuel models when purchasing new City-owned landscaping equipment, as
feasible.

e Conduct education campaigns and outreach events to property owners and landscaping companies
about the availability of hybrid and alternative fuel landscaping equipment, including electric equipment,
and available incentives such as the BAAQMD Lawn Mower Exchange.

Co-benefits:

r @
7 A
Conserves resources Improves public health

| 94 City of San Mateo July 2023

175 of 599


--- page 176 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET

Summary of Total GHG Emissions

Collectively, the measures in this chapter achieve substantial GHG reductions for the years 2030, 2040, and 2045.
Table 13 shows the reductions achieved by topic, and Figure 8 shows these reductions relative to San Mateo’s

community-wide emissions.

Table 13: GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2030-2045 (MTCOze)

Building electrification -123,280 -223,060 -268,510
Renewable energy -290 -420 0
Energy efficiency -9 960 -15,880 -20,170
Municipal energy efficiency and electrification -140 -230 = 10
Clean fuels -33,670 -74,540 -108,770
Sustainable transportation -16,010 -32,890 -44,490
Solid waste -9,180 -13,490 -16,260
Water and wastewater -170 -320 -380
Off-road equipment -3,660 -7,130 -9, 890
Total -196,360 -367,960 -468,780

Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.

July 2023

Climate Action Plan | 95 |

176 of 599


--- page 177 ---
CHAPTER 3

Figure 8: San Mateo GHG Emissions with Reduction Measures, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e)

300,000

700,000

600,000

500,000

400,000

300,000

200,000

100,000

2030 2040 2050

e==== Forecasted emissions e=== Existing and planned efforts o==== CAP measures

In total, this CAP is projected to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions to 311,990 MTCOze (45 percent below 1990
levels) by 2030, 162,530 MTCOze by 2040 (71 percent below 1990 levels), and 80,550 MTCOze (86 percent below
1990 levels) by 2045. These reductions allow San Mateo to meet its GHG reduction targets of 40 percent below
1990 levels (339,880 MTCOze) by 2030, and 85 percent below 1990 levels (84,970 MTCOze) by 2045.

It is likely that there will be new policies and regulations, technologies, personal and economic behaviors and
preferences, and other factors that emerge in coming years. These factors cannot be accurately forecasted in this
CAP, but they will likely be able to reduce GHG emissions beyond the level identified here. Future updates to the
CAP will be able to better assess the GHG emission reductions from these factors and include them as part of
San Mateo’s GHG reduction strategy as appropriate. Future revisions to the CAP may include more stringent GHG
reduction targets as they are feasible and appropriate.

| 96 City of San Mateo July 2023

177 of 599


--- page 178 ---
AUTONOMOUS
VEHICLE TESTIN
GROUND |

Technologies such as autonomous vehicles have the potential to significantly affect future GHG emissions, but the full effect of
this and other emerging technologies cannot be accurately forecasted at this time.Photo by PlaceWorks

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

178 of 599


--- page 179 ---
Chapter 4

Implementation

IMPLEMENTING THE CLIMATE ACTION PLAN

To ensure the success of the CAP, the City of San Mateo will integrate the goals and strategies of this plan into
other local and regional plans, and implement the programs and activities identified herein. As the City moves
forward with updating other planning documents such as the General Plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code, or
specific plans, staff will ensure that these documents support and are consistent with the CAP.

Implementing the CAP will require City leadership to execute these measures and report progress. This plan
identifies a work plan that includes responsible departments, time frames, and relative costs associated with each
measure. Staff will monitor progress using an implementation and monitoring tool on an annual basis and will
provide an annual update to City decision-makers. The measures in this CAP are accompanied by a list of
recommended actions, selected by City staff, members of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and
members of the public. The list of recommended actions represents suggested means of achieving the measure;
however, these actions are not a prescriptive path to implementation. Furthermore, not all of the listed actions
may be necessary for the City to achieve its target. Due to ongoing changes in technology and regulations, and
the emergence of new best practices and funding opportunities, this approach enables the City to adapt and
leverage new opportunities or partnerships without being constrained by a specific implementation pathway.
The City’s sustainability program manager will serve as an ongoing advisor for CAP implementation. As part of
annual progress reports, the sustainability program manager and City staff will evaluate the effectiveness of each
measure to ensure that anticipated emissions reductions are occurring. If reductions do not occur as expected,
the City can modify and add additional measures to the CAP to ensure the reduction target is achieved.



--- page 180 ---
IMPLEMENTATION

The following programs are designed to guide San Mateo in successfully implementing the CAP.

IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES

Implementation Measure 1: Monitor and report progress toward Climate Action Plan target

achievement on an annual basis.

Actions to support Implementation Measure 1:

Assign responsibility for facilitating and supporting CAP implementation to the City’s sustainability
program manager.

Identify key staff from each department responsible for supporting the sustainability program manager
with information and updates for annual reporting and monitoring.

Continue to involve the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission or other advisory bodies in
reviewing and recommending CAP action items.

Prepare an annual progress report on implementation of the recommended GHG reduction measures for
review and consideration by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council. When
information is available, provide updates on estimated GHG emissions reductions and current GHG
emissions levels.

Use the CAP implementation and monitoring tool to track GHG benefits from CAP implementation and
identify progress toward the CAP reduction target.

Implementation Measure 2: Continue collaborative partnerships with agencies and community

groups that support Climate Action Plan implementation.

Action to support Implementation Measure 2:

Continue formal membership and participate in local and regional organizations that provide tools and
support for energy efficiency, energy conservation, GHG emissions reductions, adaptation, public
information, and implementation of this Plan.

Participate as a member of the Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite (RICAPS) climate
action planning effort to monitor available resources, programs, and funding to leverage with City CAP
efforts.

At the direction of the City Council, commit to formal membership through joint powers authorities or
other partnerships to implement high priority measures from the CAP.

Provide policy input to partner agencies (e.g., League of Cities) on policy barriers that need to be
addressed at the state level.

May 2023 2020 Climate Action Plan | 99 |

180 of 599


--- page 181 ---
CHAPTER 4

Implementation Measure 3: Secure necessary funding to implement the Climate Action Plan.

Actions to support Implementation Measure 3:

e Identify funding sources and levels for reduction measures as part of annual reporting.

e Include emissions reduction measures in department work plans, the capital improvement program, and
other plans as appropriate.

e Pursue local, regional, State, and federal grants to support implementation.
e Explore dedicated funding sources for CAP implementation.
e Explore opportunities to allocate a portion of revenues from revenue-generating measures to CAP

allocation.

Implementation Measure 4: Continue to update the baseline emissions inventory and Climate
Action Plan every five years.

Actions to support Implementation Measure 4:

e Prepare a 2021 emissions inventory no later than 2024.
e Update the CAP no later than 2025 to incorporate new technology, practices, and other options to further
reduce emissions.
WorK PLAN

The work plan in Table 14 contains information to support staff and community implementation of the measures
to effectively integrate them into budgets, the capital improvement program, and other programs and projects.
Information about the sources of data to monitor implementation of each measure Is given in Appendix 2. The
measures of success included in Table 14 are defined as follows:

Code: The abbreviation that is used to refer to the measure in the CAP and all corresponding workbooks.

Measure: The language used to guide actions needed for reductions.

GHG Reductions (MTCOze): Amount of GHG emissions reduced by 2020, 2030, and 2050.

City Staff Time: The estimated cost to the City (in staff hours) to complete implementation of the measure,
ranked as follows:

e Low (less than 80 hours)
e Medium (80-500 hours)
e High (more than 500 hours)

| 100 City of San Mateo May 2023

181 of 599


--- page 182 ---
IMPLEMENTATION

Time Frame: The year by which a measure should be effective by year’s end. The exact status of a measure
will vary based on its actions, and many measures will be ongoing through and beyond 2030. An effective
measure is one that will be actively on track to achieve its targeted GHG emissions reductions, support
adaptation to climate change effects, or achieve long-term resilience. For a measure to be effective, the
necessary programs and efforts should be active, and any infrastructure or other capital improvements should
be in place. The effective year is not the end year, as many of the measures are programs that are intended
to remain in effect for the foreseeable future, and so they do not have end dates. Time frames for effectively
setting up the measures are described as follows:

e Immediate (by 2024)

e Near-Term (by 2025)

e Mid-Term (by 2027)

e Long-Term (by 2030)

Lead Department: The lead City department tasked with implementing the measure.

May 2023 2020 Climate Action Plan | 101 |

182 of 599


--- page 183 ---
€z0z Aew

uoneaiay
pue syed ‘A1HO

s Jabeuew AID
juaudojaneq
AyuNWWwoOd ‘ad14O
s Jabeuey AyD

juawdojaneq
AyunWwod ‘2140
s Jabeuey AD

juaudojanaq
AyuNWWOd ‘a1HO
s Jabeuey AyD

juaudojanaq
AyuNWWwod ‘2140
s Jabeuey AD

BIHO

s Jabeuew AiID
juawdojanaq
AyuNWWwod ‘a1HO
s Jabeueyp AID

juaudojareq
AyuNWWwod ‘a14O
s Jabeuey AyD

(s)}uawWyedag

peey

W18}-PlIN

WJa}-JeaN

WJ9}-JeaN

9} e/pauuuy|

a} eI PauUUy|

a}elpauUUy|

WJa}-JeaN

WJ9j-JeoN

MO}

YBIH

YBIH

wnIpa|

WINIpa\|

MO}

YBIH

WInIpa|

OL- uey} ssoq

O8E'EL-

062'9-

092'L22-

OS2'Lt-

(®¢OD.LIN)
uolpnpay

DHD Sv0z

OL- yey} sseq

098'8-

0Z0'L-

O9l-

OZ i=

OL9'V8L-

OSr'8E-

(20D .LIN)
uolnpey

DHD 002

OL- ueyy sseq

008'€-

091L'9-

O9l-

OL7'zOL-

OL0'L¢-

(2205 .LIN)
uolnpay

DSHS 0£02

Huljuejd 3a} jeluapisay

syyosjes Adualoiyya ABsaua jeljuapisasu0N

s}youjas Adualdija ABsaua jeuapisay

sbulpying jeljuapiseiuou Hulsixe
pue mau JO} swaysks Abjaua ajqemauay

saduapisa Bulysixe
pue mau Jo} swaysks ABsjaua ajqemauay

ABsauq uea|> ejnsuluad

sbuipying Buisixe 314399a)8-|1V

UOININIJSUOD MU dI{D9|9-||V

ue} 4OM UOHe}UaWa|dU| dD *HL FIGeL

V daldVH2)

€ 44

Gd4

L 44

€ 4d

edd

L 4’

cd

L 4d

183 of 599


--- page 184 ---
| cor | UE]d UO! BJEW!|D OZOZ

SILOM F119Nd
‘yuaudojaraq
Ayunwiwo7

S>IOM F!GNd
‘yuaudojanaq
AYUNWWOD ‘210

s Jabeuep AyD
SHIOM I!IGNd
juaudojareq

AYUNWWOD ‘2d1HO
s Jabeuey AyD

SIOM F!IQNd
‘yuaudojaraq
AYUuNWWOD ‘AIO
s JaBeueyw AyD

SIOM
DNQNd ‘BYO
s Jabeuey AyD

SIOM
DNNQNd ‘PWYO

s Jabeuey AyD
SJOM

DNQNd ‘BYO
s Jabeuey AyD

(s)}uUawzedag

peey

NOILVLNAWATdW|

W18}-PlIN

W43}-6u07

WJ21-JeaN

a}e!pawuu|

ayelpawuu|

W19}-6u07

WJ9}-JeoN

WJd}-pll|

WwnIpa

Wunipayy|

MO}

YBIH

YBIH

wnipay\|

wuinipay\|

WNnIpa|

O8L-

09€'9¢-

OLe-

O9€'CL-

082'69-

OLe-

aansoddns

(2705 .LIN)
uolnpay

DHS Sv0z

OzI-

026'9L-

00¢-

O€0'8-

06€'6r-

00¢-

aaiwoddns

(20D LIN)
uolnpeay

DHS 002

OLe'r-

OEL-

OL6'7-

Ocr've-

OEL-

OL-

aniwoddns

(20D LIN)
uoljonpey

DHS 0£02

aueys apow ajdAnIg

janj uea]>

39a} AyD uea|D

yoeadjno pue uoleonpea g]I1YaA I1Da]J

aunjonuysesjul BulBseyd ajdiyad 314399/9

sbuipying jedisiunw 311399)8-||\V

sbuipling
jedisiunw 6Burysixa ye Aduainyya A6sau3

sbuipying
jediniunuu mau 10} Aduaioyya A6sauyq

€z0z Aew

L 1S

vdD

ta)

¢42

Ld)

€ IW

c AW

L AW

184 of 599


--- page 185 ---
€z0z Aew

SIOM
DNQNd ‘SYO
s Jabeuey AiID

SIIOM F1QNd

SIIOM 1GNd

juaudojaraq
Ayunwwo,

SHIOM I1QNd
‘juawdojareq
Aywunuiwo>

SIOM F!IQNd
‘yuaudojaraq
AYUuNWWOD ‘AIO
s JaBeueyw AyD

SIOM
DNQNd ‘BYO
s Jabeuey AyD

SIOM
DNNQNd ‘PWYO

s Jabeuey AyD
SIOM I11GNd
‘yuaudojanaq
Ayunwwo7,

(s)}uUawzedag

peey

WJ2]-JeaN

WJ9}-JeaN

a}elpauiuy|

WJ2}-JeaN

a}e!pawuu|

W181-PllA|

WJ2]-JeaN

WJ9}-JeoN

WJa}-1eaN

WnIpay\|

YBIH
YBIH

MO]

Wunipayy|

YBIH

wnipay\|

MO}

MO}

06S'S-

028'8-
0S8'L-

OOL'E?-

OLV'EL-

O9L-

0L6'9-

aanioddns

OEL-

(2705 .LIN)
uolnpay

DHS Sv0z

0SO0'r-

fle
OZ

026'8L-

0S6'L-

099'¢-

aatwoddns

OcL-

(20D LIN)
uolnpeay

DHS 002

080'2-

020'9-
O€0'L-

002'0L-

OLO'2-

OL9'€-

aAtoddns

OLL-

(20D LIN)
uoljonpey

DHS 0£02

UOlNPesl BdINOS PUP SSOUBIEME 9}Se/\\

adiAjas BuljaAda1 papuedxy

weiboid Buysodwo7

jualudoyjanap payuao-}isuel |

juawabeue puewaq uoneyodsues)

sweibod sa}NWWo>

SDIAIAS HSUeI} DIIGNd

Ayjiqow paiseys pue AyyIqowodi|\

aleys apow uel\sapead

V daldVH2)

€ MS

¢ MS
L MS

£15

915

Sls

vis

eis

eds

185 of 599


--- page 186 ---
| so | Ueld UO! 3JEWI|D OZOZ

uonealay
pue seq ‘IHWO  Wie}-plW) wipes! 068'6- O€L'L- 099'€-
s Jabeueyy AiID
Haden WJ8}-p! uunipa
Aqunwiwo5 PIN IpeAN O¢- OL 0
SIOM IGN wWa}-Jean MO] (Q|- UeY}SSe] OL- Ue Sse] OL- UeY}Sseq
SIOM IQNd = UWWe}-pIN) WNIpe| OIE- OOE- OLI-

(220 .LIN) (20D LIN) (®20D.LIN)
uolonpey uononpey uo npey

(s)}uUawzedag owel4

peey oui
DH Sv0zZ | DHDOVOZ | DHD 0E0Z

NOILVLNAIS 1d

juawdinba
uapieb pue ume jan} aaneusayVy

uol}INIysUOD MaU Ul AdUAITILJe Jae

Buidedspue| JUaIdJo-a}e\\

sbuiping
Hulysixa 10} S}JOijas ADUaIDIJJa Jaye

€z0z Aew

L YO

€ MM

c¢ MM

L MM

186 of 599


--- page 187 ---
City of

~~ San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Glossary

Activity: Any action that directly or indirectly results in GHG emissions. Examples include electricity use, vehicle
use, and solid waste disposal. Activity data are a discrete measure of how much of an activity occurred in San
Mateo in a certain year (e.g., how much electricity was used in 2015). The measurement unit of activity data varies
depending on the activity.

Assembly Bill (AB) 32, California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006: Establishes a comprehensive
program of regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve real, quantifiable, cost-effective reductions of
greenhouse gases (GHG) for the State of California. AB 32 designates the California Air Resources Board as the
responsible agency for monitoring and reducing statewide GHG emissions to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by
2020.

Assembly Bill (AB) 1279, California Climate Crisis Act of 2022: Revises the GHG targets established in AB 32
and declares the policy of the state both to achieve net-zero GHG emissions as soon as possible, but no later
than 2045, and achieve and maintain net negative GHG emissions thereafter, and to ensure that by 2045,
statewide human-caused GHG emissions are reduced to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels.

Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG): The regional planning agency for the nine counties and 101
incorporated cities in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Baseline year: The year against which future changes are measured. Many communities in California use a
baseline year of 2005 through 2008 for consistency with AB 32; the San Mateo inventory uses a baseline year of
2005.



--- page 188 ---
GLOSSARY

Building electrification: Replacing some or all of a building's natural gas-powered appliances or machinery with
models that run on electricity. Since electricity releases much fewer GHGs (and in some cases no GHGs at all),
there is a significant GHG reduction benefit. Building electrification is also called “fuel switching”.

California Air Resources Board (CARB): A division of the California Environmental Protection Agency charged
with protecting public health, welfare, and ecological resources through the reduction of air pollutants.

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA): A State law requiring State and local agencies to regulate
activities with consideration for environmental protection. If a proposed activity has the potential for a significant
adverse environmental impact, an environmental impact report (EIR) must be prepared and certified as to its
adequacy before action can be taken on the proposed project. General plans require the preparation of a
program EIR.

California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen, Title 24 Part 11): The California Green Building
Standards Code, commonly referred to as the CALGreen Code, is a statewide mandatory construction code that
was developed and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission and the Department of Housing
and Community Development. The CALGreen standards require new residential and commercial buildings to
comply with mandatory measures under the topics of planning and design, energy efficiency, water efficiency
and conservation, material conservation and resource efficiency, and environmental quality. CALGreen also
provides voluntary tiers and measures that local governments may adopt that encourage or require additional
measures in the five green building topics.

Carbon dioxide (COz2): A colorless, odorless gas that occurs naturally in the earth’s atmosphere. Significant
quantities are also emitted into the air by fossil fuel combustion.

Carbon dioxide equivalent (COze): A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse
gases based on their global warming potential (GWP). The carbon dioxide equivalent for a gas is derived by
multiplying the tons of the gas by the associated GWP.

Clean Car Fuel Standards (AB 1493, Pavley): Signed into law in 2002 and commonly referred to as Pavley
standards. Requires carmakers to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from new passenger cars and light
trucks beginning in 2011. An updated set of standards, called the Advanced Clean Car Standards, took effect in
2016 and requires further GHG reductions from new vehicles. A further set of standards, called the Advanced
Clean Car Il Standards, will take effect in 2026 and will lead to all new light-duty vehicles being zero-emission
starting in 2035.

Climate Action Plan (CAP): Strategic plans that establish policies and programs for reducing (or mitigating) a
community's greenhouse gas emissions.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 107

188 of 599


--- page 189 ---
GLOSSARY

Climate change: The term “climate change” is sometimes used to refer to all forms of climatic inconsistency, but
because the earth's climate is never static, the term is more properly used to imply a significant change from one
climatic condition to another.

Co-benefit: An additional benefit occurring from the implementation of a greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction
measure that is not directly related to reducing GHG emissions.

Complete streets: Complete streets policies ensure that transportation planners and engineers consistently
design and operate the entire roadway with all potential users in mind. This includes private vehicles, bicyclists,
public transportation vehicles and riders, and pedestrians of all ages and abilities.

Emissions factor: A number that describes the amount of greenhouse gases (GHG) released per unit of a certain
activity (e.g., GHGs per unit of natural gas used). Factors are provided by utility companies, State agencies, and
guidance documents.

Energy conservation: Reducing energy waste, such as turning off lights, heating, and motors when not needed.

Energy efficiency: Doing the same or more work with less energy, such as replacing incandescent light bulbs
with compact fluorescent light bulbs or buying an Energy Star appliance to use less energy for the same or
greater output.

Energy efficiency standards (Title 24 Part 6): California's energy efficiency standards, also called the California
Energy Code (Part 6 of Title 24, the California Building Standards Code), were first adopted in 1978 and
established minimum energy efficiency standards for residential and nonresidential buildings. These standards
are updated every few years by providing more stringent energy budgets for new buildings to reduce California's
energy consumption, eventually working toward a zero-net energy standard for new construction.

Energy Star: A joint program of the US Environmental Protection Agency and the US Department of Energy to
provide consumers with information and incentives to purchase the most energy efficient products available.

Environmental Impact Report (EIR): A report required by the California Environmental Quality Act that assesses
all the environmental characteristics of an area and determines what effects or impacts will result if the area is
altered or disturbed by a proposed action or project. See California Environmental Quality Act.

Global warming potential (GWP): An index used to translate the level of emissions of various gases into a
common measure to compare the relative potency of different gases without directly calculating the changes in
atmospheric concentrations. Greenhouse gases are expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalent. Global
warming potentials are expressed in terms relative to carbon dioxide, which has a global warming potential of 1.

| 108 City of San Mateo May 2023

189 of 599


--- page 190 ---
GLOSSARY

Green building: Sustainable or “green” building is a holistic approach to design, construction, and demolition
that minimizes the building's impact on the environment, the occupants, and the community. See the California
Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen) for green building regulations in California.

Greenhouse gas/gases (GHG): Gases that cause heat to be trapped in the atmosphere, warming the earth. GHGs
are necessary to keep the earth warm but increasing concentrations of these gases are implicated in global
climate change. GHGs include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons,
sulfur hexafluoride, and nitrogen trifluoride. The majority of GHGs come from natural sources, although human
activity is also a major contributor.

Greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory: Provides estimates of the amount of GHGs emitted to and removed from
the atmosphere by human activities. A city or county that conducts an inventory looks at both community
emissions sources and emissions from government operations. A base year is chosen and used to gather all data
from that year. Inventories include data collection from such things as vehicle miles traveled, energy usage from
electricity and gas, and waste.

Greywater: Wastewater collected from showers, bathtubs, dishwashers, bathroom sinks, and clothes washing
machines that is reused on-site for irrigation and other non-potable (i.e., non-drinkable) purposes.

Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO): A federally funded transportation planning organization
comprising representatives from local government agencies and transportation authorities.

Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC): The MPO for the nine-county San Francisco Bay Area. It is
responsible for securing and distributing funding for transportation planning and construction projects, working
with local and regional public transit providers to improve the effectiveness of service, and encouraging
development within existing urbanized areas to minimize the loss of agriculture and open space. It also operates
the region's seven state-owned toll bridges and the Clipper transit fare card.

Micromobility: A mode of transportation that uses lightweight, usually powered, devices, such as electric
scooters, electric-assist bicycles, and electric skateboards.

Mixed-fuel building: A building that uses multiple sources of energy to operate applies and devices. In most of
California, including San Mateo, this refers to buildings that use both electricity and natural gas.

Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE): A community choice aggregation program run by the local governments of San
Mateo County to provide electricity to San Mateo County community members. PCE purchases electricity on
behalf of its customers and distributes it through existing power lines owned by PG&E. It is the default electricity
supplier for San Mateo County.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 109 |

190 of 599


--- page 191 ---
GLOSSARY

Quantification: The process of determining the amount of greenhouse gas emissions reduced by each measure.

Recycled water: Wastewater from tubs, toilets, and sinks inside homes and offices that is cleaned through a
treatment process, producing non-potable water that is safe for landscapes, raw vegetable crops, and agricultural
crops.

Reduction measure: A goal, strategy, program, or set of actions that target and reduce a specific source of
greenhouse gas emissions.

Regional Transportation Plan (RTP): A long-term blueprint of the region’s transportation systems. The RTP is
a federally mandated comprehensive long-range regional planning document that identifies the region's
transportation needs, sets forth an action plan of projects, determines actions and programs to address the needs
and issues, and documents the financial resources needed to implement the RTP. Plan Bay Area, the combined
RTP and SCS for the nine-county San Francisco Bay Area, was last adopted in 2017.

Renewable energy: Energy from sources that regenerate and are less damaging to the environment, such as
solar, wind, biomass, and small-scale hydroelectric power.

Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS): A regulation requiring utility companies in California to increase the
production of renewable energy from solar, wind, or biomass, or geothermal sources.

Sector: A category of activities responsible for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as transportation, water
use, or energy use. Sectors may comprise multiple GHG sources and activities.

Senate Bill (SB) 97: Requires lead agencies to analyze greenhouse gas emissions and climate change impacts
under the California Environmental Quality Act.

Senate Bill (SB) 375: Directs the metropolitan planning organizations in California to create a sustainable
communities strategy (SCS) as part of the regional transportation plan. The SCS will demonstrate how the region
will achieve the 2020 and 2035 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for the region set by the California
Air Resources Board.

Senate Bill (SB) 1383: Requires businesses and residents to separate their organic waste from other waste
streams for recycling or composting with a target for reducing organic waste disposal in landfills by 75 percent
by 2025. Requires local jurisdictions to implement organic waste recycling programs to meet these goals.

Shared mobility: A means of transportation using shared devices, such as bicycles and scooters, that users rent
for short periods of time.

| 110 City of San Mateo May 2023

191 of 599


--- page 192 ---
GLOSSARY

Sustainability: Community use of natural resources in a way that does not jeopardize the ability of future
generations to live and prosper.

Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS): The land use element of each metropolitan planning organization's
regional transportation plan as required by Senate Bill 375. The SCS will demonstrate how the region will achieve
the 2020 and 2035 vehicle miles traveled and greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for the region set by
the California Air Resources Board. Plan Bay Area, the combined RTP and SCS for the nine-county San Francisco
Bay Area, was last adopted in 2017.

Sustainable development: Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability
of future generations to meet their own needs.

Transit-oriented development (TOD): A mixed-use residential or commercial area designed to maximize access
to transit options.

Transportation demand management (TDM): A voluntary or mandatory program developed by local agencies,
large employers, or high traffic commercial services to limit the amount of congestion and pollution related to
transportation demand. TDM plans may include incentives, regulations, and education about transportation
alternatives.

Transportation network company (TNC): A company whose service allows users to request an on-demand ride
from drivers using their own personal vehicles to transport users. Lyft and Uber are the most prominent examples.

Vehicle miles traveled (VMT): A key measure of overall street and highway use. Reducing VMT is often a major
objective in efforts to reduce vehicular congestion and achieve regional air quality goals.

Water conservation: Reducing water use, such as by turning off taps, shortening shower times, and reducing
outdoor irrigation demand.

Water-efficient landscape: Native or low-water-using landscapes. Water-efficient landscapes are required by
law in all cities and counties in California to conserve water.

Water use efficiency: Replacing older technologies and practices in order to accomplish the same results with
less water, for example, by replacing toilets with new high efficiency models and by installing “smart controllers”
in irrigated areas.

Zero net energy: Generating as much energy as is used, over the course of a year. For example, a zero net energy
building will generate as much energy on-site as it uses annually.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan Lam]

192 of 599


--- page 193 ---
GLOSSARY

Le] City of San Mateo May 2023

193 of 599


--- page 194 ---
City of

~~ San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Works Cited

This list is a general list of sources used to broadly inform preparation of the CAP. Appendix A lists the sources
used to specifically quantify individual GHG reduction measures.

Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 2022. “California Environmental Quality Act: Pre-release Version of
Appendix C Guidance for GHG Reduction Strategies.”

. 2022. “Justification Report: CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the Significance of Climate Impacts From
Land Use Projects and Plans.”

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

California Air Resources Board. 2011. “Local Government Operations Protocol for Greenhouse Gas Assessments.”

https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/localgov.htm.
. 2022. “AB 32 Scoping Plan.” https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/scopingplan/scopingplan.htm.

California Energy Commission. “Cal-Adapt.” https://cal-adapt.org/.

California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, California Energy Commission, and California Natural
Resources Agency. “California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment.” http://www.climateassessment.ca.gov/.

City of San Mateo. 2015. San Mateo 2015 Climate Action Plan.



--- page 195 ---
WORKS CITED

. 2020, 2021, and 2022. “CAP Progress Updates.”
Updates.

County of San Mateo. 2019. “RICAPS Program.” https://performance.smcgov.org/stories/s/RICAPS/xzkp-fn3v/.

ICLEI Local Governments for Sustainability USA. 2012. US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. http://www.icleiusa.org/tools/ghgprotocol/community-protocol.

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2013. IPCC Fifth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2013: The
Physical Science Basis. http://www. ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1/.

Le | City of San Mateo May 2023

195 of 599


--- page 196 ---
%
a

City of
’ San Mateo
Climate Action Plan

2 >
ALroe

Appendix 1:

Technical Appendix:
Methods and
Assumptions

GHG REDUCTION MEASURE QUANTIFICATION

This appendix summarizes data sources, assumptions, and performance metrics used to calculate greenhouse
gas emissions reductions for the City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan. The sources and metrics are organized
by measure and rely on four primary types of data and research: (1) San Mateo’s GHG emissions inventory and
forecast, (2) government agency tools and reports, (3) case studies in similar jurisdictions, and (4) scholarly
research.

Further, the quantification approaches are consistent with guidance provided by the Bay Area Air Quality
Management District (BAAQMD) for development of a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy. The baseline GHG
inventory and forecast serve as the foundation for the quantification of the City’s GHG reduction measures.
Activity data from the inventory form the basis of measure quantification, including vehicle miles traveled (VMT),
kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity or therms of natural gas consumed, and tons of waste disposed. Activity data
were combined with the performance targets and indicators identified by the City and consultants. The activity
data and performance targets and indicators were used throughout the quantification process to calculate the



--- page 197 ---
APPENDIX 1

emissions reduction benefit of each measure. This approach ensures that San Mateo’s GHG emissions reductions
are tied to the baseline and to future activities occurring within the City.

Emissions Factors

Table 1-1 lists the emissions factors used to quantify emissions reductions in the CAP. These emission factors
reflect the GHG reductions from existing and planned accomplishments, as well as PCE, to the extent feasible.
They do not reflect the average emission factors with full implementation of this CAP.

Table 1-1: Emissions Coefficients for CAP Measures

MTCOze per mile

0.000464 0.000392 0.000312 0.000277. 0.000269 EMFAC 2021
driven (with Pavley)

, Caltrain, US
MTCO2e per Caltrain 4.494371 0.002506 0.000629 0.000627 ~—0.000626 Community
passenger mile Protocol
ce) oo - 0.000045 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 PCE, US EPA
cee os 0.000223 0.000002 0.000002 0.000001 0.000000 PG&E, US EPA

MTCOze per kWh
(direct access)

MTCOvze per kWh
(weighted 0.000160 0.000054 0.000010 0.000006 0.000000

0.000057 = 0.000212 0.000152 0.000095 0.000000 CEC, US EPA

PCE, PG&E, CEC,

. US EPA
community average)

MTCOze per therm 0.005292 0.005319 0.005319 0.005319 0.005319 US Community

Protocol

CARB Landfill

ve peliomel O207521 0.253266 0.236134 0.236134 0. 236134 Emissions Tool

v1.3

| = | City of San Mateo July 2023

197 of 599


--- page 198 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

These emissions coefficients were calculated as follows, using data from the GHG inventory and forecast:
e MTCO:ze per mile driven: Divide the emissions from on-road transportation by the number of on-road
vehicle miles traveled.

e MTCOcze per passenger mile: For Caltrain, divide the emissions from Caltrain activities related to San
Mateo by the number of passenger miles attributed to San Mateo.

e MTCOze per kWh: Divide the sum of the emissions for residential and commercial electricity use by the
sum of the kWh for these two sources, for each electricity provider.

e MTCOcze per therm: Divide the sum of the emissions from residential and commercial natural gas by the
sum of the therms used by these two sources.

e MTCO:ze per ton of waste: Divide the sum of the emissions from landfilled waste and waste in place by
the sum of the tons of waste in these sources.

TECHNICAL DATA FOR EXISTING AND PLANNED LOCAL AND REGIONAL ACTIVITIES

Data sources, methods, and assumptions for the quantification of the existing and planned local and regional
activities are provided below. Note that some existing and planned local activities may not have assumptions
and/or performance metrics. The GHG reductions shown for existing and planned local and regional activities
are only in addition to any reductions achieved by existing or planned State efforts.

Peninsula Clean Energy

GHG Reduction

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 20,000 13,750

Performance Indicators

Electricity supplied by PCE (kWh) 495,153,490 487,569,650 501,096,050
PCE electricity supplied to ECO100 customers (kWh) 27,614,500 27,614,500 27,614,500

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | i |

198 of 599


--- page 199 ---
APPENDIX 1

GHG Method

For overall electricity supplied by PCE, the project team identified the current fraction of community electricity
supplied by PCE and applied this ratio to future projections of electricity use. The team subtracted the amount
of PCE-supplied electricity in 2020 from this future projection to obtain the increase in PCE electricity supplies,
then multiplied this value by an emissions factor that reflects PCE’s future energy procurement plans. For ECO100,
the project team identified how much electricity is served to ECO100 and applied an emissions factor that reflects
the community's weighted average of electricity sources to determine the overall amount of averted emissions.

GHG Sources

California Energy Commission. 2023. 2079 Power Content Label: Peninsula Clean _ Energy.
https://www.energy.ca.gov/filebrowser/download/3244.

Doubrovskaia, M. 2023. Peninsula Clean Energy. Personal communication to A. Chow, City of San Mateo. April
12.

Le] City of San Mateo July 2023

199 of 599


--- page 200 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Energy-efficiency retrofits

Activity and GHG Reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) 136,470 136,470 136,470

Natural gas savings (therms) 5,910 5,910 5,910

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 30 30 30
GHG Method

The project team collected data on the savings from energy efficiency retrofits, as reported by the San Mateo
County Energy Watch and BayREN. The team then multiplied these values by the appropriate emissions factor in
order to calculate GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

City of San Mateo. 2021. Climate Action Plan Progress Report.
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=4766&type=2

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | |

200 of 599


--- page 201 ---
APPENDIX 1

Solar energy installation

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 5,695,620 5,695,620 5,695,620
Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) 20 10 0)
GHG Method

The project team obtained data on the number and generation potential of new solar energy installations in San
Mateo. The team then used a National Renewables Energy Laboratory tool to determine how much electricity
can be produced in San Mateo, on average, per kilowatt of generation potential, and calculated the total
electricity generated annually from these installations. The project team applied a weighted average community
electricity emissions factor to this total to determine GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

California Solar Initiative. 2023. “California Distributed Generation Statistics.”
https://www.californiadgstats.ca.gov/downloads/

City of San Mateo. 2022. Climate Action Plan Progress Report.
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=6472&type=2

National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.” https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.

Le | City of San Mateo July 2023

201 of 599


--- page 202 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Municipal energy-efficiency retrofits

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 1,831,170 1,831,170 1,831,170

Natural gas savings (therms) 22,870 22,870 22,870

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 160 160 160
GHG Method

The project team reviewed the results of the energy efficiency analysis provided by PG&E, which identifies
anticipated electricity and natural gas savings from implementing the SST retrofits. The team applied the
appropriate electricity and natural gas emissions factor to determine the overall GHG reduction.

GHG Sources

City of San Mateo. 2021. Climate Action Plan Progress Report.
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=4766&type=2

July 2023 Climate Action Plan

202 of 599


--- page 203 ---
APPENDIX 1

Public-access EV chargers

GHG Reduction

Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) Less than 10 Less than 10 Less than 10

Performance Indicators

Net increase in EV VMT 258,/20 258,720 258,/20
Net increase in electricity use (kWh) 87,960 87,960 87,960
GHG Method

The project team collected information on the number of public EV chargers in San Mateo and used factors
about the average charging use of public EV chargers to estimate how many VMT of EV use the public chargers
in the community support annually. The project team then estimated the electricity use from these EV chargers.
Next, the team applied the appropriate emissions factors to the VMT and electricity use figures and took the
difference between the two as the net reduction in GHG emissions.

GHG Sources
Chow, A. 2023. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. April 14.
ICLEI — Local Governments for Sustainability. n.d. Climate and Air Pollution Planning Assistant v 1.5.

US Environmental Protection Agency. n.d. “Interactive Version of the Electric Vehicle Label.”
https://www.epa.gov/fueleconomy/interactive-version-electric-vehicle-label.

| | City of San Mateo July 2023

203 of 599


--- page 204 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Transportation Demand Management

Activity and GHG Reduction

Transportation savings (VMT) 725,620 700,370 687,710
Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) 190 170 160
GHG Method

The project team obtained information from the San Mateo Rail Corridor Area Transportation Management
Agency to identify the mandatory reductions in trip generation as a result of existing and under-construction
developments subject to TDM provisions and combined this information with results from the inventory and
forecast to estimate the decrease in VMT resulting from TDM. The project team applied the community-wide
VMT emissions coefficient to this figure to determine the GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

Lim, L. 2019. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to A. Chow, City of San Mateo. January 3.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-9 |

204 of 599


--- page 205 ---
APPENDIX 1

Additional Bicycle Lanes
Activity and GHG Reduction

VMT savings 97,990 111,570 119,050
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 30 30 30

Performance Indicators

Additional bicycle lanes (miles)

GHG Method

The project team reviewed the Bicycle Master Plan showing the increase in bicycle lanes planned for 2020 along
with the number of bicycle lanes that have been constructed since the 2019 inventory. The team used this
information and the proposed methodology from the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association to
calculate the percentage decrease in VMT associated with an increase in bicycle lanes and applied the VMT
emissions factor for personal vehicles to determine the GHG reductions associated with this existing
accomplishment.

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

Chow, A. 2023. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. April 14

U.S. Census Bureau. 2023. 2014 — 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates, BO8006: Sex of Workers
by Means of Transportation to Work [data table].

| 1-10 | City of San Mateo July 2023

205 of 599


--- page 206 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Caltrain electrification

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity use increase (kWh) 11,852,700 11,852,700 11,852,700
Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) 3,560 4,200 4,560
GHG Method

The project team reviewed information from the Caltrain electrification project EIR to estimate decreases in diesel
use and increases in electricity use from electrification. The team combined these data with information from the
inventory to scale these changes in activity data specifically to San Mateo. The team applied the Caltrain
emissions factors from the inventory to determine net GHG reductions from electrification.

GHG Sources

Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board. 2014. Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project Draft Environmental Impact
Report.
http://www.caltrain.com/projectsplans/CaltrainModernization/Modernization/PeninsulaCorridorElectrificatio

nProject/PCEP DEIR 2014.html.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan Len |

206 of 599


--- page 207 ---
APPENDIX 1

TECHNICAL DATA FOR QUANTIFIED MEASURES
Data sources, methods, and assumptions for the quantification of CAP measures are provided below.
BE 1 All-electric new construction

Assumptions

Cumulative % of residential construction influenced by energy

0, 9 9
efficiency reach code: aed oan uae
Cumulative % of office commercial construction influenced by energy 85% 90% 95%
efficiency reach code:

Cumulative % of non-office commercial construction influenced by 40% 60% 90%
energy efficiency reach code:
Cumulative % new non-residential buildings that are office space: 59% 64% 64%

Activity and GHG reductions

ey 20002085

Electricity savings (kWh) -8,588,290 -15,674,440 -19,303,790

Natural gas savings (therms) = —— aS

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 21,070 38,450 47,250

| “ee | City of San Mateo July 2023

207 of 599


--- page 208 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Performance indicators

Number of all-electric 8,280 new construction 19,360 new construction 25,500 new construction
new construction residential housing units residential housing units _ residential housing units
residential housing units built all-electric. built all-electric. built all-electric.

837,280 square feet of 2,264,130 square feet of 3,424,010 square feet of

Square feet of all-electric

AE VLEGIEURIGHOHINGE new construction non- new construction non- new construction non-
; : ie residential buildings built residential buildings built — residential buildings built

residential buildings : : .
all-electric. all-electric. all-electric.

GHG Method

The project team obtained data from Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Element on projected
buildout of nonresidential buildings in San Mateo and data from Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)
Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 2045, and used these data to estimate
the number of new buildings that would be impacted by an all-electric new construction reach code. The team
identified the average amount of natural gas used per household are per nonresidential square foot and data on
the equivalent amount of electricity that would be required in an all-electric version of similar buildings and
applied this information to the projected number of new buildings built in order to estimate the projected
reduction in natural gas consumption and the projected increase in electricity consumption resulting from the
policy. The team then applied the emission factor for avoided natural gas consumption to estimate the emissions
reduction associated with reduced natural gas consumption, and the emission factor for electricity use to
estimate the emissions increase associated with increased electricity consumption. The net resulting emissions is
the estimated emissions avoided from the policy.

GHG Sources

California Energy Commission. 2006. "California Commercial End-Use Survey.”
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/ceus/2006 enduse.html

California Energy Commission. 2009. "2009 California Residential Appliance Saturation Study.”
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous rass.html

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | BE |

208 of 599


--- page 209 ---
APPENDIX 1

BE 2 All-electric existing buildings

Assumptions

Cumulative percent of commercial buildings that are office space 59% 64% 64%
Cumulative percent of residential gas equipment reaching end of 350% 40% 50%
life replaced with electric due to panel incentive

Cumulative percent of residential electrical panel upgrades 50% 350% 20%
resulting in EV purchase

Cumulative percent of office gas equipment reaching end of life 70% 750% 90%
replaced with electric due to panel incentive

Cumulative percent of office electrical panel upgrades resulting 40% 30% 20%
in EV charging installation

Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing gasoline vehicle 98% 97% 96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing diesel vehicle 3% 3% 4%

Activity and GHG reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) -80,105,780 -125,747,100 -133,624,540
Natural gas savings (therms) 5,002,490 11,459,340 17,775,000
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) O22 184,610 221,260

| 114 City of San Mateo July 2023

209 of 599


--- page 210 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Performance indicators

Existing residential gas
to electric HVAC
conversions

Existing residential gas
to electric water heating
conversions

Existing residential gas
to electric clothes drying
conversions

Existing residential gas
to electric cooking
conversions

Existing residential
electrical panel
upgrades

Square feet of existing
offices receiving gas to
electric HVAC
conversions

Square feet of existing
offices receiving gas to
electric water heating
conversions

July 2023

9,890 existing residential
gas HVAC systems
replaced with electric
HVAC systems.

14,840 existing residential
gas water heaters
replaced with electric
HVAC systems.

7,420 existing residential
gas clothes dryers
replaced with electric
clothes dryers.

5,940 existing residential
gas ranges and ovens
replaced with electric

ranges and ovens.

19,050 existing residential
electrical panels
upgraded.

5,523,120 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
HVAC systems with
electric HVAC systems.

8,284,680 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas water
heaters with electric
water heaters.

22,620 existing residential
gas HVAC systems
replaced with electric
HVAC systems.

33,920 existing residential
gas water heaters
replaced with electric
HVAC systems.

16,960 existing residential
gas clothes dryers
replaced with electric
clothes dryers.

13,570 existing residential
gas ranges and ovens
replaced with electric

ranges and ovens.

43,530 existing residential
electrical panels
upgraded.

12,778,100 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
HVAC systems with
electric HVAC systems.

19,167,150 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas water
heaters with electric
water heaters.

35,340 existing
residential gas HVAC
systems replaced with
electric HVAC systems.

53,000 existing
residential gas water
heaters replaced with
electric HVAC systems.

26,500 existing
residential gas clothes
dryers replaced with
electric clothes dryers.

21,200 existing
residential gas ranges
and ovens replaced with

electric ranges and ovens.

68,020 existing
residential electrical
panels upgraded.

19,167,150 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
HVAC systems with
electric HVAC systems.

28,750,730 square feet of
existing office buildings

replace existing gas water

heaters with electric
water heaters.

Climate Action Plan | a |

210 of 599


--- page 211 ---
APPENDIX 1

Square feet of existing
offices receiving gas to
electric cooking
conversions

Square feet of existing
offices receiving
electrical panel
upgrades

Number of electric
vehicles
purchased/leased to
replace internal
combustion engine (ICE)
vehicles

Existing office parking

spaces with EV charging:

Existing residential
parking spaces with EV
charging:

| 1-16 City of San Mateo

6,627,740 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
ranges and ovens with
electric ranges and ovens.

10,217,770 square feet of
existing office buildings
electrical panels
upgraded.

16,750 electric vehicles
purchased or leased by
residents or commuters

to replace internal
combustion engine
vehicles.

8,170 EV charging ports
installed at existing office
buildings.

9,520 EV charging ports
installed at existing
residential buildings.

15,333,720 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
ranges and ovens with
electric ranges and ovens.

23,639,490 square feet of
existing office buildings
electrical panels
upgraded.

27,780 electric vehicles
purchased or leased by
residents or commuters
to replace internal
combustion engine
vehicles.

14,180 EV charging ports
installed at existing office
buildings.

15,240 EV charging ports
installed at existing
residential buildings.

23,000,580 square feet of
existing office buildings
replace existing gas
ranges and ovens with
electric ranges and ovens.

35,459,230 square feet of
existing office buildings
electrical panels
upgraded.

26,150 electric vehicles
purchased or leased by
residents or commuters
to replace internal
combustion engine
vehicles.

14,180 EV charging ports
installed at existing office
buildings.

13,600 EV charging ports
installed at existing
residential buildings.

July 2023

211 of 599


--- page 212 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

GHG Method

The project team used data from Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Element on projected buildout
of residential and nonresidential buildings in San Mateo and data from Association of Bay Area Governments
(ABAG) Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 2045 to estimate the number of
existing buildings that would be impacted by a policy aimed at providing incentives to encourage residents and
businesses to upgrade electric panels and adopt all-electric technologies. The team identified the percent of
natural gas equipment (e.g., water heaters) that would be replaced at end of life if this policy existed, using the
average life of natural gas equipment to estimate the number of each type of equipment type that would be
replaced per year. Next, the project team consulted reports on the average amount of natural gas consumed by
each type of equipment to estimate the natural gas consumption avoided through electrification of natural gas
equipment. The team used data on energy factors by equipment type to estimate the resulting increase in
electricity use resulting from the replacement of natural gas equipment with electric equipment. The team also
identified performance indicators for the percent of EV chargers that would be installed as a result of this policy
and the resulting number of EVs that would be purchased due to accessibility of charging. The team used data
on the average VMT by a passenger vehicle, average efficiency of gasoline vehicles, average efficiency of diesel
vehicles, and average efficiency of electric vehicles to estimate the resulting gasoline and diesel consumption
avoided and increase in electricity use resulting from the replacement of gasoline and diesel vehicles with electric
vehicles. Last, the team applied the appropriate emission factors for natural gas consumption, electricity use,
gasoline consumption, and diesel consumption to estimate the emissions reduction associated with a reduction
in natural gas consumption, gasoline consumption, and diesel consumption and the increase in emissions
associated with an increase in electricity consumption. The net resulting emissions is the estimated emissions
avoided from the policy.

GHG Sources

California Energy Commission. 2006. "California Commercial End-Use Survey.”

https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/ceus/2006 enduse.html

California Energy Commission. 2009. "2009 California Residential Appliance Saturation Study.”
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous rass.html

RSMeans. 2019 RSMeans Online, 2019 [software package].

ASHRAE, 2017. "ASHRAE Technical FAQ". httos://www.ashrae.org/technical-resources/technical-faqs.

US Department of Energy. 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov. https://www.fueleconomy.gov/.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 1-17

212 of 599


--- page 213 ---
APPENDIX 1

California Air Resources Board. 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database”. https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/.

National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 2018. "CEC EV Infrastructure Projection Tool (EVI-Pro)."
https://afdc.energy.gov/evi-pro-lite.

| E85 | City of San Mateo July 2023

213 of 599


--- page 214 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

RE | Peninsula Clean Energy

GHG Assumptions

Percent of residents enrolling in PCE 98% 99% 99.5%
Percent of businesses enrolling in PCE 98% 99% 995%
Percent of direct access customers switching to PCE 2% 4% 5%

GHG Reductions

Emissions reduction (MTCOze)

Performance Indicators

PCE opt-out rate 1.0% 1.0% 0.5%
kWh supplied by ECO 100 32,959,210 43,792,410 55,425,750
GHG Method

The project team identified the amount of electricity from San Mateo customers projected to switch from PG&E
to PCE service, and PCE customers upgrading to ECO100. The team next applied the difference in PG&E and PCE
emissions factors for both regular and ECO100 service to identify the decrease in GHG emissions.

GHG Sources

California’ Energy Commission. 2018. 2077 Power Content Label: Peninsula Clean _ Energy.

https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/pcl/labels/2017 labels/PCE 2017 PCL.pdf.

City of San Mateo. 2020. 2020 Climate Action Plan Annual Progress Report.
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-Updates.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | cee |

214 of 599


--- page 215 ---
APPENDIX 1

RE 2 Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences

GHG Assumptions

Percent of existing homes installing solar energy systems 15% 25% 30%
Percent of existing homes with solar energy systems installing 20% 35% 50%
battery storage systems

Percent of new homes installing battery storage systems 25% 40% 60%

GHG Reduction

Emissions reduction (MTCOze)

Performance Indicators

Number of homes built before 2018 with solar panels 4,960 8,540 10,530
Number of total homes (existing and new) with battery energy 1,500 12,040 22.710
systems

GHG Method

For solar energy systems, the project team identified the number of existing homes in San Mateo that could be
projected to have a solar energy system. Using data from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the team
identified how much electricity these solar energy systems could generate annually and applied the community-
wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings. For battery systems, the team identified the number of new
and existing homes installing solar energy systems and determined the number of these homes that could install
a battery energy system. Assuming that battery systems fully charge and discharge once a day, the team
identified how much additional renewable energy storage capacity would be enabled by the batteries. The project
team then again applied the community-wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings.

GHG Sources

National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.” https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.

| 1-20 City of San Mateo July 2023

215 of 599


--- page 216 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Regional Climate Action Planning Suite. 2019. RICAPS Menu of Measures version 4.1 [data table].
RE 3 Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings

GHG Assumptions

Percent of existing businesses installing solar energy systems 6% 10% 15%

Percent of existing businesses with solar energy systems installing

9 9 9
battery storage systems ee is aoe

GHG reductions

Emissions reduction (MTCOze)

Performance indicators

Number of businesses built before 2018 with solar panels 180
Number of existing businesses with battery energy systems 40 100 240
GHG Method

The project team identified the number of existing businesses in San Mateo that could be projected to have a
solar energy system. Using data from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the team identified how much
electricity these solar energy systems could generate annually and applied the community-wide electricity factor
to identify electricity savings. Next, the team identified the number of existing businesses installing solar energy
systems and determined the number of these businesses that could install a battery energy system. Assuming
that battery systems fully charge and discharge once a day, the team identified how much additional renewable
energy storage capacity would be enabled by the batteries. The project team then again applied the community-
wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | ea |

216 of 599


--- page 217 ---
APPENDIX 1

GHG Sources

National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.” https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.
Regional Climate Action Planning Suite. 2019. RICAPS Menu of Measures version 4.1 [data table].
EE 1 Residential energy efficiency retrofits

Assumptions

Percent of existing homes conducting standard retrofits (not including

fe) fe) fe)
fuel-switched homes) 15% 18% 20%

Percent of existing homes retrofitting to current Title 24 standards (not

9 9 0,
including fuel-switched homes) ils a2 a

Activity and GHG reductions

203 rt 2085

Electricity savings (kWh) 9,137,050 7,303,020 6,039,130
Natural gas savings (therms) 903,660 1,030,250 996,860
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 6,160 7,020 6,790

| = | City of San Mateo July 2023

217 of 599


--- page 218 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Performance indicators

2,290 single-family homes 2,540 single-family homes 2,350 single-family homes
and 1,840 multifamily homes and 2,040 multifamily homes and 1,890 multifamily homes

Number of undergoing standard undergoing standard undergoing standard
— retrofits, and 3,060 single- retrofits, and 3,530 single- retrofits, and 3,530 single-
. family homes and 2,450 family homes and 2,830 family homes and 2,830

retrofitted . . oe :
multifamily homes being multifamily homes being multifamily homes being
upgraded to current Title 24 | upgraded to current Title24 | upgraded to current Title 24
standards standards standards

GHG Method

The project team looked at reports from retrofit programs throughout California to identify the typical electricity
and natural gas savings from single-family and multi-family home retrofits and applied these savings to the
energy use patterns of residences in San Mateo. The team next reviewed current and projected future Title 24
standards against the current energy performance of San Mateo homes and projections of future San Mateo
Title 24 retrofits to determine the typical electricity and natural gas savings. The team then applied the
appropriate emissions factors to the energy savings estimates to determine GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

California Energy Commission. 2014. Impact Evaluation of the California Comprehensive Residential Retrofit
Programs.

EE 2 Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits

Assumptions

Percent of existing businesses conducting standard retrofits (not

fe} fe} fe}
including fuel-switched businesses) are 2272 We

Percent of existing businesses retrofitting to current Title 24 standards

9 9 9
(not including fuel-switched businesses) ioe aoe tia

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | es. |

218 of 599


--- page 219 ---
APPENDIX 1

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 22,252,780 60,968,630 93,592,880
Natural gas savings (therms) 535,400 1,266,570 1,964,000
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 3,800 8,860 13,380

Performance Indicators

590 businesses undergoing 740 businesses undergoing 1/0 businesses undergoing

Mls o standard retrofits, and 360 standard retrofits, and 840 standard retrofits, and 1,300
businesses : . :
retrofitted businesses upgraded to businesses upgraded to businesses upgraded to
current Title 24 standards. current Title 24 standards. current Title 24 standards.
GHG Method

The project team looked at reports of the energy savings from different types of nonresidential energy efficiency
retrofits to identify the typical electricity and natural gas savings from these activities and applied these savings
to the energy use patterns of San Mateo businesses. The team next reviewed current and projected future Title
24 standards against the current energy performance of San Mateo businesses and projections of future San
Mateo Title 24 retrofits to determine the typical electricity and natural gas savings. The team then applied the
appropriate emissions factors to the energy savings estimates to determine GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Office Buildings.
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20761.pdf.

Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Retail Buildings.
https://www.pnni.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20814.pdf.

| 1-24 | City of San Mateo July 2023

219 of 599


--- page 220 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

EE 3 Residential tree planting
Assumptions

Percent of households with shade trees 10% 25% 35%

Activity and GHG reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 793,560 1,889,740 2,837,540
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10 Less than 10 0

Performance Indicators

Number of households with shade trees 4,240 13,130 22,330

GHG Method

The GHG inventory and reports from PG&E were used to identify per business energy use in San Mateo, while
data from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, the California Energy Commission, and academic studies
were used to determine reductions per home. These results were combined with participation rates to calculate
total reductions in energy use from this measure. The outcome was then combined with emissions factors from
the inventory to determine GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

The project team reviewed studies about the typical electricity savings from reduced air conditioning demand
associated with tree planting. The team then applied this information to projections of future participation and
the energy use patterns in San Mateo to identify total electricity reduction. Next, the team converted this to GHG
emission savings using the appropriate emissions factors.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | cess |

220 of 599


--- page 221 ---
APPENDIX 1

ME 1 Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
GHG Assumptions, Reductions, and Performance Indicators

This measure is supportive due to the lack of information about future municipal construction. There are no
assumptions, activity or GHG reductions, or performance indicators for supportive measures.

GHG Method
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions, so no calculations were made.
GHG Sources

Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions. There are no sources for GHG reduction
calculations for supportive measures.

| 1-26 City of San Mateo July 2023

221 of 599


--- page 222 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

ME 2 Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
Assumptions

Percent of existing municipal square footage retrofitted 10% 25% 35%

Note that these retrofits go beyond those included as part of the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program, as those are already
accounted for as a planned action.

Activity and GHG Reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) 67,260 168,140 235,400
Natural gas savings (therms) 1,860 4,640 6,500
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 10 30 40

Performance Indicators

Square footage of retrofitted municipal buildings 9,440 23,610 33,050

GHG Method

The project team looked at the typical energy efficiency savings that can be achieved with retrofits to office
buildings and applied this reduction to the projected amount of retrofitted City square footage to calculate the
total electricity and natural gas savings. The team then used the appropriate emission factors to identify the GHG
reductions from these retrofits.

GHG Sources

City of San Mateo. 2007. City of San Mateo Greenhouse Gas _ Emissions Inventory Report.

Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Office Buildings.
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20761.pdf.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 1-27

222 of 599


--- page 223 ---
APPENDIX 1

ME 3 All-electric municipal buildings

Assumptions

Cumulative building area of existing municipal building/s

electrified (square feet): SUE epee BUDee
Cumulative number of police stations & fire stations electrified: 0 0 1
Cumulative building area of new municipal building/s electrified 40,000 60,000 80,000

(square feet):

Activity and GHG Reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) -157,380 -236,070 -314,760
Natural gas savings (therms) 19,760 29,640 39,520
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 130 200 270

Performance Indicators

40,000 square feet of 60,000 square feet of 80,000 square feet of
Square feet of a . . ie ae .

stata arunie pal existing municipal existing municipal existing municipal
— a buildings retrofitted to all- buildings retrofitted to all- buildings retrofitted to all-

building/s electrified: . . '
electric. electric. electric.
Number of police 0 existing police stations 0 existing police stations —_1 existing police stations
stations & fire or fire stations retrofitted or fire stations retrofitted —_ or fire stations retrofitted
stations electrified: to all-electric. to all-electric. to all-electric.
Square feet of new 40,000 square feet of new 60,000 square feet of new 80,000 square feet of new
municipal building/s municipal buildings built —§ = municipal buildings built |= municipal buildings built
electrified: all-electric. all-electric. all-electric.

een City of San Mateo July 2023

223 of 599


--- page 224 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

GHG Method

The project team to inputs from City staff to project the total square footage of new municipal construction that
is built all-electric and existing municipal construction that Is retrofitted to be all-electric. The team estimated
annual gas use associated with the existing municipal buildings to be retrofitted and the newly constructed
municipal buildings (assuming they were built with natural gas equipment), based on energy use intensity
information from the California Energy Commission Commercial End-Use Survey. The team used this estimate
on "business as usual" natural gas consumption for these buildings to calculate the natural gas consumption
avoided from retrofitting to all-electric or building to all-electric. The team looked at data on the average amount
of natural gas consumed by each type of equipment to estimate the natural gas consumption avoided through
electrification of natural gas equipment and used data on energy factors by equipment type was used to estimate
the resulting increase in electricity use resulting from the replacement of natural gas equipment with electric
equipment. The team applied emission factors for natural gas consumption and electricity use to estimate the
emissions reduction associated with a reduction in natural gas consumption and the increase in emissions
associated with an increase in electricity use and took the net resulting emissions as the estimated emissions
avoided from the policy.

GHG Sources

California Energy Commission. 2009. "2009 California Residential Appliance Saturation Study.”
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous rass.html

July 2023 Climate Action Plan [| ae |

224 of 599


--- page 225 ---
APPENDIX 1

CF 1 Electric vehicle charging infrastructure

Assumptions

Cumulative average square feet of new commercial building space per

; 300 300 300
parking spot
Target percent of new workplace parking to have EV charger installed 20% 20% 25%
Target percent of new multi-unit dwelling residents with EV charger 15% 250% 30%
access
Target percent of new single-family homes to have EV charger outlet 15% 25% 35%
installed
Cumulative percent commercial buildings that are office space with 59% 64% 64%
parking
Cumulative average square feet of existing commercial building space 600 600 600
per parking spot
Target percent of existing workplace parking to have EV charger 79% 8% 10%
installed
Target percent of existing multi-unit dwelling residents with access to 79% 8% 10%
EV charging
Cumulative target additional public parking spaces with EV charging 38 52 60
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a gasoline vehicle 98% 97% 96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a diesel vehicle 2% 3% 4%
Target percent of heavy-duty vehicle converted to EV 5% 20% 25%

| 1-30 | City of San Mateo July 2023

225 of 599


--- page 226 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) -22,561,870 -36,502,430 -51,974,960

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 24,420 49,390 69,780

Performance Indicators

New non-residential
parking spaces with EV
charging

New multi-unit dwelling
residential parking
spaces with EV charging

New single-family
residential parking
spaces with EV charger
outlet

Existing non-residential
parking spaces with EV
charging

Existing multi-unit
dwelling residential
parking spaces with EV
charging

Existing additional public
parking spaces with EV
charging

July 2023

1,570 EV charging ports
installed at new non-
residential buildings.

810 EV charging ports
installed at new multi-
family residential
buildings.

680 EV charging outlets
installed at new single-
family residential
buildings.

1,540 EV charging ports
installed at existing
non-residential
buildings.

1,850 EV charging ports
installed at existing
multi-family residential
buildings.

38 EV charging ports
installed at existing
public locations.

3,160 EV charging ports
installed at new non-
residential buildings.

3,380 EV charging ports
installed at new multi-
family residential
buildings.

1,970 EV charging outlets
installed at new single-
family residential
buildings.

2,100 EV charging ports
installed at existing non-
residential buildings.

2,570 EV charging ports
installed at existing multi-
family residential
buildings.

60 EV charging ports
installed at existing public
locations.

5,010 EV charging ports
installed at new non-
residential buildings.

5,290 EV charging ports
installed at new multi-
family residential
buildings.

3,600 EV charging outlets
installed at new single-
family residential
buildings.

2,770 EV charging ports
installed at existing non-
residential buildings.

3,530 EV charging ports
installed at existing multi-
family residential
buildings.

60 EV charging ports
installed at existing public
locations.

Climate Action Plan | 1-31 |

226 of 599


--- page 227 ---
APPENDIX 1

Number of light-duty

electric vehicles 5510 light-duty electric 10,840 light-duty electric 16,110 light-duty electric

urchased or vehicles purchased or vehicles purchased or vehicles purchased or
fend leased leased. leased
GHG Method

The project team relied on data from the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Element for the projected
buildout of nonresidential buildings in San Mateo, along with data from Association of Bay Area Governments
(ABAG) Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 2050, to estimate the number of
new buildings that would be impacted by an electric vehicle charging infrastructure new construction reach code.
The team used permit data from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to estimate the
percent of new residential units that will be single family or duplex vs. 3+ unit multifamily. Using assumptions
regarding the building square footage per new development parking space, the team identified the total number
of parking spaces associated with multi-family residential and commercial development, assuming an increasing
percentage of new development parking spaces will be required to be built electric vehicle (EV) capable to
accommodate electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). The team looked at how the deployment of EVSE in new
development is projected to increase the rate at which residents and employees will replace gasoline vehicles
with EVs, and estimated how the increased adoption of EVs is likely to decrease the VMT (and associated gasoline
and diesel consumption) from gasoline and diesel vehicles and increase the VMT (and associated electricity use)
from EVs. The team then applied emission factors for avoided gasoline and diesel consumption, and increased
electricity use, and took the difference as the net reduction in GHG emissions.

GHG Sources

California Air Resources Board. 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database.”
NREL, 2018. "CEC EV Infrastructure Projection Tool (EVI-Pro)."

U.S. Census Bureau. 2017. "American Community Survey."

U.S. Department of Energy. 2019. "www.fueleconomy.gov.”

U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 2019. "State of the Cities Data Systems."

1-32 City of San Mateo July 2023

227 of 599


--- page 228 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration. 2016. "Average miles driven per year by
state."

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-33 |

228 of 599


--- page 229 ---
APPENDIX 1

CF 2 Electric vehicle education and outreach

Assumptions

Target percent of total community Transportation Network

9 fe) fe)
Company (TNC) VMT from electric vehicles 30% 45% 60%

Target percent total community VMT from electric vehicles 30% 60% 10%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) -4,334,040 -6,/86,810 -10,211,980
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 4,910 8,030 12,360

Performance Indicators

17,528,180 vehicle miles 30,375,160 vehicle miles 45,704,900 vehicle miles

travelled by internal travelled by internal travelled by internal

Annual additional combustion engine combustion engine combustion engine
VMT travelled by transportation network transportation network transportation network
EV TNCs companies vehicles companies vehicles companies vehicles
replaced with electric replaced with electric replaced with electric

vehicles. vehicles. vehicles.

GHG Method

The projected team relied on forecasted total community VMT from passenger vehicles and estimates from the
City of San Francisco on the percent of total community VMT from Transportation Network Companies (TNCs)
to estimate the total annual VMT from TNCs in City of San Mateo. The team assumed that the policy or program
aimed at regulating or incentivizing TNCs to increase adoption of EVs will results in a specific percent of TNCs
being EVs by a given target year, and then estimated how the increased adoption of TNC EVs will decrease the
VMT (and associated gasoline consumption) associated with gasoline vehicles and increase the VMT (and

| 1-34 City of San Mateo July 2023

229 of 599


--- page 230 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

associated electricity consumption) associated with EVs. The team applied the emission factor for avoided
gasoline consumption, and an emissions factor for increased electricity use. The difference between the two
results is the net GHG reduction from this measure.

GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board, 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database.”

San Francisco County Transportation Authority. 2017. “TNCs Today: A Profile of San Francisco Transportation
Network Company Activity.”

US Department of Energy. 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov.
CF 3 Clean City fleet

GHG Assumptions

Percent of City vehicles replaced with EVs 25% 45% 60%
Percent of City vehicles fueled by biomethane 15% 20% 25%

Activity and GHG Reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) -105,540 -212,500 -319,750
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 130 200 270

Performance Indicators

Fleet EV VMT 610,020 1,250,360 179.020
Fleet biomethane VMT 366,010 509,120 741,260

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-35 |

230 of 599


--- page 231 ---
APPENDIX 1

GHG Method

The projected team looked at State projections for regional increases in electric and natural gas (including
biomethane) vehicles and applied these proportions to the City municipal fleet. The team then took the local
projections for increases in electric and natural gas vehicles in the municipal fleet and identified the increase in
electric and natural gas VMT resulting from local policies. The team then adjusted the natural gas VMT to account
for the different energy density of natural gas and gasoline/diesel and calculated the increase in electricity
resulting from greater municipal EV adoption. Lastly, the team applied emission factors, taking the net difference
between decreased VMT emissions from electric and natural gas vehicle adoption and increased electricity use
as the overall GHG benefit.

GHG Sources

City of San Mateo. 2007. City of San Mateo Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Report.
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5262/APPENDIX-S-October24-2007?bidld=

ICLEI Local Governments for Sustainability USA. 2012. US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. http://www.icleiusa.org/tools/ghgprotocol/community-protocol.

Gable, C., and Gable, S. 2019. “Gasoline Gallon Equivalents (GGE).” https:/Avwww.thoughtco.com/fuel-energy-
comparisons-85636.

CF 4 Clean fuel

GHG Assumptions
Target % total community VMT from hydrogen vehicles 8% 30% 45%

Activity and GHG Reductions

Electricity savings (kWh) -2,186,300 -8,413,180 -13,430,770
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 4,210 16,920 26,360

| 1-36 City of San Mateo July 2023

231 of 599


--- page 232 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Performance Indicators

Number of heavy-duty

ieareoentehices 260 hydrogen fuel heavy- 1,110 hydrogen fuel cell 1,770 hydrogen fuel cell

irchasedior duty cell vehicles heavy-duty vehicles heavy-duty vehicles
jaa purchased or leased . purchased or leased . purchased or leased .
GHG Method

The project team estimated how the deployment of hydrogen fueling stations will increase the rate at which
residents and employees will replace heavy-duty gasoline and diesel vehicles with hydrogen fuel cell vehicles
(FCVs). The team analyzed how the increased adoption of FCVs is likely to decrease the VMT (and associated
gasoline consumption) associated with heavy-duty gasoline diesel vehicles and increase the VMT (and associated
hydrogen consumption) associated with FCVs. The team used data from the U.S. Department of Energy on the
efficiency of the electrolysis process to estimate the amount of electricity required to produce hydrogen. The
team then applied an emission factor for avoided gasoline and diesel consumption to estimate the emissions
reduction associated with reduced gasoline and diesel consumption, and an emission factor for electricity
consumption to estimate the emissions increase associated with increased electricity use. The net resulting
emissions is the estimated emissions avoided from the policy.

GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board, 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database.”

California Air Resources Board, 2023. “Final 2022 Scoping Plan — AB 32 GHG shits Sectors ; Modeling Data
Spreadsheet.”

plan-documents.

US Department of Energy, 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov.

U.S. Department of Energy, 2019. "DOE Technical Targets for Hydrogen Production from Electrolysis."

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 1-37

232 of 599


--- page 233 ---
APPENDIX 1

ST 1 Bicycle mode share
GHG Assumptions

Additional miles of bike lanes
Activity and GHG Reduction

Travel savings (VMT) 300,960 704,120 751,370
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 80 170 180

Performance Indicators

Total miles of bike lanes

GHG Method

The project team identified projected increase in bike lanes from implementation of the Bicycle Master Plan.
Based on the proposed additional miles of bike lanes in San Mateo, the team followed the recommendations of
the California Air Pollution Control Officer's Association to estimate the projected decrease in VMT as a result.
The team then applied the appropriate emissions factors to calculate the GHG reduction.

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

City of San Mateo. 2019. City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3944/Bicycle-
Master-Plan-Update.

| 1-38 City of San Mateo July 2023

233 of 599


--- page 234 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

ST 2 Pedestrian mode share

GHG Assumptions

It is assumed that all new development occurs in infill areas (areas with existing development)
Activity and GHG Reduction

Travel savings (VMT) 436,590 497,160 530520
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 110 120 130

Performance Indicators
There are no performance indicators associated with this measure.
GHG Method

Using the Pedestrian Master Plan, the project team identified the existing and planned miles of sidewalks and
pedestrian pathways in San Mateo. The team applied a method recommended by the California Air Pollution
Control Officers Association to determine the VMT reduction, and then applied the appropriate emissions factor
to calculate GHG reductions.

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

City of San Mateo. 2012. “Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan.” https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2218/Pedestrian-
Master-Plan

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-39. |

234 of 599


--- page 235 ---
APPENDIX 1

ST 3 Micromobility and shared mobility
GHG assumptions, activity and GHG reductions, and performance indicators.

This is a supportive measure, due to the lack of sufficient data or a feasible method of quantification that would
avoid double-counting reductions with other measures. As a result, there are no assumptions, activity or GHG
reductions, and performance indicators associated with this measure.

GHG Method
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions, so no calculations were made.
GHG Sources

Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions. There are no sources for GHG reduction
calculations for supportive measures.

ST 4 Public transit service

GHG Assumptions

Bus coverage 15% 20% 20%

Percent increase in Caltrain service 25% 40% 50%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) = 1(0),25)3},8}1 -23,468,340 -31,189,470
Travel savings (VMT) 13,770,100 23,451,790 29,098,510
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 3,610 5,660 6,910

Performance Indicators

| 1-40 City of San Mateo July 2023

235 of 599


--- page 236 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Bus commute share 15% 20% 20%
Average Caltrain daily ridership in San Mateo 8,070 12,900 S720
GHG Method

For increases in the bus coverage network, the project team made an assumption regarding the percentage
increase in bus network miles. Using methods from the California Air Pollution Control District, the project team
determined the VMT reduction that would occur given this increase in network coverage, and then applied the
appropriate GHG emissions factor. For an increase in Caltrain service frequency, the project team reviewed
Caltrain’s existing business plan and projected increases in service under the “Moderate Growth” scenario, then
applied this increase to San Mateo. Using factors from the inventory and existing/planned activity calculations,
the team determined the VMT reduction from increased Caltrain service as well as the increase in electricity use
due to Caltrain becoming a mostly electric system. The team applied the appropriate emissions factors to the
difference in VMT to calculate a reduction in emissions.

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

Caltrain. 2020. Caltrain Business Plan Summary Report.
https://www.caltrain.com/media/24042/download?inline.

Caltrain. 2019. Caltrain Business Plan: Developing a Long-Range Vision for Caltrain. https://caltrain2040.org/wp-
content/uploads/CBP_CIA R2 Booklet SanMateo-2.pdf.

U.S. Census Bureau. 2023. 2014 — 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates, BO8006: Sex of Workers
by Means of Transportation to Work [data table].

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | at |

236 of 599


--- page 237 ---
APPENDIX 1

ST 5 Commuter programs

GHG Assumptions

Percent of existing employers (pre-2006) participating in TDM 5% 20% 30%

Average trip reduction from voluntary TDM participation,

9 le) 9
beyond other CAP measures oe on ae

Activity and GHG Reduction

Travel savings (VMT) 15,290 218,640 669,000
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10 70 160

Performance Indicators

Existing (pre-2006) businesses participating in TDM efforts

GHG Method

The project team identified the amount of commute-related VMT from personal vehicles associated with existing
businesses and applied the projected metrics from voluntary participation in Transportation Demand
Management (TDM) programs to determine the total VMT reduction from implementation of this measure. The
team then used the appropriate emissions factors to calculate GHG reductions. It is assumed that these TDM
standards would go beyond trip reductions associated with other measures in the CAP, as the goal of TDM efforts
is to reduce trip generation below the level that would otherwise occur if the TDM requirement was not in place.

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

| 1-42 City of San Mateo July 2023

237 of 599


--- page 238 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

ST 6 Transportation Demand Management

GHG Assumptions

Percent of new developments subject to TDM rules 90% 90% 90%

Average trip reduction from new development

9 fe} 9
subject to TDM rules, beyond other CAP measures nes Igy au?

Activity and GHG Reduction

Travel savings (VMT) 7,646,580 32,944,170 56,484,350
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 2,010 7,950 13,410

Performance Indicators

Service population in new development (2018 and later)
; . 9,940 65,680 86,010
subject to the TDM ordinance 2 '

GHG Method

The project team determined the number of new people and jobs in developments that would be subject to
TDM rules, excluding those already identified through the existing and planned activities assessment. Using
projections of future TDM standards, the project team determined the amount of VMT that would be reduced
by future TDM requirements, then converted this reduction to a decrease in GHG emissions. It is assumed that
these TDM standards would go beyond trip reductions associated with other measures in the CAP, as the goal
of TDM efforts is to reduce trip generation below the level that would otherwise occur if the TDM requirement
was not in place.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-43 |

238 of 599


--- page 239 ---
APPENDIX 1

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

ST 7 Transit-oriented development

GHG Assumptions

Percent of new units in areas supporting transit-oriented

95% 95% 95%
development

Percent of new nonresidential square footage in areas supporting

9 9 9
transit-oriented development aki ewe zee

Activity and GHG Reduction

Travel savings (VMT) 38,865,630 78,398, 130 99,833,910
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 10,200 18,920 23,700

Performance Indicators

New development in 9,610 households and 20,330 households and 26,520 households and
TOD zones 7,350 employees 14,880 employees 18,970 employees
GHG Method

The project team identified the anticipated development in areas that support transit-oriented development and
used geospatial analysis to obtain a reasonable estimate of the new growth potential in these areas. The team
then used resources from the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association to determine the VMT reduction
associated with transit-oriented development in these areas, then applied the appropriate emissions factors to
calculate GHG reductions.

| 1-44 City of San Mateo July 2023

239 of 599


--- page 240 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

GHG Sources

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”

City of San Mateo. 2018. Area plans [GIS file].
City of San Mateo. 2018. SMRoadCenterline [GIS file].
Metropolitan Transportation Commission. 2017. Major_Transit_Stops_2017 [GIS file].

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-45 |

240 of 599


--- page 241 ---
APPENDIX 1

SW 1 Composting program

GHG Assumptions

Residential composting participation rate 90% 93% 95%

Nonresidential composting participation rate 85% 88% 90%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Waste savings (tons) 2,350 3,900 4,220
Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) 1,030 1710 1,850

Performance Indicators

Composting 47,270 households and 59,020 households and 66,800 households and
participation levels 3,890 businesses 4,510 businesses 4,880 businesses
GHG Method

The project team reviewed the number of future projected residences and nonresidential buildings participating
in the community's composting program, removing the currently participating customers to only focus on growth
in the composting program. The team used results of a statewide waste characterization study to estimate the
total amount of organic waste generated by the participants and combined this information with technical factors
for waste decomposition by materials to identify the total reduction in GHG emissions.

GHG Sources

California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting

of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories version doth.
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/Igo protocol v1 1 2010-05-03.pdf
California Air Resources Board. 2011. Landfill Emissions Tool version 1.3.

https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm

| 1-46 City of San Mateo July 2023

241 of 599


--- page 242 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 2020. 2018 Disposal-Facility-Based Characterization
of Solid Waste in California. https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1546.

City of San Mateo. 2022. 2022 Climate Action Plan Annual _ Progress Report.
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-Updates

SW 2 Expanded recycling service

GHG Assumptions

Target diversion rate 85% 88% 90%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Waste savings (tons) 9 860 12,570 14,330
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 6,070 7,730 8,820

Performance Indicators

Total tons of recyclables recovered (curbside bins only) 22,450 27,420 30,480
GHG Method

The project team looked at projections of how San Mateo’s diversion rate from curbside recycling may increase
in future years and used statewide waste characterization studies to identify the amounts of various material
types that could be recovered from this increase. The team then applied the results of technical studies about
waste decomposition to determine the total GHG reductions that would result from increased waste collection.

GHG Sources

California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories version Ah

https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo protocol v1 1 2010-05-03.pdf

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 1-47

242 of 599


--- page 243 ---
APPENDIX 1

California Air Resources Board. 2011. Landfill Emissions Tool version 1.3.

https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm

California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 2020. 2018 Disposal-Facility-Based Characterization
of Solid Waste in California. https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1666.

Chow, A. 2023. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. April 24.
SW 3 Waste awareness and source reduction

GHG Assumptions

Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage 5% 20% 50%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Waste savings (tons) 15,420 30/1 10 41,510
Emissions reduction (MTCO>ze) 2,080 4,050 5,590

Performance Indicators

Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage 15,420 30,110 41,510
sent to landfills

GHG Method

The project team looked at statewide waste characterization studies to determine the amount of materials being
produced in San Mateo that could not be recycled or composted (including construction and demolition wastes)
and used technical studies about waste characterization to determine the GHG emissions associated with a ton
of this waste material. The project team then examined projections about waste awareness potential to identify
how much of this waste could be reduced in future years and combined these two outcomes to determine the
total GHG savings.

| 1-48 City of San Mateo July 2023

243 of 599


--- page 244 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

GHG Sources

California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting

of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories version Pek.
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo protocol v1 1 2010-05-03.pdf
California Air Resources Board. 2011. Landfill Emissions Tool version 1.3.

https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm

California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 2020. 2078 Disposal-Facility-Based Characterization
of Solid Waste in California. https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1666.

WW 1 Water-efficiency retrofits for existing buildings

GHG Assumptions

Percent of existing homes retrofitting water fixtures 50% 70% 80%
Percent of existing businesses retrofitting water fixtures 40% 70% 80%
Percent of existing homes with greywater systems 5% 15% 20%
Percent of existing businesses with greywater systems 3% 10% 15%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 411,310 777,100 914,320
Water savings (millions of gallons) 160 280 340
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 170 300 360

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-49 |

244 of 599


--- page 245 ---
APPENDIX 1

Performance Indicators

19,890 existing homes and 27,840 existing homes and 31,820 existing homes and

Number of water 1,610 existing businesses 2,820 existing businesses 3,230 existing businesses
efficiency retrofits with water efficiency with water efficiency with water efficiency
retrofits. retrofits. retrofits.
UATE 4 2,120 homes and 120 6,360 homes and 400 8,480 homes and 610
greywater system : . ; : : :
: . businesses with greywater businesses with greywater businesses with greywater
installations as part . . .
systems installed. systems installed. systems installed.

of retrofit activities

GHG Method

Working on the assumption that half of greywater systems are laundry-to-landscaping, and that the other half
uses greywater from additional sources such as wash basins and showers, the project team identified the water
savings resulting from greywater systems for an individual home or business. The project team then used the
water savings to determine the decrease in electricity use and direct process emissions associated with this effort
per building, and then applied the projections of greywater installations at existing San Mateo buildings as part
of retrofit activities to identify the total water, electricity, and direct process emissions. The team applied the
appropriate electricity emissions coefficients to identify the additional GHG savings.

GHG Sources

Alliance for Water Efficiency. 2009. Making Every Drop Work: Increasing Water Efficiency tn California's
Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional (Cll) Sector.
https://www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org/resources/publications/making-every-drop-work-increasing-

water-efficiency-california%E2%80%99s-commercial.

California Department of Water Resources. 2013. California Water Plan 2013 Update, Volume 3, Chapter 3: Water
Use Efficiency.
http://toolbox.calwep.org/wiki/California Water Plan 2013 Update (selections)#tab=Vol 3 Ch 3 -

Water Use Efficiency.

California Department of Water Resources. 2017. Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life:

Implementing Executive Order B-37-16. https://water.ca.gov/-/media/DWR-Website/Web-

| 1-50 | City of San Mateo July 2023

245 of 599


--- page 246 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

Pages/Programs/Water-Use-And-Efficiency/Make-Water-Conservation-A-California-Way-of-Life/County-

Drought-Planning/Files/Making-Water-Conservation-a-CA-Way-of-Life-EO-B-37-16.pdf.

WW 2 Water-efficient landscaping

GHG Assumptions

Reduction in total outdoor water use 10% 20% 25%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 374,760 827,380 1,086,620

Water savings (millions of gallons) 260 570 750

Emissions reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10 10 0
GHG Method

The team estimated the total water use that occurs outdoors in San Mateo and determined the amount that
would be reduced based on assumed participation levels. The project team then used the water savings to
determine the decrease in electricity use associated with this effort and applied the appropriate electricity
emissions coefficients to identify the GHG savings.

GHG Sources
There are no sources for this measure beyond the inventory and forecast.
WW 3 Water efficiency in new construction

GHG Assumptions

Percent of new homes installing greywater systems 8% 20% 25%

Percent of new businesses installing greywater systems 5% 15% 20%

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 1-51 |

246 of 599


--- page 247 ---
APPENDIX 1

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) 7,620 40,580 66,320
Water savings (millions of gallons) 10 30 50
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) Less than 10 10 10

Performance Indicators

Number of new homes with greywater systems 4,280 6,980
Number of new businesses with greywater systems 30 160 280
GHG Method

Working on the assumption that half of greywater systems are laundry-to-landscaping, and that the other half
uses greywater from additional sources such as wash basins and showers, the project team identified the water
savings resulting from greywater systems for an individual home or business. The project team then used the
water savings to determine the decrease in electricity use and direct process emissions associated with this effort
per building, and then applied the projections of greywater installations at new San Mateo buildings to identify
the total water, electricity, and direct process emissions. The team applied the appropriate electricity emissions
coefficients to identify the additional GHG savings.

GHG Sources

Alliance for Water Efficiency. 2009. Making Every Drop Work: Increasing Water Efficiency tn California’s
Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional (CI) Sector.
https://www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org/resources/publications/making-every-drop-work-increasing-

water-efficiency-california%E2%80%99s-commercial.

California Department of Water Resources. 2013. California Water Plan 2013 Update, Volume 3, Chapter 3: Water
Use Efficiency.
http://toolbox.calwep.org/wiki/California Water Plan 2013 Update (selections)#tab=Vol 3 Ch 3 -
Water Use Efficiency.

| 4-52 City of San Mateo July 2023

247 of 599


--- page 248 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS

California Department of Water Resources. 2017. Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life:

Implementing Executive Order B-37-16. https://water.ca.gov/-/media/DWR-Website/Web-

Pages/Programs/Water-Use-And-Efficiency/Make-Water-Conservation-A-California-Way-of-Life/County-

Drought-Planning/Files/Making-Water-Conservation-a-CA-Way-of-Life-EO-B-37-16.pdf.

OR 1 Alternative fuel off-road equipment

GHG Assumptions

Percent of landscaping equipment that uses electricity 20% 45% 60%
Percent of other off-road equipment that uses electricity 15% 25% 30%

Activity and GHG Reduction

Electricity savings (kWh) -2,201,600 -4, 633,000 -6,091,990
Emissions reduction (MTCOze) 3,660 7,130 9,890
GHG Method

The team used data from the California Air Resources Board and the inventory to identify the reduction in direct
emissions per percent of landscaping equipment and non-landscaping off-road equipment converted to
electricity traded in. The team then estimated the decrease in gasoline and diesel fuel resulting from this effort
and used information about energy density to determine the increase in electricity needs. The team estimated
the GHG increase from greater electricity needs and subtracted this from the emission reduction from decreased
fuel use to determine the net GHG reduction.

GHG Sources

Alternative Fuels Data Center. 2014. Alternative Fuels Data Center -— Fuel Properties Comparison.
https://afdc.energy.gov/fuels/fuel comparison chart.pdf/
California Air Resources Board. 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database."

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | eS |

248 of 599


--- page 249 ---
APPENDIX 1

This page has no content.

| 1-54 City of San Mateo July 2023

249 of 599


--- page 250 ---
City of

“-* San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Appendix 2:

CAP Measure Key
Metrics

This appendix summarizes the items that the City will use to track implementation of the CAP. As part of San
Mateo’s ongoing CAP monitoring and implementation efforts, the City will track progress on the implementation
of individual measures. The City will collect specific pieces of data, known as key metrics, for each measure,
including the planned actions. These key metrics will be used to identify the implementation status of each
measure. City staff, utility companies, and state and regional agencies collect the key metrics to track CAP
implementation. Some data may be collected through the Development Checklist in Appendix 3. Specific
information about the sources of each key metric is given in the monitoring tool. The key metrics are shown in
Table 2-1.



--- page 251 ---
APPENDIX 2

Table 2-1: CAP Measure Key Metrics

Time Lead Key Metric
Frame Department y

All-electric new

- Number of all-electric new

City Manager's construction residential housing units.

BE 1 ; Near-term Office, Community - Square feet of all-electric new
construction F : :
Development construction non-residential
buildings.
- Number of existing homes with gas
to electric HVAC conversions.
. ow. City Manager's - Square feet of existing office
BE 2 nee om Near-term Office, Community buildings with gas to electric HVAC
g Development conversions.
- Number of parking spaces at existing
office buildings with EV charging.
Peninsula Clean ; : . - PCE opt-out rate.
RE 1 | diate CityM ‘s Off
Energy CE ee eS kWh supplied by ECO 100
Renewable energy : : - Number of homes built before 2018
City Manager's .
systems for new . . . with solar panels.
RE 2 a Immediate Office, Community a
and existing - Number of total homes (existing and
. Development .
residences new) with battery energy systems.
Renewable energy . ; - Number of businesses built before
systems for new City Manager's :
re : . . 2018 with solar panels.
RE 3 and existing Immediate Office, Community _ . .
: : - Number of existing businesses with
nonresidential Development batt A
buildings attery energy systems.
. ; City Manager's
lee | Residential energy Near-term Office, Community - Number of homes retrofitted.
efficiency retrofits
Development
Nonresidential City Manager's
EE energy efficiency Near-term Office, Community - Number of businesses retrofitted.

retrofits

| = | City of San Mateo

Development

July 2023

251 of 599


--- page 252 ---
CAP MEASURE KEY METRICS

Time Lead Key Metric
Frame Department y

: . City Manager's .
cE 3 Residential tree Micetenmal Grice Rarkeand Number of households with shade

lantings : trees.
P g Recreation

Energy efficiency City Manager's

ME 1 for new municipal Mid-term Otiies, Publievorks None — supportive measure.

buildings

Energy efficiency

at existing ' City Manager's - Square footage of retrofitted
Mee municipal Medi tet Office, Public Works municipal buildings.

buildings

All-electric . : Square feet of existing municipal
Wee | areca ongeenn City Manager's buildings electrified.

Ending: Office, Public Works —- Square feet of new municipal

buildings electrified.

- Number of parking spaces at new
nonresidential buildings with EV

Electric vehicle aly batted ahs : oes : a
. : Office, Community - Number of parking spaces at existing
CF 1 charging Immediate : : i a
‘THASSRRICHUTE Development, Public nonresidential buildings (not
Works including offices) with EV charging.
- Number of parking spaces at existing
multifamily units with EV charging.
Electric vehicle GieaMeqaceds - Estimated number of TNCs operating
. . é . in San Mateo that are EVs.
(OF 2 education and Immediate Office, Community . .
- Number of residents contacted with
outreach Development

EV marketing materials.
- Fleet EV VMT.

CF 3 Clean City fleet Near-term Public Works plea Bieraciiiane inne

City Manager's

CEA Clean fuel Lonesig Office, Community | = Number of hydrogen vehicles
Development, Public registered.
Works

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | ae |

252 of 599


--- page 253 ---
APPENDIX 2

Time Lead Key Metric
Frame Department y

Bicycle mode Community
S71 Y Mid-term Development, Public - Total miles of bike lanes.
share
Works
. Community . . .
ST 2 Pedestrian mode Neqetenn Pevclieta erate | 7 Percent increase in pedestrian
share sidewalks and pathways.
Works
Micromobility and City Manager's .
S32 shared mobility Near-term Office. Public Works None — supportive measure.
ST 4 Public transit Nea econ City Manager S - Bus MET GE GSS
services Office, Public Works _ - Caltrain service frequency.
City Manager's
ST5 Commuter Mid-term Office, Community - Pre-2006 businesses participating in
programs Development, Public TDM efforts.
Works
Transportation Community - Service population in new
ST 6 Demand Immediate Development, Public development subject to the TDM
Management Works ordinance.
Sn 7 (anit Oneniee Near-term SOMA: - New development in TOD zones.
development Development
SW 1 SOmBeSUNe) Immediate Public Works - Composting participation levels.
program
SW 2 Evrard : Near-term Public Works - Total tons of recyclables recovered.
recycling service
Waste awareness ; - Decrease in non-organic and non-
City Manager's
SW3 and source Near-term . . recyclable waste tonnage sent to
. Office, Public Works .
reduction landfills.
Water efficiency - Number of water efficiency retrofits.
WW 1 _ retrofits for Mid-term — Public Works - Number of greywater system
existing buildings installations in existing buildings.
. City Manager's
WW 2 Me eianigighy: Near-term Office, Parks and - Estimated outdoor water use

landscaping Recreation

| 24 City of San Mateo July 2023

253 of 599


--- page 254 ---
CAP MEASURE KEY METRICS

Time Lead Key Metric
Frame Department y

Water efficiency in

WW 3 .
new construction

Alternative fuel
OR 1 lawn and garden
equipment

July 2023

Mid-term

Mid-term

- Number of new homes with
Community greywater systems.
Development - Number of new businesses with
greywater systems.

- Estimated percent of landscaping

City Mandel equipment that uses electricity.
Office, Parks and . .

- Estimated percent of non-landscaping
Recreation

equipment that uses electricity.

Climate Action Plan | as |

254 of 599


--- page 255 ---
255 of 599


--- page 256 ---
City of

o %
As J
CArmoe San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Appendix 3:

CAP Consistency
Checklist

The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project complies
with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, demonstrating the City’s
strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP are eligible for
streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this checklist for
informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples of projects
inconsistent with the City’s forecast include:

e Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.

e General Plan amendments.

e New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan
buildout scenario.



--- page 257 ---
APPENDIX 3

Development Checklist
Project Description Characteristics

Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document).

1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?

PT

2) Identify the applicable land uses:

Residential
Commercial
Industrial
Manufacturing
Other

3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?

Single-family residences:

Multi-family residences:
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land use:

pT

5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?

Yes No

If yes, please explain:

| = | City of San Mateo July 2023

257 of 599


--- page 258 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST

6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?

Yes No
If so, which one?
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.

Standards for CAP Consistency — New Development

Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard aie

BE 1: All new development: The project does Ves

not have natural gas connections, and does not No Additional notes:
have any natural gas appliances or other
equipment installed N/A
RE 2. All new developments with residential If yes, what is the kW potential of the
units: The project includes an on-site renewable Y€S renewable energy system?
energy system that meets or exceeds the No
minimum requirements of the California State N/A Additional notes:
Building Code
If yes, how much electricity does the
RE 2. All new developments with residential  Y°S system store?
units: The project includes an on-site energy No
storage system, such as a battery. N/A Additional notes:

If yes, what is the kW potential of the

RE 3. All new developments with
Yes renewable energy system?

nonresidential space: The project includes an
on-site renewable energy system that meets or No

exceeds the minimum requirements of the N/A Additional notes:
California State Building Code

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | ae |

258 of 599


--- page 259 ---
APPENDIX 3

Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard ee

RE 3. All new developments with
nonresidential space: The project includes an
on-site energy storage system, such as a
battery.

EE 3. All new developments with residential
units: The project includes trees that provide
shade to residences.

CF 1. All new development with dedicated
off-street parking: The project includes
parking spaces with installed EV chargers or are
pre-wired for EV chargers, consistent with state
and any local regulations.

CF 1. All new development with dedicated
off-street parking: The project includes
parking spaces with installed EV chargers that
are accessible by members of the public beyond
those who live and/or work at the project.

[=] City of San Mateo

Yes
No
N/A

Yes
No
N/A

Yes
No
N/A

Yes
No
N/A

If yes, how much electricity does the
system store?

Additional notes:

If yes, how many residences are
shaded by newly planted trees?

Additional notes:

If yes, how many spaces include
installed EV chargers?

If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers?

Additional notes:

If yes, how many spaces with
installed EV chargers are accessible
by members of the public?

If yes, how many Level 3 chargers
installed as part of this project are
publicly accessible?

Additional notes:

July 2023

259 of 599


--- page 260 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST

Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard ee

ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of
nonresidential space: Implement TDM
strategies to comply with the appropriate trip
reduction target identified in applicable area
plans and San Mateo Citywide TDM Plan.

ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential
space undergoing additions or alterations (as
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code
Section 23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies
consistent with the targets in relevant area plans
and the San Mateo Citywide TDM Plan.

ST 7. All new development: Be located along
El Camino Real, within one-half mile of any
Caltrain station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit
Oriented Development or Hillsdale Station Area
Plan areas.

July 2023

Yes
No
N/A

Yes
No
N/A

Yes
No
N/A

If yes, what is the trip reduction
target for the project?

% short-term commute trip
reduction

% long-term commute trip
reduction

What strategies will the project use
to achieve these trip reduction
targets?

Additional notes:

If yes, what is the trip reduction
target for the project?

% short-term commute trip
reduction

% long-term commute trip
reduction

What strategies will the project use
to achieve these trip reduction
targets?

Additional notes:

Additional notes:

Climate Action Plan | 25 |

260 of 599


--- page 261 ---
APPENDIX 3

Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard ee

Does the project participate in any
composting programs?

SW 1. All developments with multifamily Veg
units or nonresidential space: Provide an area No Does the project compost on-site?
of sufficient space to store and allow access to a

N/A

compost bin.
Additional notes:

If yes, is the greywater system
“laundry-to-landscape” or another

Hs type of system?

No
N/A

WW 3. All new development: Include a
greywater system.
Additional notes:

| =] City of San Mateo July 2023

261 of 599


--- page 262 ---
sco,  _ Utyof

“~~ San Mateo

Climate Action Plan

Appendix 4:

Summary of
Community Workshop

The City, with support from the PlaceWorks and DNV GL consultant team, hosted a community meeting for the
Climate Action Plan (CAP) update on Thursday, June 6, 2019, from 6:00 to 8:00 pm at the San Mateo Public
Library.

The purpose of this workshop was to provide community members with an overview of the 2015 CAP and the
CAP update process, the results of the new and updated GHG inventory, and the new and revised GHG mitigation
measures that will be included in the updated CAP. This workshop offered an opportunity to receive feedback
on the measures and suggest additional reduction measures for the CAP.

City staff and members of the consultant team facilitated the workshop. Approximately 50 community members
attended and participated. The workshop included a presentation about the CAP update and a summary of work-
to-date, a question-and-answer period, and an open house that allowed participated to review draft GHG
reduction measures, provide input, and engage with staff, consultants, and other community members.
Community members reviewed the proposed measures by placing colored dots next to each measure: green for
measures they supported, yellow for measures they supported with some reservations or concerns, and red for
measures they did not support.



--- page 263 ---
APPENDIX 4

The following results are organized by poster topic and present the number and type of dots for each measure
(green, yellow, or red) and any open comments received on sticky notes and easel pads. No comment cards were
submitted during the meeting, although some additional comments were submitted later via email.

BOARD 1: RENEWABLE ENERGY

Measure 1: Continue to support Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) and
encourage residents and businesses not already participating in PCE, 17 1 0
especially large energy users, to join.

Measure 2: Continue promoting renewable energy systems for new homes

and businesses with education and incentives. 2 2 0
Measure 3: Continue to encourage property owners to install renewable 42 3 0
energy systems on existing homes and businesses.

Measure 4: Renew San Mateo’s requirement for new buildings to include 11 3 1
solar panels, going beyond state requirements.

Measure 5: Promote battery storage systems as a part of renewable energy 3 6 0
installations.

Measure 6: Set up microgrid demonstration projects. 5 5 1

Renewable Energy Open Comments

Measure 4: We need a way to store power from PV to use at night, check out Sandford's [sic] Central Energy
Facility’s thermal storage/heat recovery.

Measure 4: More infill to reduce VMT.
Measure 6: There are a lot of bigger things we can do.

Measure 5: Batteries — What level of support will this provide? For whom? How rapidly will today’s batteries
become obsolete if the technology is evolving rapidly?

Will microgrid demonstration have a significant impact?

= |] City of San Mateo July 2023

263 of 599


--- page 264 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

On/Off grid solar installs - reduce fees if install option to supply power when PCE down to house/buildings.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | |

264 of 599


--- page 265 ---
APPENDIX 4

BOARD 2: ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION

Measure 1: Continue to provide education about energy efficiency retrofits
to residents and businesses, including information about financing.

Measure 2: Provide incentives for energy efficiency retrofits. 11 1 0
Measure 3: Establish a program to require home energy assessments at 12 3 0
the time of sale.

Measure 4: Provide incentives for all-electric new construction. 7 1 0)
Measure 5: Encourage upgrades to existing buildings to support all- 9 0 0
electric operations.

Measure 6: New municipal buildings and facilities will be all-electric or will 9 1 0

use alternative fuels.

Measure 7: Establish a commercial and multi-family energy conservation
benchmarking program and offer low- or no-cost energy audits to rental 11 0) 0)
properties and business.

Measure 8: Continue to conduct energy efficiency retrofits for existing
municipal buildings.

Energy Efficiency and Conservation Open Comments

Require Net Zero on existing homes.

Cut energy use everywhere else in the US that is hotter and/or colder than San Mateo: urban infill.
Urge people to wear sweaters etc.

Incentivize cleaner emission leaf blowers (continuing the work sustainability commission started in 2018 then
halted).

Make a contest, who can reduce their emissions? Or compare vs. an average.

Require by law, plus shift housing to the public sector.

| 44 City of San Mateo July 2023

265 of 599


--- page 266 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

Prioritize PCE 100 — how does it compare to home retrofits?
Ban military recruiters so our citizens don't participate in the world’s worst institutional emitter: the US military.

Incentivize won't save us. If we want to stop Armageddon, we must require sustainable to Its fullest extent, right
now!

BOARD 3: ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION

Measure 1: Expand the public shuttle system in San Mateo, including using

a3
microtransit to provide first-mile and last-mile connections.

Measure 2: Continue to support reduction of commuter-related vehicle
trips through the City’s Transportation Demand Management program 11 1 0
and other employer-focused programs.

Measure 3: Expand carpool options for San Mateo residents and

=] 4 1
commuters.
Measure 4: Implement the Bicycle Master Plan and continue to support
we é 22 0 1
additional shared mobility options.
Measure 5: Continue to make walking a safe and easy way to get around
27 0 0
San Mateo.
Measure 6: Increase transit-oriented developments along El Camino Real 32 3 0
and near Caltrain stations.
Measure 7: Support new rapid bus transit routes. 14 1 0
Measure 8: Improve the frequency of Caltrain services, particularly to the 17 1 0

Hayward Park station.

Alternative Transportation Open Comments
Increase penalty for stealing bicycles.

Encourage mixed-use development to reduce SOV.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 45 |

266 of 599


--- page 267 ---
APPENDIX 4

Close B Street to car traffic and institute shuttle to encourage less driving in City core.
Help change mindset of Peninsula re: BART/Bus Service.

Spend more on GHG Reduction than road maintenance and more truck free roads (weight and potholes) and
more car free walking streets.

Eliminate traffic deaths for pedestrians and bicyclists with Vision Zero. New York City is good example.
Sierra Club recommends dividend account parking.

San Mateo needs to be much more bike friendly. 1) more dedicated lanes, 2) lights triggered by bike, 3) Require
businesses like Safeway to have bike racks. (1 green)

Citywide mobility targets: Portland does it with target mode share (1 green)
Increase buses and vans use. Incentivize use, increases status of transit use.
More east-west transit opportunities shuttles, scooter, etc.!

Increase bike boulevards and bike infrastructure.

Work from home!!

Need bus-only lanes and transit signal priority. (2 greens)

Bike Streets work North/South (Claremont, Edinburg, Flores).

Create bus routes that allow access to natural public spaces like Laurelwood park and Purisima Creek. This will
create love for nature and drive action.

Ridesharing kills public transit, congest streets, and abuses workers. The City must impose a heavy cap on Uber
& Lyft vehicles to save our streets.

Light intersections that are triggered by bikes.
Educate residents and visitors on their impacts while driving.

What can the City do to reduce people idling in their cars? (1 green)

City of San Mateo July 2023

267 of 599


--- page 268 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

Affordable housing = reduced GHGs (2 greens)

Fewer cars, more public transit! Increased frequency in bus service, other non-car modes.
Affordable housing for workers = fewer trip = lower GHG where Is housing in the CAP?
Change the topic/sector name - alternative to what?

BOARD 4: ALTERNATIVE FUELS

Measure 1: Require all new buildings to have EV charging infrastructure.

Measure 2: Continue to encourage EV charging infrastructure in existing

homes and businesses. : :
Measure 3: Continue to install EV charging infrastructure in public parking 17 0 1
lots and garages.
Measure 4: Transition San Mateo’s municipal fleet to electric and other 15 1 0
clean-energy vehicles.
Measure 5: Continue to educate community members about the

a ian : i 4 4
availability of hybrid and clean-fuel landscaping equipment.
Measure 6: Buy hybrid and clean-fuel landscaping equipment for 11 0 0

municipal use as options are available.

Alternative Fuels Open Comments
Measure 3: Battery Ready

Measure 5: Very low hanging fruit compared to something as important as diet, which is not even mentioned
so far. Topic 4, Measure 5

Measure 5: Start with large properties like churches, help them through issues like extension cord length limits
(if they exist).

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 4-7

268 of 599


--- page 269 ---
APPENDIX 4

Measure 5: Go beyond education. Need a competitive “green yard” program for homeowners. Need to
incentivize or network commercial properties and churches to transitions them ASAP. The landowners already
have equipment for Menlo Park and Atherton!

Measure 5: Ordinance to restrict gas landscape equipment.
EVs are great but often not affordable could there be financial incentives and subsidy?

More community charging stations are needed. Will Measure 1 create charging stations that can be shared by
the public? Even by registering them with the building or something?

Measure 2: Provide incentives!!

Measure 5: This will work as well as abstinence-only sex ED

Biodiesel incentives? Can reduce net carbon emissions and use waste oil.
You always mention El. Cars = No!!! Go hydrogen!

Change the topic/sector name — alternative to what?

Boarp 5: SOLID WASTE

Measure 1: Continue to expand San Mateo’s composting

program to businesses and multi-family homes. &

Measure 2: Accept new types of materials in recycling bins as
economics allow.

Measure 3: Create a materials reuse program and educate
community members about ways to make unwanted items 11 2 1
available for reuse.

Measure 4: Explore a ban on single-use plastics. 22 6 (Do it! Just do it!) 0

Measure 5: Work with waste haulers to reduce contamination of

recyclables. ie L :

| 3 | City of San Mateo July 2023

269 of 599


--- page 270 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

Solid Waste Open Comments

Multi-family composting opportunities are a must!! You can also put the collection points in parks and around
the community!

If composting in multi-family units is problematic, at least offer compost drop off points through the City!
Recycling info keeps changing. We need way better educations.

Create a mass distribution program for reusable bottle, paid for through business tax hikes.

My condo association will be charged if we get composting so we don't compost.

Solid waste = 3% of the GHG. These programs are good but please do not use a lot of $$.

More guidance is needed about good vs. poor recycling habits. (what plastics are good)

Be able to recycle black plastic or don't allow it to be used. (1 green)

| wish we could get more compost delivered to our houses.

Biweekly recycling and garbage pickup instead of weekly? Other cities have tried this. Since San
Francisco/Recology has one of the best recycling/zero waste programs in the USA, why not excel at it here in San
Mateo! If pickups were fewer, folks might be motivated (or forced) to decrease their waste. Fewer pickups also
means less fuel/energy wasted by the trucks.

Tax consumers for clamshells in packaging — like plastic bags.
Measure 4: reusable bags require more energy to produce... causing more production.
Stop selling chemicals — pass an ordinance.

People are either uneducated or lazy/noncompliant RE putting items in the correct bins. Adding different/more
bins won't work because of this. (2 greens)

Work with Trader Joes, Safeway, etc. to reduce clamshell packaging.

New accurate recycle bin labels for everyone.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 49 |

270 of 599


--- page 271 ---
APPENDIX 4

Offer better rates for very low trash creation. Smaller waste cans? Alternate week collection?
Reduce uses at the source, require take back of packaging (3 greens)

Be able to recycle plastic bags that have the recycle symbol.

Encourage reduce purchases consumption. (1 green)

Encourage stores like Costco to put (business + social) pressure on their venders to use recyclable packaging
(not plastics). When venders figure out recyclable packaging, they should let their customers know about the
efforts they have made to solve a problem that affects everyone. Mae it a win-win-win situation.

| 4-10 City of San Mateo July 2023

271 of 599


--- page 272 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

BOARD 6: WATER AND WASTEWATER

Measure 1: Continue to work with water providers and regional

21
agencies to encourage water-efficient retrofits of existing buildings.

Measure 2: Require new developments to meet higher water

efficiency standards. Ie ! °

Water and Wastewater Open Comments

The current CAP should be renamed “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Plan”

The CAP should include water and waste conservation, recycle, reduction mechanisms. (1 green)
Green lawn/yard competition among homeowners.

We need a water committee to implement best practices.

Is there local support for existing greywater systems?

| wish that there was information to have domestic greywater. (Help in putting it in) (5 greens)
Recycle water from treatment plant. (4 greens)

Can the City investigate rainwater collection for use by City and residents?

Are there incentives for lawn replacement/xeriscaping/use of native landscaping?

Lawns are a huge source of water use. They should be abolished!

Large lots and sprawl leads to wasted water for irrigation.

Ban green lawns. (1 green, 1 yellow)

Provide realistic incentives for homeowners to get rid of lawns. Too expensive right now. (1 green)

Can the wastewater treatment plant be run on a schedule that helps address duck curve?

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | att |

272 of 599


--- page 273 ---
APPENDIX 4

Educate people with sprinklers to not water the sidewalks!

Looks like real problem is behavior of individual’s free will.

Follow best practices from more arid places (landscaping water, recycle water, flow meters on faucets, fix leaks)
Eliminate garbage disposals in new construction and retrofits.

Incentivize water reuse, especially in new development and public buildings (Use SFPUC model). (1 green).

Adopt better water demand management, including conservation, like SFPUC’s programs. Reduce outdoor
irrigation by 70%.

Aim for 5% reduced imported water by 2024.

BOARD 7: WHAT’S Your BIG IDEA?

Open comments
Plant more trees.

Plant trees and gardens, every $1 in trees returns $2.5 in value to the community. California Billion Tree Initiative.
(10 greens)

Build housing here and plant trees elsewhere. (1 green)

Increase the urban tree canopy where possible. (2 greens)

Do not allow wood burnings in fireplaces or building FP in new buildings. (1 green)
Explore rainwater collection for use by city and residents.

To reduce traffic and auto emissions on Hillsdale Ave, employ The Boring Company to put a tunnel under
Hillsdale Avenue (2 greens, 5 reds)

Local public free telecommuting centers, reduce VMTs from commuters, keep people and money in San Mateo.

Affordable housing reduced worker trips where is that in CAP? (1 green)

| 23h | City of San Mateo July 2023

273 of 599


--- page 274 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

More communication/educations on climate change and CO2 emissions.
Allow for micro units and affordable housing.

Don't let people cut and trim existing trees and shrubs for view.

Require more from residents (instead of “encourage’”). (2 greens)

Bring back recycling stations at Safeway.

The US Military is one of the largest institutional GHG emitters worldwide. Ban military recruiters from San Mateo
and stop the rolling war machine in our City.

Include a program for carbon sequestration and offsets.

Ban leaf blowers and gas-powered landscape equipment. (3 greens, 1 red)
e Need a way to transition this would hurt all the gardeners.

No Amazon infrastructure in San Mateo.

Annual reporting of GHG: Mountain View does this and allocates $10k/year. Sectors can be adjusted for
compliance.

Promote the local “I heart rakes and brooms” campaign.
Send a link to all San Mateo residents that helps them calculate their carbon footprint.

Encourage competition among homeowners to use electric lawn equipment to “lose your lawn”, to practice
permaculture/plant native plants/use IPM methods. Create a City competition!

Determine San Mateo’s “earth overshoot” day to raise awareness.

Public housing for all! (With solar panels) (1 green)

City government should fund clothing and farming co-ops in our community to reduce reliance on global trade.
Encourage cooperative businesses (worker owned). Expansion isn’t profit seeking drive our crisis and must stop.

Please design new housing near transit centers to have at most car space. Maybe happening already.

July 2023 Climate Action Plan 4-13

274 of 599


--- page 275 ---
APPENDIX 4

Count on per capita basis and not a total basis.

To avoid 2 degree C temperature rise, there must be a robust system of carbon capture by 2030! (1 green)
Raise the height limit on buildings. (5 greens)

Take advantage of our volunteer hours needed by master composter participants — 40 hours each.

Urban infill: UC Berkeley rates urban infill in the City of San Mateo #1 among all rated measures visit:
coolclimate.berkeley.edu/ca-scenarios/index.html. (2 greens)

When we add jobs but not housing, we should count 100% of those commute emissions.

Make GHG’s info public => competitions in neighborhoods to retrofit/reduce fossil energy use? Smart Meters?
Charge new businesses setting up shop in San Mateo a “sustainability” tax to fund all these projects. (1 green)
Pedestrian overpass at Hillsdale/Highway 101. (3 greens)

More density causes miserable traffic. (1 red)

San Mateo to provide water barrels at cost and volunteer installers too much water is lost.

According to many studies, reaching greenhouse reduction goals without the world adapting a plant-based diet
is impossible. Many people in San Mateo are not aware that they can contribute greatly to GHG lowering by
modifying their diet. San Mateo should encourage diet change. (3 greens, 1 red)

Increased densities in SFH and transit-oriented areas. Infill housing helps to reduce VMTs. (3 greens)
Implement UN Agenda 21.

Please ban leaf blowers!! Exhaust + PM in the air! (1 green)

Encourage infill development instead of greenfield development.

Figure how to encourage plant-based diet education? (w/ groceries, schools, etc.) Taxes on meat? Don't’ just say
we have no control over that. (2 greens)

Meatless Monday or eating 1x per day instead of twice. Could this be worked into schools or civic buildings?

| 414 City of San Mateo July 2023

275 of 599


--- page 276 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP

Composting toilets save water, reduce methane, turn waste into resources. Make legal, they don’t stink!

To reduce commutes and traffic, subsidize ADUs in neighborhoods w/ larger lots, houses, and parking available.
(1 green)

Way more outreach to non-English speakers. (1 green)

Make sure to do outreach to non-English speakers and people not on City email lists.
MISCELLANEOUS COMMENTS

Clarifications on process of accounting GHGs, timeline, state vs local actions.

Solar panels — why need in light of PCE? What about city buildings.

Cement emissions- embedded emissions of development.

Data — on implementation measures for example — cool climate Berkeley .edu — consumption based calcs —
concerns on highest impact including embedded emissions (infill as example).

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 41s |

276 of 599


--- page 277 ---
APPENDIX 4

July 2023 Climate Action Plan | 416 |

277 of 599


--- page 278 ---
2020 CLIMATE ACTION PLAN
Adopted by the San Mateo City Council on April 6, 2020 by Resolution 31(2020)
Technical Update – MayJuly 2023, Public Review Draft 
Prepared for the City of San Mateo by:
PlaceWorks in collaboration with DNV GL
278 of 599

--- page 279 ---
279 of 599

--- page 280 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (2020)
City of San Mateo
City Council
Mayor Joe Goethals 
Deputy Mayor  Eric Rodriguez
Council Member Rick Bonilla 
Council Member Amourence Lee 
Council Member Diane Papan
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Rafael Reyes, Chair
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Greg St. Clair
Jackie Nuñez
Planning Commission
Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams
City Staff
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director 
Julia Klein, Principal Planner 
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner
Alice Chen, Plan Check Supervisor
Roxanne Murray, Solid Waste and
Recycling Program Coordinator
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
David Fink, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
280 of 599

--- page 281 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTSACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
ii
City of San Mateo
February 2015July 2023
281 of 599

--- page 282 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTSACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
iii
City of San Mateo
January 2020
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (2023)
City of San Mateo
City Council
Mayor Amourence Lee
Deputy Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash
Council Member Adam Loraine
Council Member Rob Newsom Jr.
Council Member Rich Hedges
Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
282 of 599

--- page 283 ---
283 of 599

--- page 284 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................................................................................1
Purpose of the Climate Action Plan.................................................................................................................................................1
Key Outcomes of the CAP ...................................................................................................................................................................3
Chapter 1 Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................13
Purpose.....................................................................................................................................................................................................14
Climate Change Science ....................................................................................................................................................................15
Local Context..........................................................................................................................................................................................24
Regulatory Framework .......................................................................................................................................................................27
Climate Action Planning Process....................................................................................................................................................30
Chapter 2 Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Forecasts, and Reduction Targets.................................................................35
Background.............................................................................................................................................................................................35
Baseline Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory...........................................................................................................................35
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Forecast.............................................................................................................................................43
GHG Emissions Reduction Targets ................................................................................................................................................46
Chapter 3 Strategies to Achieve the Targets................................................................................................................................49
Revised and New GHG Reduction Measures.............................................................................................................................58
Chapter 4 Implementation.....................................................................................................................................................................98
Implementing the Climate Action Plan........................................................................................................................................98
Implementation Measures................................................................................................................................................................99
Work Plan..............................................................................................................................................................................................100
Glossary.........................................................................................................................................................................................................106
Appendix 1: Technical Appendix: Methods and Assumptions...........................................................................................1-1
Appendix 2: CAP Measure Key Metrics..........................................................................................................................................2-1
Appendix 3: CAP Consistency Checklist.........................................................................................................................................3-1
Appendix 4: Summary of Community Workshop.....................................................................................................................4-1
284 of 599

--- page 285 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ii
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
TABLES
Table ES-1: Reductions from Existing and Planned Accomplishments
7
Table ES-2: Reductions by Measure
8
Table 1:
California Climate Change Impacts
19
Table 2:
San Mateo Population (2005 – 2019)
39
Table 3:
San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions
40
Table 4:
San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide Emissions
41
Table 5: 
San Mateo 2005 and 2019 Community Emissions (Per-Capita)
43
Table 6:
San Mateo 2019, 2030, 2040, and 2045 Growth Indicators
43
Table 7:
San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals
45
Table 8:
San Mateo Emissions with CAP Implementation (2030 – 2045)
49
Table 9:
Reductions from CAP Measures (2030 – 2045)
50
Table 10:
San Mateo Community-Wide GHG Emissions Reductions from State Programs
53
Table 11:
Emissions Reductions from Local and Regional Programs
57
Table 12:
Emissions with Existing and Planned Efforts
57
Table 13:
GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e)
95
Table 14:
CAP Implementation Work Plan
102
Table 1-1:
Emissions Coefficients for CAP Measures
1-2
Table 2-1: CAP Measure Key Metrics
2-2
285 of 599

--- page 286 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
iii
FIGURES
Figure ES-1:CAP Timeline
3
Figure ES-2:GHG Inventory Sectors
4
Figure ES-3:2019  GHG Emissions
5
Figure 1:
 The Greenhouse Effect
16
Figure 2:
Potential Global Temperature Increases
18
Figure 3:
Historic and Projected Snowpack Levels Impacting San Mateo’s Water Supply
20
Figure 4:
Sea Level Rise in San Mateo (2100)
22
Figure 5:
San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)
40
Figure 6:
San Mateo 2005-2019 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)
42
Figure 7:
CAP Co-Benefits
60
Figure 8:
San Mateo GHG Emissions with Reduction Measures, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e)
96
286 of 599

--- page 287 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
iv
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Sidewalk art from the City’s 2014 Downtown Cleanup.
Photo by City of San Mateo 
287 of 599

--- page 288 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
v
List of Abbreviations 
Acronym/Abbreviation
Term
AB
Assembly Bill
ABAG
Association of Bay Area Governments 
BAAQMD
Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
BAU
business-as-usual
CALGreen
California Green Building Standards 
CAP
Climate Action Plan 
CARB
California Air Resources Board 
C/CAG
City/County Association of San Mateo County
CEC
California Energy Commission
CEQA
California Environmental Quality Act 
CO2
carbon dioxide 
EIR
environmental impact report 
EMFAC
CARB Emission Factor
GHG
greenhouse gas 
I-
Interstate
kW
kilowatt
kWh
kilowatt-hour
LCFS
Low Carbon Fuel Standard 
MPO
metropolitan planning organization 
MTC
Metropolitan Transportation Commission
MTCO2e
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
OPR
Office of Planning and Research
288 of 599

--- page 289 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
vi
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Acronym/Abbreviation
Term
PCE
Peninsula Clean Energy
PG&E
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
RICAPS
Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite
RPS
Renewables Portfolio Standard 
SB
Senate Bill 
SCS
sustainable communities strategy 
SR-
State Route
TDM
Transportation Demand Management 
TMA
transportation management agency 
TNC
Transportation network company
TOD
transit-oriented development 
USEPA
US Environmental Protection Agency
VMT
vehicle miles traveled 
289 of 599

--- page 290 ---
Executive Summary
PURPOSE OF THE CLIMATE ACTION PLAN
Thise 2020 Climate Action Plan (CAP) is San Mateo’s comprehensive strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. It demonstrates the leadership of community members and the City on sustainability and GHG 
reduction. San Mateo’s General Plan directs the preparation, ongoing implementation and update of the CAP, 
providing the framework for San Mateo to reduce its community-wide GHG emissions in a manner consistent 
with state reduction targets and goals for  2030 2020, 2030, and 2045050. The CAP is prepared consistent with 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines for Plans for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (California Code of Regulations Section 15183.5). This allows the 2020 CAP to support and possibly 
streamline environmental review of GHG emissions related to future development projects within the city.
Thise 2020 CAP is a direct update to the 2015 CAP. The 2020 CAP analyzes San Mateo’s progress to date in 
meeting its GHG reduction targets and contains new information to achieve more significant and longer-term 
GHG reductions. It also presents a work plan and monitoring program for the City to track progress over time 
and maintain the status of the CAP as a qualified GHG reduction strategy for the purposes of CEQA streamlining. 
Since the City’s adoption of the CAP in 2020, the State of California has accelerated its actions and commitments 
to reduce statewide GHG emissions. In addition to State targets, the CAP and General Plan must follow regional 
air district guidance and thresholds to serve as the City's qualified GHG reduction strategy. In 2022, the Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) approved new thresholds of significance to determine whether a 
proposed project, including general plans and CAPs, will have a significant impact on climate change. In response 
to these changes, the City completed this technical update to the 2020 CAP so that it is consistent with the Strive 
San Mateo General Plan 2040 and continues to serve as the City’s qualified GHG reduction strategy, as it has 
since 2015.
290 of 599

--- page 291 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
2
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Local Leadership
San Mateo has an extensive history of action on GHG reduction and other environmental sustainability actions. 
Thise 2020 CAP allows community members, City staff and officials, and other stakeholders to understand San 
Mateo’s existing planning efforts and strategies to achieve its GHG reduction goals. It builds on several earlier 
efforts, including the 2007 Sustainable Initiatives Plan, the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program, the 
Climate Action Plan for Operations and Facilities, the 2015 CAP, and many other local accomplishments to date.
Planning Process
The City prepared the 2020 CAP as a collaborative effort between City staff, City officials, members of the public, 
and agency partners. San Mateo’s existing GHG accomplishments is a core foundation of the 2020 CAP. From 
2005 to 20192017, San Mateo achieved an 2218 percent decrease in GHG emissions. Programs such as Peninsula 
Clean Energy, composting and other waste reduction efforts, increased adoption of electric and more fuel-
efficient vehicles, and improved energy efficiency and water conservation have all helped to achieve this 
reduction and will continue to drive reductions in emissionsreduce GHG emissions far into the future. By 2045, 
these local efforts are expected to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emission levels over 25 percent% from a business-
as-usual scenariobelow where they would be without these actions. By 203020, these local efforts are expected 
to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions 165 percent below projected levels, not including steps San Mateo has 
taken since 20197 to reduce its local emissions. 
Starting with these existing efforts, City staff and community members identified opportunities for new and 
expanded GHG reduction programs in San Mateo, touching on all major sources of GHG emissions in the 
community and leveraging new opportunities for GHG reductions that were not available when the City was 
preparing the 2015 CAP. Through conversations with other City staff members, a public open house meeting, 
and discussions with the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, the project team revised this list to 
produce a final list of GHG reduction measures and the volume of reductions they enable. The 2020  CAP allows 
San Mateo to meet and, in some instances, exceed the state-recommended targets for local communities. This 
CAP also includes an implementation and monitoring work plan for City staff to put these measures into effect 
and to track their effectiveness. 
Figure ES-1 shows the timeline for the 2020 CAP.
291 of 599

--- page 292 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
3
Figure ES-1: 2020 CAP Timeline
KEY OUTCOMES OF THE CAP
The CAP includes two major sets of technical analyses. The first is an inventory of San Mateo’s recent GHG 
emissions and a forecast of how these emissions may change in the future. The second is a set of calculations 
(known as quantification) showing how the CAP measures, as well as existing and planned efforts, can reduce 
GHG emissions consistent with the City’s targets. 
Community GHG Inventories
GHG inventories are assessments of San Mateo’s GHG emissions from a variety of sources over the course of a 
calendar year. San Mateo has several previous GHG inventories, including ones for the calendar years 2005, 2010, 
and 2015, and 2017. As part of the 2023is technical update to the CAP, the project team prepared a fourth fifth 
inventory, for the calendar year 20192017. The project team chose to prepare a 2019 GHG inventory as opposed 
to a 2020 GHG inventory so that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and shelter-in-place orders would not 
skew the data. The project team made limited updatesd to the previous year inventories to uses the same 
methods and data sources as the 20192017 inventory, informed by State guidance and best practices. This 
ensures that all four five inventories are consistent and provide an accurate assessment of how San Mateo’s GHG 
emissions have changed over time.
•CAP 2023 
Technical 
update
2023/ 
2024
•Adopt 
2020 CAP
Spring 
2020
•Conduct 
public 
hearings 
and 
review
Winter 
2019
•Draft 2020 
CAP
Autumn 
2019
•Finalize 
GHG 
reduction 
measures
•Quantify 
GHG 
reduction 
measures
Summer 
2019
•Begin 
developin
g GHG 
reduction 
measures
Spring 
2019
•Complete 
inventory 
and 
forecast
•Collect 
data on 
existing 
and 
planned 
actions
Winter 
2019
•Project 
kick-off
•Begin 
inventory 
work
Autumn 
2018
292 of 599

--- page 293 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
4
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
San Mateo’s GHG emissions are caused by activities that take place within the city limits, even if the emissions 
are physically emitted elsewhere. For example, GHG emissions caused by the decomposition of trash thrown 
away in San Mateo are counted in these inventories, even though the decomposition (and resulting emission of 
GHGs) occurs in a landfill that is not located in San Mateo. All measurements of GHG emissions are in the common 
unit of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e), which allows for the different strengths of various 
GHGs to be expressed in a single unit.
Figure ES-2 shows the nine ten10 sources (sectors) of GHG emissions included in the inventories in this CAP.
Figure ES-2: GHG Inventory Sectors
* Informational item, not included in the total of San Mateo’s emissions.
In 2005, San Mateo’s GHG emissions totaled 666,410 660,600 MTCO2e. These emissions fell to 651,450 646,920 
MTCO2e in 2010, 592,010 590,850 MTCO2e in 2015, and 533,730 541,960 MTCO2e in 2017, and 520,410 MTCO2e 
in 2019, a decline of 2 percent, 11 percent, 20 percent, and 2218 percent relative to 2005 levels respectively. In 
all years, the on-road transportation sector is the largest source of emissions, followed by emissions from the 
two built environment sectors, off-road equipment, solid waste generation, and point sources. Landfill, rail, and 
On-road 
transportation
Commercial and 
industrial built 
environment
Residential built 
environment
Off-road 
equipment
Solid waste 
generation
Point sources *
Landfill
Rail
Water and 
wastewater
Land use and 
sequestration
Commented [AC1]:  Can you add one more sentence about 
the 2019 inventory
Commented [LW2R2]:  Added.
293 of 599

--- page 294 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
5
water and wastewater emissions were consistently the smallest sources. This CAP uses 2019 as the current year 
GHG inventory to present normal conditions, as the protocols suggest. Use of data from 2020 would represent 
an anomalous year as several sectors were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related changes to day-to-
day activities resulting from precautions and restrictions.   Figure ES-3 shows emissions by sector for 201905.
Figure ES-3: 2019Baseline (2005) GHG Emissions
On-road transportation: 
51%
Residential built 
environment:
21%
Commercial/ industrial 
built environment:
Solid waste 
generation:
4%
Point sources: 
3%*
Off-road 
equipment:
3%
Rail: 
1%
Landfill:
1%
Water and 
wastewater:
<1%
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
MTCO2e
Commented [AC3]:  Can we highlight the 2019 GHG 
emissions in this graphic instead? This is something that I 
actually wish we did in the 2020 CAP
Can you ensure the colors line up with the previous graphic, a 
few seem consistent 
Commented [LW4R4]:  Added 2019. 
294 of 599

--- page 295 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
6
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
* Point sources are included as an informational item and are not counted towards the total GHG emissions for the City.
The 2020 CAP not only looks at the total emissions from San Mateo’s sectors, but also the average emissions per 
San Mateo resident, known as per-capita emissions. The CAP calculates per-capita emissions by dividing the total 
emissions level by the number of residents in the community. In 2005, San Mateo’s per-capita emissions were 
7.1 MTCO2e per-capita. These numbers fell to 6.7 MTCO2e per-capita in 2010, 5.8 MTCO2e per-capita in 2015, 
and 5.2 MTCO2e per-capita in 2017, a decline of 26 percent.
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
MTCO2e
On-road 
and industrial 
built 
environment: 
21%
Residential 
built 
environment: 
21%
Off-road 
equipment
: 
8%
Solid 
waste 
generat
ion: 
3%
Point 
sourc
es: 
1% *
Land
fill: 
1%
Rail
: 
1%
Water and 
wastewat
er: 
<1%
295 of 599

--- page 296 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
7
Forecast
The forecast is a projection of future GHG emissions, showing how these emissions would change over time if 
no action is taken at the federal, State, or local level to reduce them. In the forecast, changes in emissions are 
caused by changes in population. As San Mateo is expected to continue to grow through 20502045, the forecast 
projects an increase in emissions. The 2020 CAP projects emissions to grow to 605,240559,420 MTCO2e by 
20302020, 696,810618,670 MTCO2e by 20402030, and 750,4400667,470 MTCO2e by 2050 2045 if no action is 
taken, a total increase of 4423 percent from 20192017 levels. Per-capita emissions are expected to fall to 4.6 
MTCO2e per-capita by 2050, an 11 percent decline from 2017 levels.
Targets
The 2020 CAP sets substantial GHG reduction goals for San Mateo, consistent with the City’s role as a 
sustainability leader. The CAP relies on the recommended GHG reduction goals in the State’s Climate Change 
Scoping Plan to set targets for GHG reductions and support a path to achieving carbon neutrality by 2045, 
adapted to ensure that they are appropriate for San Mateo and meet the CEQA requirements for community-
wide plans as well as individual development projects. These targets are:
•
203020: Reduce emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels (4915 percent% below baseline 2005 levels), 
equal to 339,880 76561,510 MTCO2e. or 5.1 MTCO2e per-capita.
•
2030: Reduce emissions to 4.3 MTCO2e per-capita, equal to 529,760 MTCO2e.
•
204550: Reduce emissions to 85 percent below 1990 levels (87 percent below baseline 2005 levels), to 1.2 
MTCO2e per-capita, equal to 84,96970172,310 MTCO2e.
Existing and Planned Accomplishments
The forecast represents a “worst case” scenario if no action is taken to reduce GHG emissions. However, San 
Mateo, along with regional and State agencies, have already taken actions to reduce GHG emissions below their 
201917 limit and to close the gap to the City’s GHG reduction targets. The 2020 CAP identifies the GHG reductions 
from these existing and planned accomplishments. Table ES-1 shows the reductions from these 
accomplishments and San Mateo’s projected future emissions affect taking these accomplishments into account.
296 of 599

--- page 297 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
8
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Table ES-1: Reductions from Existing and Planned Accomplishments
2030
2040
2045
Forecasted Emissions
605,420559,420 
MTCO2e(5.1 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
696,810 618,670 
MTCO2e(5.0 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
750,400 667,470 
MTCO2e(4.6 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
Reductions from State existing and planned 
accomplishments
-72,90024,080 
MTCO2e(-0.2 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
-147,970107,780 
MTCO2e(-0.9 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
-196,1404,570 
MTCO2e (-1.4 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
Reductions from local and regional existing 
and planned accomplishments 
-23,98023,700 
MTCO2e(-0.2 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
-18,36032,470 
MTCO2e(-0.3 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
-4,9504,120 
MTCO2e(Less than 
-0.1 MTCO2e per-
capita)
Emissions with existing and planned 
accomplishments
508,380511,640 
MTCO2e(4.7 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
530,510478,350 
MTCO2e
(3.9 MTCO2e per-
capita)
549,320468,720 
MTCO2e(3.3 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
Reduction Measures
Thise 2020 CAP builds on the GHG reduction measures in the 2015 CAP, as well as the existing and planned 
accomplishments, to provide an updated suite of GHG reduction measures that meet the City’s targets. These 
measures are informed by several sources, including discussions with City staff, feedback from public 
engagement efforts, and direction from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. Thise 2020 CAP 
contains 29 GHG reduction measures, all of which also provide additional community benefits such as financial 
savings and improvements to public health. Table ES-2 shows these measures and the GHG reductions they 
allow.
Commented [LW5]:  Is this good option for leaving per-
capita?
Commented [EK6R6]:  I think we should remove per-capita 
from this table.
Commented [LW7R6]:  Updated.
Commented [TS8R6]:  Agree.
297 of 599

--- page 298 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
9
Table ES-2: Reductions by Measure
Measure
2030
2040
2045
BE 1: All-electric new construction
-21,070-880
-38,450-4,640
-47,250-7,420
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
-102,210-620
-184,610-
13,950
-221,260-
85,960
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
-160-380
-170-1,060
00
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
residences
-70-60
-160-170
00
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
nonresidential buildings
-60-10
-90-70
00
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
-6,160-410
-7,020-6,030
-6,790-17,860
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-3,800-840
-8,860-9,930
-13,380-
17,040
EE 3: Residential tree planting
-<10Less than 
-10
-<10Less than 
-10
-<100
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
-10-<10
-30-20
-40-70
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings 
-1300
-200-110
-270-210
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-24,420-2,650
-49,390-
29,630
-69,780-
71,150
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
-4,910-980
-8,030-17,050
-12,360-
17,120
CF 3: Clean city fleet
-130-30
-200-170
-270-420
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
-4,210-20
-16,920-3,130
-26,360-7,000
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
-80-40
-170-240
-180-670
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
-110-390
-120-760
-130-1,110
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
298 of 599

--- page 299 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
10
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Measure
2030
2040
2045
ST 4: Public transit service
-3,610-830
-5,660-9,130
-6,910-25,110
ST 5: Commuter programs
Less than -
100
-70-130
-160-3,420
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
-2,010-60
-7,950-2,330
-13,410-8,460
ST 7: Transit-oriented development
-10,200-160
-18,920-990
-23,700-2,370
SW 1: Composting program
-1,030-950
-1,710-12,650
-1,850-14,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
-6,070-810
-7,730-5,360
-8,820-8,530
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
-2,080-420
-4,050-1,910
-5,590-5,510
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
-170-20
-300-100
-360-230
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
Less than -10-
<10
-10-<10
00
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
Less than -
100
-10-<10
-20-10
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment
-3,6600
-7,130-200
-9,890-1,140
Total
-196,360-
10,560
-367,960-
119,760
-468,780-
295,660
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
When the 2020 CAP is fully implemented, it is projected to reduce GHG emissions to meet or exceed San Mateo’s 
reduction targets:
•
Projected 20302020 emissions with the CAP are 311,990501,110 MTCO2e, well below the reduction target 
of 339,87680 561,510 MTCO2e.
•
Projected 2030 emissions with the CAP are 2.9 MTCO2e per-capita (358,610 MTCO2e), well below the 
reduction target of 4.3 MTCO2e per-capita.
•
Projected 20452050 emissions with the CAP are 1.2 MTCO2e per-capita (80,550 173,080 MTCO2e), 
meeting below the City’s reduction target of 84,96970 MTCO2e.
299 of 599

--- page 300 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
11
Implementation
Successfully achieving these GHG reductions depends on effective implementation of the 2020 CAP. The CAP 
includes a work plan to help identify the lead City department(s), timeframe, and estimated staff time for each of 
the GHG reduction measures, which will help prioritize the measures and identify a work program. City staff will 
monitor implementation of the 2020 CAP, report annually on CAP implementation, and will revise the work 
program as needed to ensure the best use of City and community resources. This approach will help ensure that 
San Mateo stays on track to meet or exceed its GHG reduction targets and will make it easier to update the CAP 
in future yearsyears, as necessary.
New and emerging technologies, such as systems that track real-time energy use and suggest ways to improve energy efficiency, 
can help San Mateo continue to reduce its GHG emissions.
Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (22290) 
300 of 599

--- page 301 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
12
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
 
Addressing climate change will help provide numerous benefits to San Mateo community residents, including supporting the 
conservation of San Mateo’s outdoor resources.
Photo by City of San Mateo
301 of 599

--- page 302 ---
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
13
This page has no content.
302 of 599

--- page 303 ---
Chapter 1
Introduction
This Climate Action Plan (CAP) demonstrates the City of San Mateo’s leadership and 
commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
This CAP is a comprehensive strategy to reduce GHG emissions and streamline the 
environmental review of GHG emissions of future development projects in the City 
of San Mateo, consistent with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15183.5(b). The CAP identifies a strategy, reduction measures, 
and implementation actions the City will use to achieve targets consistent with State 
recommendations of 815 percent% below 19902005 emissions levels by 204520., 
4.3 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) per person by 2030, and 1.2 
MTCO2e per person by 2050. 
GHG Reduction 
Targets
This CAP implements a 
key goal of the City’s 
20402030 General Plan 
by achieving the City’s 
adopted GHG 
reduction targets for 
20302020 and 
20452030, which align 
with. It also achieves 
the State-
recommended GHG 
reduction goals. for 
2050.
303 of 599

--- page 304 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
15
PURPOSE
The City of San Mateo first adopted a CAP in 2015, based on a long-standing 
commitment to environmental stewardship and sustainability. This CAP consolidated 
and updated multiple earlier plans, consistent with the City’s 2030 General Plan, 
including the Sustainable Initiatives Plan (adopted in 2007), Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Reduction Program (adopted in 2010), and the Climate Action Plan for 
Operations and Facilities (adopted in 2008). Regionally, the 2015 CAP drew on the 
City’s involvement with countywide climate action planning efforts. The 2015 CAP 
integrated early and ongoing efforts into a single plan that supported the General 
Plan and followed CEQA and air quality guidelines set by the State and BAAQMD. 
The 2015 CAP recommended that the documented be updated at least once every 
five years to address emerging issues and changing best practices related to GHG 
emissions, including new regulations, the availability of new technologies, and 
changes to development patterns. The City completed began an update to the CAP 
in 2018 2020 and again in 2023. This CAP preserves the structure and format of the 
2015 document while providing updated information, an expanded set of GHG 
reduction measures, and a longer-term planning horizon, and alignment with the 
goals of the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040. As a result, thise 2020 CAP provides 
a revised framework for addressing GHG emissions in the community, including an updated consolidated 
framework for the review and analysis of GHG emissions from new development activities. 
The CAP allows City decision-makers and the community to understand the sources and magnitude of local GHG 
emissions, establish goals to reduce GHG emissions, and prioritize steps to achieve emissions reduction targets. 
The CAP updates and expands the City’s goals, measures, and actions to addresses GHG emissions from the 
energy, water, transportation, solid waste, and off-road equipment sectors. It also revises San Mateo’s 
implementation program and framework to monitor and report progress. Although the CAP was recently 
updated and adopted, the City’s update to the General Plan, Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040, and new State 
laws necessitate a technical update to the CAP so that the CAP will maintain consistency with the Strive San 
Mateo General Plan 2040 when adopted and can continue to serve as a qualified GHG reduction strategy.
Since the City’s adoption of the CAP in 2020, the State of California has accelerated its actions and commitments 
to reduce statewide GHG emissions with the passage of Assembly Bill (AB) 1279 codifying the State’s commitment 
to be carbon neutral by 2045. As part of this commitment to carbon neutrality, AB 1279 directs a minimum 
statewide reduction of GHGs to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels by 2045. In addition to State targets, the 
CAP and General Plan must follow regional air district guidance and thresholds to serve as the City's qualified 
GHG reduction strategy. In April 2022, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) approved new 
thresholds of significance to determine whether a proposed project, including general plans and CAPs, will have 
Warming of the climate 
system is unequivocal, 
and since the 1950s, 
many of the observed 
changes are 
unprecedented over 
decades to millennia. 
The atmosphere and 
ocean have warmed, 
the amounts of snow 
and ice have 
diminished, sea level 
has risen, and the 
concentrations of 
greenhouse gases have 
increased. 
 – IPCC Fifth 
Assessment Report
304 of 599

--- page 305 ---
CHAPTER 1
16
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
a significant impact on climate change.  BAAQMD strongly recommends that cities and counties adopt a CAP 
that has been prepared consistent with CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) to demonstrate their ability to meet 
the State’s GHG reduction goals for 2030 and 2045. In response to these changes, the City completed a technical 
update to the 2020 CAP in 2023 so that it is consistent with Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 and continues 
to serve as the City’s qualified GHG reduction strategy, as it has since 2015. The approach for this technical update 
is consistent with the BAAQMD guidance available.
The CAP allows City decision makers and the community to understand the sources and magnitude of local GHG 
emissions, establish goals to reduce GHG emissions, and prioritize steps to achieve emissions reduction targets. 
The CAP updates and expands the City’s goals, measures, and actions to reduce community-wide GHG emissions. 
It also revises San Mateo’s implementation program and framework to monitor and report progress.
CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE
To make meaningful and effective decisions regarding GHG emissions reductions, it is important to understand 
the scientific and regulatory framework under which this Plan has been developed. This section provides a brief 
introduction to the scientific research efforts to understand how climate change occurs and its global 
implications, and describes the federal, State, regional, and local regulations that provide guidance and inform 
the development of this Plan. 
Since the early 1990s, scientific consensus holds that the world’s population is releasing GHGs faster than the 
earth’s natural systems can absorb them. These gases are released as byproducts of fossil fuel combustion, waste 
disposal, industrial processes, land-use changes, and other human activities. While often used interchangeably, 
there is a difference between the terms “climate change” and “global warming.” According to the National 
Academy of Sciences, climate change refers to any significant, measurable change of climate lasting for an 
extended period that can be caused by both natural factors and human activities. Global warming, on the other 
hand, is an average increase in the temperature of the atmosphere caused by increased GHG emissions. The use 
of the term “climate change” is more accurate because it encompasses all changes to climate, not just 
temperature. 
Greenhouse Effect
The release of gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O), creates a blanket 
around the earth that allows light to pass through but traps heat at the surface preventing its escape into space 
(Figure 1). These gases function similarly to the glass panes of a greenhouse, which allow sunlight to pass into 
the building but trap heat inside, hence the name for this process: the greenhouse effect. While the greenhouse 
effect is a naturally occurring process that is vital for the existence of life, human activities have accelerated the 
generation of GHGs beyond natural levels. The overabundance of the gases that cause this effect, known as 
305 of 599

--- page 306 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
17
greenhouse gases, in the atmosphere has led to an unexpected warming of the earth 
and has the potential to severely impact the earth’s climate system. 
Climate Change Impacts
The continued release of GHGs at or above the current rate will continue to increase 
average temperatures around the globe. These increases in global temperatures are 
likely to change our planet’s climate in ways that will have significant global, regional, 
and local long-term effects.
Figure 1:The Greenhouse Effect
Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Climatic Data Center. 2008. NOAA Satellite and 
Information Service. 
Global Climate Change Impacts
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report summarizes the most recent 
scientific understanding of global climate change and projects future conditions using the most comprehensive 
set of recognized global climate models. The report, released in 2013, considers all impacts human activities have 
on global temperature, and states that there is at least a 95 percent% probability that “human influence has been 
the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century.” The Fifth Assessment Report projects 
four different temperature scenarios, all of which project 2016–2035 temperatures 0.54 to 1.26°F warmer than 
the 1986–2005 average temperature, and potentially over 7.2°F by 2100 under the most aggressive scenario.
It is extremely likely [at 
least a 95% probability] 
that human influence 
has been the dominant 
cause of the observed 
warming since the mid- 
20th century.
– IPCC Fifth Assessment 
Report
306 of 599

--- page 307 ---
CHAPTER 1
18
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
As asserted in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report and other scientific studies, if trends remain unchanged, 
continued GHG emissions above current rates will induce further warming changes in the global climate system 
and pose even greater risks than those currently witnessed. Figure 2 shows the effects of additional warming on 
global temperatures. Given the scientific basis of climate change and expected trends, the challenge remains to 
prepare for and mitigate climate change through deliberate global and local action.
Emission Scenarios
The future severity of climate change depends on future GHG emission trends worldwide. If GHG emissions 
drop quickly and significantly, scientists project that there will be fewer substantial changes in future climate 
conditions. If emissions continue to increase, or only decline slowly and in the more distant future, severe 
climate change is more likely. These emission trends depend on political actions, economic conditions, 
individual behavior, and many other factors.
The global scientific community commonly uses four scenarios, called Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCPs). In California, the best available data is for two of these scenarios: RCP 4.5 (a medium-low 
emissions scenario) and RCP 8.5 (a high emissions scenario). For the sake of a conservative analysis that 
identifies the greatest potential range of climate change effects, this section presents results of the RCP 8.5 
scenario. 
307 of 599

--- page 308 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
19
Figure 2: Potential Global Temperature Increases
Historic and potential future global temperatures, depending on different levels of future GHG emissions. The red line shows the 
expected temperature trend without significant worldwide action to reduce GHG emissions
Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2019
Climate Change Impacts to California and the City of San Mateo
The City of San Mateo, like most communities in California, is expected to experience multiple direct impacts as 
a result of climate change, including potential flooding, sea level rise, wildfires, drought, extreme heat, and 
negative effects on public health and biodiversity. Research suggests that California will experience hotter and 
drier conditions, reductions in winter snow and increases in winter rains, sea level rise, significant changes to the 
water cycle, and an increased occurrence of extreme weather events. Such compounded impacts will affect 
transportation networks, water supplies, and economic systems throughout the sState, with likely ramifications 
in the City of San Mateo. To refrain from action is costly and risky; the California Fourth Climate Change 
308 of 599

--- page 309 ---
CHAPTER 1
20
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Assessment estimates that no action to address the potential impacts of climate change will lead to economic 
losses of “tens of billions of dollars per year in direct costs” and “expose trillions of dollars of assets to collateral 
risk.” Table 1 summarizes potential impacts in California due to climate change.
Table 1:  California Climate Change Impacts
Climate Impact
Historical Trends
Future Direction 
of Change
Confidence for 
Future Change
Temperature
Warming
Warming
Very High
Sea Level Rise
Rising
Rising
Very High
Snowpack
Declining
Declining
Very High
Annual Precipitation
No Significant Trends
Unknown
Low
Intensity of Heavy Precipitation Events
No Significant Trends
Increasing
Medium-High
Frequency of Droughts
No Significant Trends
Increasing
Medium-High
Frequency and Intensity of Santa Ana 
Winds
No Significant Trends
Unknown
Low
Marine Layer Clouds
Some Downward 
Trends
Unknown
Low
Acres Burned by Wildfire
Increasing
Increasing
Medium-High
Source: Bedsworth, Louise, Dan Cayan, Guido Franco, Leah Fisher, Sonya Ziaja. (California Governor’s Office of Planning and 
Research, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, California Energy Commission, California Public Utilities Commission). 2018. 
Statewide Summary Report. California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment. Publication number: SUMCCCA4-2018-013.
Decreased Supply of Fresh Water
The State’s water supply is already under stress and is anticipated to shrink under even the most conservative 
climate change scenario. Warmer average global temperatures cause more precipitation to fall as rain instead 
offall than snowfall, making the winter snowfall season shorter and accelerating the rate at which the snowpack 
melts in the spring. The Sierra snowpack is estimated to decline by at more than two-thirds below its historical 
average by 2050. Figure 3 shows anticipated changes in snowpack levels above the Hetch Hetchy reservoir 
watershed, the source of most of the water used in San Mateo, under a high GHG emissions scenario. With rain 
and snow events becoming less predictable and more variable, the rate of flooding could increase beyond what 
is currently considered flood-prone, and California’s ability to store and transport fresh water for consumption 
could decrease. Further, warmer weather will lead to longer growing seasons and increased agricultural demand 
309 of 599

--- page 310 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
21
for water throughout the state, as well as an increase in the prevalence of ticks, mosquitos, and other vectors for 
harmful diseases. 
Figure 3: Historic and Projected Snowpack Levels Impacting San Mateo’s Water Supply 
Source: Cal-Adapt 2019.
Increased Severity and Frequency of Flood Events
Forecasts indicate more intense rainfall events, generating more frequent or extensive runoff, and flooding that 
may result from a changing climate. According to Cal-Adapt, historically, these intense rainfall events historically 
occurred an average of 11 events times per year and are projected to increase to an average of 13 events times 
per year by 2050 and an average of 16 events times by 2100. Localized flood events may increase in periods of 
heavy rain. As explained by the California Fourth Climate Change Assessment, California’s water system is 
structured and operated to balance between water storage for dry months and flood protection during rainy 
seasons. Although climate change is likely to lead to a drier climate overall, risks from regular, more intense 
rainfall events can generate more frequent and/or more severe flooding that upsets this managed balance 
between storage and protection.  Areas along creeks, including Laurel Creek and San Mateo Creek, and east of 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
1950
1957
1964
1971
1978
1985
1992
1999
2006
2013
2020
2027
2034
2041
2048
2055
2062
2069
2076
2083
2090
2097
Snow Water Equivalence (Inches)
Snow Water Equivalence (Inches)
Year
310 of 599

--- page 311 ---
CHAPTER 1
22
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
El Camino Real are at a higher risk of flooding. Climate change may increase the frequency and severity of storms 
and expand the parts of the city that are considered prone to flooding. Additionally, erosion may increase, and 
water quality may decrease as a result ofbecause of increased rainfall amounts.
Rising Sea Levels
Sea level rise is attributed to the increase of average ocean 
temperatures and the resulting thermal expansion and the 
melting of snow and ice contributing to the volume of 
water held in the oceans. While many effects of climate 
change will impact the region, sea level rise is one specific 
impact that has been extensively studied and quantified, 
and its effects mapped. The speed and amount of sea level 
rise will be influenced by the increase in average 
temperatures and rate of melting of glacial ice. While there 
is a degree of uncertainty in projections, the actual rate of 
sea level rise is occurring more quickly than many previous 
projections had estimated.
The California Natural Resources Agency, in partnership 
with the California Ocean Protection Council, issued a 2018 
update to the State of California Sea-Level Rise Guidance, 
which states that sea levels in the San Francisco Bay Area 
may rise 22 between 1.1 and 2.7 feetinches by mid-century and between 3.4 andto 10.2 feet82 inches by the end 
of the century. Because it is in a low-lying coastal area, San Mateo is highly vulnerable to this threat. A sea level 
rise of 22 inches 2 feet could inundate areas near Seal Point. If the level of San Francisco Bay rises 82 inches7 
feet, water is projected to inundate all parts of San Mateo east of Highway 101, the area north of downtown, and 
large sections of the Hayward Park, Bay Meadows, and Laurie Meadows neighborhoods. Rising sea levels also 
threaten a significant portion of San Mateo’s housing, commercial buildings, essential infrastructure, and 
economic drivers, as low-lying land near the shoreline could be subject to more frequent flooding. Affected 
essential infrastructure includes US Highway 101, State Route (SR-) 92, and the Caltrain station and associated 
railroad infrastructure. Meanwhile, rising tides may increase groundwater levels, inundating contaminated soils. 
Given that some contaminated sites in San Mateo sit near the shoreline, rising groundwater may cause 
contaminated soils to leach into new, different areas. Figure 4 shows the parts of San Mateo that are expected 
to be inundated by sea level rise by 2100. 
Shoreline areas of San Mateo, such as Ryder Park, may be 
vulnerable to sea level rise.
Photo by City of San Mateo
311 of 599

--- page 312 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
23
Figure 4: Sea Level Rise in San Mateo (2100)
Source: Adapting to Rising Tides 2019, City of San Mateo 2019, San Mateo County 2019, ESRI 2019, PlaceWorks 2019
312 of 599

--- page 313 ---
CHAPTER 1
24
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Deteriorating Public Health
Heat waves are expected to have a major impact on public health, as well as decreasing air quality and increasing 
mosquito breeding and mosquito-borne diseases. Further, climate change is expected to alter the spread and 
prevalence of disease-carrying insects, organisms, or people, referred to as vectors, in addition to leading to a 
possible decrease in food quality and security. Vector control districts throughout the State are already evaluating 
how they will address the expected changes to California’s climate. 
According to a report from the California Air Resources Board (CARB), the warming climate will increase ozone 
levels in California’s major air basins, leading to upwards of 6 to 30 more days per year with ozone concentrations 
that exceed federal clean-air standards. The number of extreme heat days per year (when the daily average 
temperature exceeds 90 degrees) is also projected to double from mid-century to the end of the century. 
Cost-effective measures to reduce GHG emissions and protect public health are important for local governments. 
The new CARB study provides evidence of what is becoming known as the “climate penalty,” where rising 
temperatures increase ground-level ozone and airborne health-damaging particles, despite the reductions 
achieved by programs targeting smog-forming emissions from cars, trucks, and industrial sources. The elderly, 
young, and sensitive populations most likely to be impacted by climate change are also those that often lack 
sufficient resources to adapt. Such vulnerable demographics are likely to need assistance to respond to climate 
change. Social equity issues related to the unequal distribution of resources and increased costs to address 
community-wide health risks will need to be addressed proactively to reduce the potential for financial strain on 
local governments. 
Increased Rate of Wildfires
Wildfire risk is based on a combination of factors including rainfall, winds, temperature, and vegetation. 
According to California Fourth Climate Change Assessment, higher temperatures, longer dry periods, and 
increased frequency of high velocity winds over a longer fire season will directly increase wildfire risk. Indirectly, 
wildfire risk will also be influenced by potential climate-related changes in vegetation and ignition potential from 
lightning. Historically, the annual average area burned in San Mateo was 50 acres. According to Cal-Adapt, under 
a higher emissions scenario, this could increase to an average annual burn area of 12073 acres by 2050 and 1323 
acres by 2100.  . The hills behind San Mateo, east of Interstate (I-) 280, are also expected to see an increase in 
wildfire frequency, and fires in this area could cause damage in the community or impact local air quality. 
Negative Impacts on Wildlife
As temperatures rise, species are migrating north in California or to higher elevations. This ecological shift 
disrupts the food chain and prevents some plant species from being pollinated. Water and food supplies are 
expected to be more variable and to shift as the seasons change. The California Office of Emergency Services 
and the California Natural Resources Agency note that those species that are unable to migrate face the danger 
313 of 599

--- page 314 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
25
of extinction: “The amount of future warming expected in California may likely exceed the tolerance of endemic 
species (i.e., those that are native to a specific location and that only occur there) given their limited distribution 
and microclimate.”
Reduction in soil moisture will result in early dieback of many plants, potentially leading to conflicts with animal 
breeding seasons and other natural processes. Many of the potential effects on wildlife are still being studied, 
but with a limited ability to adapt to new climates and the expected success of invasive species, pests, and 
pathogens in future climate conditions, there is a potential for severe species loss.
Several potential hydrological changes associated with global climate change could also specifically influence 
the ecology of aquatic life in California and have several negative effects on cold-water fish. For example, if a rise 
in air temperature by just a few degrees Fahrenheit occurs, this change could be enough to raise the water 
temperatures above the tolerance of salmon and trout in many streams, favoring instead non-native fishes such 
as sunfish and carp. Unsuitable summer temperatures would be particularly problematic for many of the 
threatened and endangered fish that spend summers in cold-water streams, either as adults or juveniles or both. 
Additionally, oak woodlands, a habitat found in San Mateo, is vulnerable to climate stressors that alter water 
availability or soil temperature. 
LOCAL CONTEXT
The CAP has beenis an implementation program of the City’s 2030 General Plan. The City of San Mateo adopted 
the 2030 General Plan in 2010. As part of the General Plan update, the City prepared and adopted the 2010 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program (Program). The 2010 Program was the City’s first step to 
consolidate City efforts into a framework for reducing GHG emissions consistent with the California Global 
Warming Solutions Act. The 2010 Program was based on the City’s Sustainable Initiatives Plan adopted in the 
early stages of the 2030 General Plan update. The City revised its approach four years later by developing the 
2015 CAP, in response to evolving guidance and new protocols. This CAP supersedes the 2015 document. 
2030 and 2040 General Plan 
The 2030 San Mateo General Plan presents the City’s vision for establishing San Mateo as a diverse community 
with an exceptional quality and character. The General Plan envisions a preeminent City with balanced 
commercial and residential growth, with a distinguished downtown and viable, wholesome neighborhoods 
driven by a solid, healthy economic and financial base.
The City’s General Plan contains goals and policies which regulate urban development, the protection of the 
natural environment, and public safety. It reflects the community'’s long-term vision and provides a goal and 
policy framework to guide land use and planning-related decisions, and future funding decisions. The General 
Plan also enables citizens and those seeking to develop property to understand San Mateo’s values and 
314 of 599

--- page 315 ---
CHAPTER 1
26
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
objectives. The General Plan also establishes the City’s vision of serving as a leader in addressing the 
environmental effects of climate change with education, promotion, and fostering sustainable development.
The General Plan establishes a set of GHG reduction goals and directs the City to reduce emissions to achieve 
these goals by developing a comprehensive GHG reduction strategy. The Sustainable Initiatives Plan initially 
fulfilled this role, followed by the 2015 CAP. This 2020 CAP will serve as the new GHG reduction strategy for San 
Mateo.
The City and community members are currently updating San Mateo’s General Plan and will replace it with the 
community’s 2040 General Plan called Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040. This process began in 2018 and the 
Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 is set to be adopted in 20232024. Future updates to the CAP will reflect any 
new policies or visions in Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.
Sustainable Initiatives Plan 
Adopted in 2007, the Sustainable Initiatives Plan was prepared by the City’s Sustainability Advisory Committee 
to the City Council, which was an ad hoc committee created for the sole purpose of developing the plan and has 
since been disbanded. The Sustainable Initiatives Plan provided the City’s overall commitment and framework 
for reducing GHG emissions and achieving sustainability. This document established the City’s first GHG 
emissions target of reducing emissions below 1990 levels by 2020 and to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, 
consistent with State-adopted targets and goals at that time. Strategies in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan 
included a commitment to incorporate sustainability into policies and foster GHG reductions throughout the 
community. Community strategies suggested in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan addressed a broad array of issues, 
from increasing bicycle and pedestrian mode share to facilitating energy efficiency and renewable energy 
throughout the community. The City implemented the Sustainable Initiatives Plan and its companion GHG 
Reduction Program (presented below), monitored progress, and presented annual updates on this document to 
the City Council. 
2010 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program 
As part of the City’s General Plan update in 2010, the City prepared the 2010 Program. Adopted as an appendix 
to the General Plan and General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR), the Program supported the General 
Plan with an analysis of GHG emissions. Building on the 2007 Sustainable Initiatives Plan, the Program quantified 
strategies in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan for anticipated impacts on GHG reductions. An implementation plan 
in the Program also identified the City’s strategy to monitor GHG reductions and achieve the 2020 reduction 
target. Preparation of the Program included the development of a monitoring and reporting tool to track 
progress over time. 
315 of 599

--- page 316 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
27
The Program sought to streamline the review of new development by demonstrating consistency with BAAQMD 
guidance. The City fully analyzed and adopted the Program in the General Plan EIR to facilitate streamlining of 
new development review. Accordingly, the City used the Program to review and consider new development 
applications for GHG emissions.
Climate Action Plan for Operations & Facilities 
In 2008, San Mateo prepared a Climate Action Plan for Operations & Facilities, which includes a 2006 inventory 
of emissions from municipal operations and applies the targets identified in the Sustainable Initiatives Plan to 
the City. It covers emissions from energy use in City buildings, fuel use of City vehicles and equipment, commute 
habits of City employees, and waste thrown away at City facilities. This plan contains policies and specific capital 
improvements to help achieve these targets, along with recommendations for adapting to the impacts of climate 
change and how to educate City staff about reducing emissions. In 2010, the Climate Action Plan for Operations 
& Facilities was incorporated into San Mateo’s General Plan as an appendix.
2015 Climate Action Plan 
The City adopted a comprehensive CAP in 2015 that integrated San Mateo’s earlier sustainability efforts into a 
single document. It provided an analysis of San Mateo’s community-wide GHG emissions for the years 2005 and 
2010, forecasted these emissions out to 2030, and established a new GHG reduction target of 35 percent below 
2005 levels by 2030. This target, along with the targets of 15 percent below 2005 levels (equivalent of 1990 levels) 
by 2020 and 80 percent% below 1990 levels by 2050, were included in the General Plan as part of the 2015 CAP 
adoption process. The 2015 CAP listed 28 GHG reduction measures to reduce the community’s emissions, as well 
as a set of implementation and monitoring efforts to help put the plan into effect. Thise 2020 CAP is an update 
to the 2015 CAP.
Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite 
San Mateo has participated in the Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite (RICAPS) effort. The 
City/County Association of San Mateo County (C/CAG) has led this project as a countywide effort to support 
regional climate action planning. Originally funded by grants from BAAQMD and Pacific Gas and Electric 
Company (PG&E), RICAPS provides tools and a forum for ongoing countywide efforts. Tools developed through 
the RICAPS effort include a template of workbooks and documents available for local use. RICAPS also facilitated 
preparation of recent year inventories for jurisdictions in San Mateo County, including 2010, and 2015, 2017, and 
2019 community-wide GHG inventories for each participating jurisdiction. Jurisdictions in RICAPS continue to 
coordinate for a regional approach to monitoring GHG emissions and progress to local climate action planning 
targets.
316 of 599

--- page 317 ---
CHAPTER 1
28
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
While the City of San Mateo continues to participate in the RICAPS effort, the City has developed this CAP as an 
independent, customized CAP for the community shaped by the City’s unique background and locally adopted 
priorities. 
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 
California law first addressed climate change in 1988, when Assembly BilABl 4420 directed the State to prepare 
a GHG inventory and study the impacts of climate change. Since then, California has adopted several laws to 
assess climate change, analyze GHG emissions and their effects, reduce emissions, and prepare for the impacts 
of climate change. Many of these laws and associated regulations affect local governments, although only some 
create specific requirements for individual communities. 
Executive Order S-03-05 and Assembly Bill 32 – California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006
In 2005, former Governor Schwarzenegger issued Executive Order S-03-05, which established the first statewide 
GHG reduction goals for California: reduce emissions to 2000 levels by 2010, reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 
2020, and reduce emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. 
AB 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act, was approved by the legislature and signed by former 
Governor Schwarzenegger in 2006. The landmark legislation requires the California Air Resources Board (CARB) 
to 
develop 
regulatory 
and 
market 
mechanisms 
that 
will 
reduce 
GHG 
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, 
codifying the 2020 target in Executive 
Order S-03-05. AB 32 also directed CARB 
to identify early action items that could be 
quickly implemented, to develop a 
scoping plan to identify the most 
technologically feasible and cost-effective 
measures to achieve the 2020 target and 
create and adopt regulations requiring 
major emitters to report and verify their 
emissions. 
The Climate Change Scoping Plan (first 
adopted in 2009 and then updated in 
2014, and 2017, and 2022) employs a 
variety of GHG reduction measures that 
include direct regulations, alternative 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
2000
2004
2008
2012
2016
2020
Statewide emissions
1990 baseline emissions
Millions of MTCO2e
California’s 2020 reduction goal under AB 32 is 431 million 
MTCO2e. In 2020, the State emitted approximately 970 
million MTCO2e, reducing emissions below the State’s 2020 
317 of 599

--- page 318 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
29
compliance mechanisms, incentives, voluntary actions, and market-based approaches like a cap-and-trade 
program. The 2022 Scoping Pplan identifies local governments as strategic partners to achieving the State goal 
of reducing human-caused emissions to 85 percent below 1990 levels and achieving carbon neutrality by 2045. 
and translates the reduction goal to a 15 percent reduction of “existing” emissions by 2020. Although “existing 
emission levels” is not formally defined by the Scoping Plan, agencies throughout California have often 
interpreted it as referring to emissions occurring between 2005 and 2008. San Mateo’s GHG reduction strategies 
have used 2005 emissions as the “existing” level to inform the 2020 target. The 2017 update to the Scoping Plan 
recommends that local governments adopt per-capita targets for post-2020 GHG reduction efforts. It proposes 
a 2030 target of 6.0 MTCO2e per person, and a 2050 target of 2.0 MTCO2e per perso
Senate Bill 375 – Sustainable Communities and Climate Protection Act of 2008
Senate Bill (SB) 375 builds off AB 32 and aims to reduce GHG emissions by linking transportation funding to land 
use planning. It requires metropolitan planning organizations (MPO) to create a sustainable communities 
strategy (SCS) in their regional transportation plans for reducing urban sprawl. Each SCS will demonstrate 
strategies each region will use to achieve the GHG emissions reduction target set by CARB for 2020 and 2035. In 
2013, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) and the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) 
adopted Plan Bay Area, consisting of both the region’s first SCS and 2040 Regional Transportation Plan. The plan 
was updated in 2017 (Plan Bay Area 2040) and 2022 (Plan Bay Area 2050). In 2017, MTC and ABAG adopted an 
updated version of Plan Bay Area. A second update is in progress and is scheduled for adoption by 2021. 
Executive Order B-30-15 and Senate Bill 32
In 2015, former governor Jerry Brown signed Executive Order B-30-15, which directed state agencies to take 
several steps to reduce statewide GHG emissions and adapt to changing climate conditions. One section of this 
executive order set GHG reduction goal for the state of 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. In 2016, SB 32 was 
passed, codifying this GHG reduction goal into law as an official state target.
Executive Order B-55-18
In 2018, former governor Jerry Brown issued Executive Order B-55-18, which established an additional statewide 
goal of achieving carbon neutrality (no net GHG emissions) by 2045. Under this goal, any GHGs that are emitted 
by California must be fully offset by other activities by 2045. While this goal does not yet have the force of law, 
it does indicate the direction that the state is moving in and may be a reference point for future legislative action.
Assembly Bill 1279 – California Climate Crisis Act
In 2022, the California legislature passed AB 1279, the California Climate Crisis Act, which updated the State’s 
targets for mitigating GHGs. California must achieve net carbon neutrality for GHG emissions by 2045 and reduce 
318 of 599

--- page 319 ---
CHAPTER 1
30
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
emissions to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels. The 2022 update to the Scoping Plan identifies a path to 
achieving the AB 1279 target. 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District CEQA Air Quality Guidelines
Developing a CAP can also provide streamlined environmental review for new projects subject to CEQA. SB 97 
directed the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research (OPR) to amend the State CEQA Guidelines to address 
GHG emissions. OPR adopted the CEQA Guidelines in December 2009, and they went into effect on March 18, 
2010. The updated guidelines include provisions for local governments to use adopted plans for the reduction 
of GHG emissions to address the cumulative impacts of individual future projects on GHG emissions (see State 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) (1)). 
In response to the updated CEQA Guidelines, BAAQMD amended publishes the BAAQMD Air Quality CEQA 
Guidelines (most recently updated in 2017), which allowing a lead agency to prepare a Qualified GHG Reduction 
Strategy that reduces emissions to a level that is not cumulatively considerable. If the local agency then 
determines that a project is determined to be consistent with an adopted Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy, the 
project is assumed to not have a significant GHG emissions impact under CEQA. Air districts such as BAAQMD 
do not officially certify Qualified GHG Reduction Strategies, but they play a critical role in providing support to 
local communities. BAAQMD is the air district with jurisdiction over San Mateo.
In 2022, BAAQMD adopted the Air District’s CEQA Guidelines, including CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the 
Significance of Climate Impacts from Land Use Projects and Plans. Appendix B of the Guidelines, CEQA Thresholds 
for Evaluating the Significance of Climate Impacts, presents BAAQMD’s thresholds of significance for use in 
determining whether a proposed project will have a significant impact on climate change and provides the 
substantial evidence that lead agencies will need to support their use of these thresholds. The Strive San Mateo 
General Plan 2040 EIR  will follow this guidance for the assessment of potential impacts related to buildout. 
Appendix C, Guidance for Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategies, assists public agencies with preparation of 
community-wide GHG reduction strategies and CAPs. BAAQMD strongly recommends that cities and counties 
adopt a CAP that has been prepared consistent with State CEQA Guidelines, Section 15183.5(b), to demonstrate 
their ability to meet the State’s GHG reduction goals for 2030 and 2045 and to be updated as needed to align 
with State targets and local and regional growth forecasts. 
The City developed the CAP to consistent with CEQA Guidelines and BAAQMD’s guidance. The 2023 technical 
update to the 2020 CAP and accompanying environmental review included in the Strive San Mateo General Plan 
2040 Environmental Impact Report EIRdocumentation are consistent with the guidelines guidance set forth by 
BAAQMD for a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategyplan-level review of climate impacts and preparation of 
community-wide GHG reduction strategies (which parallel and elaborate upon criteria established in State CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) (1)).  The General Plan seeks to address this guidance with the Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Reduction Program, referenced by the General Plan and included as an attachment to it. As stated in 
319 of 599

--- page 320 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
31
the Land Use Element and as previously discussed, the City developed the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction 
Program to meet the requirements of BAAQMD’s guidance and corresponding criteria identified in the CEQA 
guidelines. 
This 2020 CAP continues to meet the requirements of the CEQA Gguidelines and commitments in the Land Use 
Element of the General Plan, as outlined below.
•
Quantify emissions, both existing and projected over a specified time period, resulting from activities 
within a defined geographic area (see Chapter 2).
•
Establish a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution of emissions from activities 
covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable (see Chapter 2). This CAP identifies three 
two targets, consistent with State guidance, that are further addressed in Chapter 2.
•
Reduce emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels (4915 percent% below 2005 levels) by 2030.2020
•
Reduce emissions to 4.3 MTCO2e per capita by 2030
•
Reduce emissions to 85 percent below 1990 levels (87 percent below 2005 levels)1.2 MTCO2e per 
capita by 20502045.
•
Identify and analyze the emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of actions anticipated 
within the geographic area (see Chapter 3 and Chapter 4).
•
Specify measures or a group of measures, including performance standards that substantial evidence 
demonstrates, if implemented on a project-by-project basis, would collectively achieve the specified 
emissions level (see Chapter 4). 
•
Establish a mechanism to monitor the plan’s progress toward achieving the level and to require 
amendment if the plan is not achieving specific levels (see Chapter 4). As referenced in the General Plan 
Land Use Element (page LU-29II-40), the City has developed a monitoring and implementation tool to 
track GHG emission changes over time. This CAP expands and updates the City’s monitoring framework 
with an implementation plan, updated monitoring tool, and a checklist for new development as described 
in Chapter 4 and Appendix 3.
•
Adopt the GHG Reduction Strategy in a public process following environmental review. The 2020 CAP, as 
updated in 2023, is evaluated under the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 EIR. City is adopting this 
2020 CAP as an Addendum to the General Plan EIR. 
Role of the Climate Action Plan in CEQA Implementation
Consistent with the State CEQA Guidelines, lead agencies may use adopted GHG reduction plans to assess the 
cumulative impacts of discretionary projects on climate change. In addition, the guidelines provide a mechanism 
to streamline development review of future projects. 
320 of 599

--- page 321 ---
CHAPTER 1
32
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Specifically, lead agencies may use adopted plans consistent with State CEQA Guidelines Section 15183.5 to 
analyze and mitigate the significant effects of GHGs under CEQA at a programmatic level by adopting a plan for 
the reduction of GHG emissions. Later, as individual projects are proposed, project-specific environmental 
documents may tier from and/or incorporate by reference that existing programmatic review in their cumulative 
impacts analysis. Project-specific environmental documents prepared for projects consistent with the General 
Plan and the CAP may rely on the programmatic analysis of GHGs contained in this document. 
A project-specific environmental document that relies on this CAP for its cumulative impacts analysis must 
identify specific GHG reduction measures applicable to the project and demonstrate the project’s incorporation 
of the measures. Project applicants and City staff will identify specific measures applicable to each project during 
project review. If applicable measures are not otherwise binding and enforceable, they must be incorporated as 
mitigation measures for the project. If substantial evidence indicates that the GHG emissions of a proposed 
project may be cumulatively considerable, notwithstanding the project’s compliance with specific measures in 
this CAP, an EIR must be prepared for the project. This CAP includes a Consistency Checklist, contained in 
Appendix 3, which City staff can use to keep track of which reduction measures an individual project complies 
with. This checklist also helps project applicants quickly identify which reduction measures may apply to their 
project.
CLIMATE ACTION PLANNING PROCESS
The City facilitated a collaborative process to prepare the CAP. City staff, the public, and an appointed advisory 
body, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, provided ongoing input on CAP development. 
Stakeholders in San Mateo vetted and recommended appropriate strategies reflective of the community. The 
outreach process served to develop a plan that responds to community leadership and priorities. The strategies 
in this CAP reflect those community priorities and recommendations. Engaging the community also allowed the 
City to build and nurture partnerships necessary to implement the CAP.
Staff Engagement
Many measures in this CAP rely on the City of San Mateo taking action to reduce community-wide GHG 
emissions. Interdepartmental engagement was essential in the development of the CAP to ensure that goals are 
attainable and appropriate for each responsible department. Members of the CAP project team consulted with 
staff from multiple City departments, including Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager’s 
Office. Drawing on the expertise of these departments helped define actions that the City was both capable and 
supportive of. Specific measures refined through staff engagement include transit-oriented development, 
sustainable streets, transportation demand management, recycling and waste reduction, development review, 
and housing programs.
321 of 599

--- page 322 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
33
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
In 2014, City Council created the Sustainability Commission and appointed five San Mateo residents. In 2018, the 
City Council combined the Sustainability Commission with the Public Works Commission, forming the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. This body provides recommendations to the City Council for 
policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, transportation, and infrastructure. Throughout the 
CAP update process, the project team met with the City of San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission five times to provide updates, answer questions, summarize quantitative analyses, and to collaborate 
on the development of new GHG reduction measures. The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was able 
to lend valuable insight aboutinto local priorities and concerns in the development of measures to meet 
reduction targets. This allowed for refinement of measures that focus on emissions sources and community 
values specific to San Mateo, helping to shape a CAP that improves the environmental, social, and economic 
health of the City. 
322 of 599

--- page 323 ---
CHAPTER 1
34
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Public Engagement
Residents of San Mateo were invited to contribute ideas and 
concerns throughout the CAP development process. The project 
team hosted a community workshop at the San Mateo Public 
Library. Additionally, five public meetings with the Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commission served as a platform for citizens to 
continue to voice their thoughts about the CAP update and 
related sustainability topics. 
Community Workshop
The City hosted a community workshop at the San Mateo Public 
Library on June 6, 2019. The goals of the forum were for 
participants to:
•
Become aware of the project and the community’s role in 
the planning process.
•
Learn about the CAP and CAP update, and San Mateo’s 
efforts to reduce GHG emissions.
•
Learn about the City’s contributions to climate change and 
the threat climate change poses to the community.
•
Engage with the CAP update team and share what they are 
doing to reduce GHGs, where they think more work by the 
City is needed, and what they think should be in the City’s 
strategy to address climate change.
Approximately 50 people attended the workshop. The event 
began with a half-hour presentation by members of the CAP update project team that reviewed the sources of 
San Mateo’s GHG emissions, an overview of the City’s efforts to implement the CAP since it was first adopted in 
2015, and a review of the new opportunities to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions. After the presentation was 
an open house session. During this period, the project team seven large posters around the room, and 
participants were provided with green, yellow, and red sticky dots. Six posters listed potential GHG reduction 
strategies for the 2020 CAP, and participants were asked to place sticky dots on the posters as a means of voting 
(green for policies that participants support, yellow for policies that participants would consider but have 
concerns about, and red for policies that participants do not support). The project team set up blank sheets of 
paper next to each poster and invited participants to leave more detailed comments. The seventh poster asked 
participants to write down a “big idea” for GHG reduction or share other open feedback.
San Mateo community members participate in the
June 6, 2019 CAP workshop.
Photo by PlaceWorks
323 of 599

--- page 324 ---
INTRODUCTION
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
35
During the open house period, participants were free to visit any or all posters in any order. Members of the 
project team were positioned at the different posters to answer questions and help guide participants through 
the activity.
Appendix 4 summarizes the results of the community workshop.
San Mateo community members shared their big ideas for GHG reduction at a community workshop.
Photo by PlaceWorks
324 of 599

--- page 325 ---
CHAPTER 1
36
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
This page has no content.
325 of 599

--- page 326 ---
Chapter 2
Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories, 
Forecasts, and 
Reduction Targets
BACKGROUND
State, regional, and local laws, along with agencies tasked with local regulatory oversight, have influenced 
common methods, and provided an impetus for identification of reduction targets in California. A greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions inventory and forecast lays the groundwork for thise 2020 CAP, which seeks to align the 
City’s GHG reduction efforts with state-recommended targets. The City is committed to achieving a 40 percent 
reduction from 1990 emissions levels by 20302020 (equivalent to a 4915 percent reduction below 2005 levels by 
20302020),  and an 85 percent reduction from 1990 levels by 2045 (equivalent to an 87 percent reduction below 
2005 levels). emissions of 4.3 MTCO2e per-capita by 2030, and emissions of 1.2 MTCO2e per-capita by 2050. 
BASELINE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION INVENTORY
A greenhouse gas inventory is a summary of the GHG emissions occurring as a result of activities that take place 
within a community. In some instances, the emissions themselves may be emitted within the jurisdiction, such as 
emissions from a car being driven within the community’s boundaries. In other cases, the emissions may occur 
elsewhere but are included because the activity responsible for generating the emissions took place within the 
jurisdiction, such as a community member using electricity generated by a power plant in another part of 
California. Inventories help allow elected officials, City staff, and members of the public to understand what 
activities generate GHG emissions.
326 of 599

--- page 327 ---
CHAPTER 2
38
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Protocols and Guidance
Reduction targets are developed based on a calculation of current and future GHG emissions, called the GHG 
inventory. The GHG inventory reflects the GHG emissions associated with everyday activities in the community 
of San Mateo, such as the electricity used in homes, miles traveled in vehicles, and waste sent to landfills. 
Creation of the community inventories is based on emissions factors and methods in an evolving field of science. 
Over the past several years, organizations in California and throughout the United States have established 
protocols to assist and guide communities in assessing GHG emissions from government operations and 
community activities. While these protocols are not regulatory, they identify relevant sources or activities, 
recommend methods to estimate GHG emissions from each source, and provide consistency in the identification, 
assessment, and presentation of emission results across multiple jurisdictions.
In California, and as recommended by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, many communities utilize 
the 2012 US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, commonly 
referred to as the US Community Protocol, to identify and assess community activities. The protocol provides 
guidance on how to measure and report community-wide GHG emissions, including identification of relevant 
sources or activities, methods to estimate GHG emissions from each source, and consistency in the identification, 
assessment, and presentation of emissions results across multiple jurisdictions. 
The City’s community-wide GHG inventory was prepared using protocols and best practices identified within the 
US Community Protocol, supported by methods in the Local Government Operations Protocol (LGOP) v. 1.1 
where appropriate. 
Prior Inventories
The 2020 CAP relies on three four existing GHG inventories, which were all revised for consistency with current 
recommended methods and best practices as part of this CAP: 
1) Aa 2005 baseline inventory originally developed by ICLEI and revised during the preparation of the 2015 
CAP, 
2) Aa 2010 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1), and 
3) AaA 2015 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1),
3)4) Aa 2017 inventory prepared as part of the regional RICAPS program (as discussed in Chapter 1).. 
327 of 599

--- page 328 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
39
In order toTo ensure accurate comparisons across all three existing inventories, the project team adjusted 
some of the methods of these past efforts to apply a consistent approach. This also helped ensure that all 
inventories were fully in compliance with the US Community Protocol. The project team made four five key 
changes to the inventories:
•
Updated Global Warming Potential (GWP) figures: Previous inventories used GWPs (measurements 
of how much heat is trapped by a unit of GHGs) reported in the IPCC’s Second Assessment Report, first 
released in 1995. The project team updated these values to use the most recent GWPs from the IPCC’s 
Fifth Assessment Report, which was released in 2013.
•
”Origin-destination” VMT methodology: In the past, inventories utilized the “in-boundary” 
methodology for estimating vehicle miles travelled (VMT) in San Mateo. This method includes all VMT 
that occur within the city boundary, including pass-through traffic, regardless of trip origin or destination. 
An alternative method, the “origin-destination” method, has been determined to be a more accurate 
representation of VMT in a city. As a result, the inventories were updated to use this approach. The “origin-
destination” VMT methodology only accounts for vehicle trips that begin and/or end within the city 
boundary and ignores “pass-through” trips that travel though San Mateo but begin and end elsewhere 
(for example, a person commuting from Redwood City to San Francisco on US-101).
•
Consistent off-road equipment method: Previous inventories used CARB’s OFFROAD2007 model to 
estimate total emissions from off-road equipment. The project team revised the off-road equipment 
emissions for all previous inventories using the updated CARB Emission Factor (EMFAC) model and 
updated US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) emission factors to maintain consistency with 
previous inventory methodologies.1 The EMFAC model provides more reliable information about off-road 
equipment types and fuel use in the region than the previous version.. The California Air Resources 
Board’s (CARB) OFFROAD2007 model estimates total emissions from all off-road equipment in a given 
year at a county level. In the past, inventories assigned emissions from all equipment categories included 
in this model to the City. However, the project team determined that it would be more accurate to exclude 
emissions from certain equipment types (e.g. oil drilling, agricultural equipment) that were not relevant 
to the City. Additionally, County-level off-road construction equipment emissions had previously been 
allocated to the City using the percent of total County jobs in the City. It was determined to be more 
accurate to assign off-road equipment emissions to the City using the percent of year-to-year County-
level service population change attributable to the City (e.g. if the County service population increased 
1,000 in one year and the City service population increased 100 in that same year, 10% of the County’s 
off-road construction equipment emissions would be allocated to the City).
1 EMFAC is a model developed by the California Air Resources Board to calculate statewide or regional emissions 
from vehicle activity data from all motor vehicles. More information can be found at: https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/.
328 of 599

--- page 329 ---
CHAPTER 2
40
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
•
Reporting of direct access electricity: In the past, data on total electricity use associated with direct 
access customers (customers that purchase electricity directly from a power provider, rather than a utility 
such as PCE or PG&E) in San Mateo was not available. Historically, direct access electricity consumption 
was estimated based on County-level direct access electricity consumption data. In recent years, direct 
access electricity consumption data has become available at the city level and the inventories were 
updated to reflect this.
•
Reporting of transmission and distribution losses for electricity and natural gas: Transmission and 
distribution losses in electricity refer to the energy lost as heat during the transportation of electricity 
from power plants to end-users through transmission and distribution networks. Similarly, methane 
emissions result from transmission and distribution of natural gas and end-use leakage. Methane end-
use leakage refers to the unintentional release of methane from the final use of natural gas, such as from 
pipelines, storage facilities, and appliances.
•
Land use and sequestration: Land use decisions can result in the release of emissions through the 
development of previously undeveloped land, or the removal (or sequestration) of carbon from the 
atmosphere through the creation and protection of urban trees and open space. The project team 
calculated land use emissions and sequestration (negative emissions) for the 2005 and 2019 inventories. 
20192017 Inventory
The project team prepared a 2017 2019 GHG inventory to provide the most up-to-date available measurement 
of how San Mateo’s GHG emissions have changed over time, including since the 2015 CAP. This inventory uses 
the same methods as the updated prior inventories, ensuring that all four inventories in the 2020 CAP are 
consistent with each other.
Inventory Results
The community-wide inventories in the 2020 CAP include the following sectors, consistent with guidance in the 
US Community Protocol: 
•
On-road transportation: on-road vehicle trips on local roads and State highways within the city limits.
•
Commercial/industrial built environment: electricity and natural gas used in nonresidential settings 
(e.g., industrial, commercial), including direct access electricity.
•
Residential built environment: electricity and natural gas used in residential settings.
•
Off-road equipment: the use of portable equipment and vehicles that do not travel on roads (e.g., 
construction or lawn and garden equipment).
329 of 599

--- page 330 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
41
•
Solid waste generation: material produced by the community that is deposited in landfills which 
decompose and produce methane.
•
Point sources: stationary source emissions resulting from fossil fuel combustion within the county as 
reported by BAAQMD
•
Landfills: emissions that occur in the inventory year as a result of waste-in-place at a landfill that is within 
the community boundary or operated by the City.
•
Rail: emissions resulting from Caltrain trips generated by passengers at three stations: San Mateo, 
Hayward Park, and Hillsdale, as well as emissions from freight trains.
•
Water and wastewater: energy used to treat and pump water used and wastewater created, along with 
emissions from the processing of wastewater.
•
Land use and sequestration: emissions resulting from development of previously -undeveloped land 
and sinks (negative emissions) from carbon sequestration of open space and urban trees.
•
Point sources: stationary source emissions resulting from fossil fuel combustion within the county as 
reported by BAAQMD. These emissions are included as an informational item and are not counted as part 
of the City’s total emissions based on guidance from BAAQMD as they are not under the jurisdiction of 
the City.
This CAP presents some GHG emissions in both absolute (total) and per-capita (emissions per resident) levels. 
This is because San Mateo’s GHG reduction targets, discussed at the end of this chapter, are expressed in both 
absolute and per-capita forms. Note that per-capita levels vary depending on the population, so changes in the 
number of residents will cause changes in per-capita emissions even if absolute emissions remain constant. Table 
2 shows the number of residents in San Mateo for the inventory years.
Table 2: San Mateo Population (2005 – 20197)
Indicator
2005
Value
2010
Value
2015
Value
2017
Value
2019 
Value
Percentage 
Change, 
2005–20197
Source
Population
93,400
97,110
101,610
103,470
104,599
121%
CA Dept. of 
Finance, ABAG 
In the baseline year of 2005, the GHG emissions from the covered activities totaled 666,410 660,600 MTCO2e, or 
7.1 MTCO2e per-capita, as shown in Table 3 and Figure 5. The sector with the largest portion of emissions was 
on-road transportation, which produced 282,370 282,380 MTCO2e, or 423 percent of all community emissions. 
The next largest sector, commercial/industrial built environment, produced 169,000 141,960 MTCO2e, 251 
330 of 599

--- page 331 ---
CHAPTER 2
42
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
percent of the total. The residential built environment was the third largest sector with 251 percent of total 
emissions (163,770 136,680 MTCO2e) followed by solid waste generation (22,180 or 3 percent), the off-road 
equipment (15,900 55,770 MTCO2e or 28 percent), solid waste generation (22,180 or 3 percent), point sources 
(7,390 MTCO2e or 1 percent), and landfill (7,370 MTCO2e or 1 percent) sectors. Rail emissions totaled 4,350 
MTCO2e (1 percent) and water and wastewater emissions totaled 2,520 MTCO2e (less than 1 percent of total 
emissions). Finally, land use and sequestration were responsible for a reduction in emissions of 1,050 MTCO2e, 
equivalent to removing 1 percent of total emissions. 
331 of 599

--- page 332 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
43
Table 3: San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions
Sector
MTCO2e (Absolute)
Percentage
On-road transportation
282,370 
42%
Commercial/industrial built environment
169,000 
25%
Residential built environment
163,770 
25%
Solid waste generation
22,180 
3%
Off-road equipment
15,900 
2%
Landfill
7,370 
1%
Rail
4,350 
1%
Water and wastewater
2,520 
0%
Land use and sequestration
-1,050
-1%
Total
667,460666,410 
100%
Informational Items
Point sources
7,390 
1%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
Figure 5:  San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)
* Point sources are included as an informational item and are not counted towards the total GHG emissions for the cCity.
On-road 
transportation: 
Commercial/ 
industrial built 
environment:
Residential built 
environment:
Off-road 
Solid waste 
generation:
Point sources:
1%*
Landfill:
Rail:
Water and 
wastewater:
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
MTCO2e
332 of 599

--- page 333 ---
CHAPTER 2
44
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Interim Inventories
The 2010, 2015, and 2017 inventories show how San Mateo’s GHG emissions have changed over time. Total 
emissions declined from 666,410660,600 MTCO2e in 2005 to 520,410541,960 MTCO2e in 20197, a decrease of 
2218 percent. Emissions from most sectors declined as well, except for emissions from point sources and rail 
activity. Overall, the relative proportion of emissions from different sectors remained similar (on-road 
transportation emissions remained the largest source of emissions, followed by residential and 
commercial/industrial built environment, then off-road equipment, etc.). Tables 4 and 5 and Figure 6 show the 
change in San Mateo’s community-wide GHG emissions from 2005 to 20197.
Table 4: San Mateo 2005-2017 2019 Community-Wide Emissions (Absolute)
Sector
2005 
(MTCO2e)
2010 
(MTCO2e)
2015
(MTCO2e)
2017 
(MTCO2e)
2019 
(MTCO2e)
Percentage 
Change, 
2005 to 
20197
On-road transportation
282,370 
287,550
280,570
269,110
276,560 
-2%
Commercial/industrial built 
environment
169,000 
151,200
137,350
101,720
83,660 
-50%
Residential built environment
163,770 
165,800
131,660
118,980
114,630 
-30%
Off-road equipment
15,900 
17,840
14,960
14,940
14,400 
-9%
Solid waste generation
22,180 
16,580
15,860
17,890
21,910 
-1%
Landfill
7,370 
6,670
6,030
5,800
4,180 
-43%
Rail
4,350 
4,480
4,410
4,520
4,440 
2%
Water and wastewater
2,520 
2,380
2,220
1,810
1,670 
-34%
Land use and sequestration
-1050.00
-1,050
-1,050
-1,040
-1040.00
-1%
Total
666,410 
651,450 
592,010 
533,730 
520,410 
-22%
Informational Item
Point sources
7,390
7,390
11,610
14,230
18,090
145%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
333 of 599

--- page 334 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
45
Table 5: San Mateo 2005-2017 Community-Wide Emissions (Per-Capita)
Sector
2005 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2010 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2015 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2017 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
Percent 
Change, 
2005 to 
2017 *
On-road transportation
3.02
2.96
2.76
2.60
-14%
Commercial/industrial built environment
1.52
1.35
1.18
0.83
-45%
Residential built environment
1.46
1.41
1.07
0.94
-35%
Off-road equipment
0.60
0.55
0.41
0.44
-27%
Solid waste generation
0.24
0.17
0.16
0.17
-27%
Point sources
0.08
0.76
0.11
0.14
74%
Landfill
0.08
0.07
0.06
0.06
-29%
Rail
0.05
0.05
0.04
0.04
-6%
Water and wastewater
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.02
-36%
Total
7.1
6.7
5.8
5.2
-26%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
334 of 599

--- page 335 ---
CHAPTER 2
46
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Figure 6: San Mateo 2005-20197 Community-Wide GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)
The decrease in GHG emissions from most sectors is due to less resource use, less GHG-intensive resources, or 
both. For example, San Mateo buildings used approximately 103 percent less electricity in 20197 than in 2005. 
Additionally, the electricity used in San Mateo also generated 7759 percent fewer GHGs per kilowatt-hour (kWh) 
in 20197 than in 2005, causing emissions from building electricity use to fall by 8064 percent. In another case, 
San Mateo community members drove 147 percent more miles in 20197 than 2005, but cars became 158 percent 
cleaner during this period, causing a 25 percent decline in emissions. 
It is important for community members to see their role in producing, and therefore reducing, GHG emissions. 
Table 56 presents the 2005 baseline and 2019 current-year inventory results in a per-capita format. In 2005, 
residents produced 7.14 MTCO2e per person. In 2019 residents produced 4.98 MTCO2e per person.
-100,000
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
2005
2010
2015
2017
2019
On-road transportation
Commercial/industrial built environment
Residential built environment
Off-road equipment
Solid waste generation
Landfill
Rail
Water and wastewater
Land use and sequestration
666,410 MTCO2e
651,450 MTCO2e
592,010 MTCO2e
533,730 MTCO2e
520,410 MTCO2e
335 of 599

--- page 336 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
47
Table 56: San Mateo 2005 and 2019 Community Emissions (Per-Capita)
2005
2019
MTCO2e per-capita
7.14
4.98
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FORECAST
A forecast of future GHG emissions helps to ensure consistency with the guidelines for a Qualified GHG Reduction 
Strategy put forward by BAAQMD, as described in Chapter 1. A forecast allows elected officials, City staff, and 
community members to identify the amount of reductions necessary in order to achieve future GHG reduction 
targets and can help support long-range community planning efforts. The CAP update includes a forecast for the 
calendar years 203020, 204030, and 20452050.
A GHGn emissions forecast estimates how emissions would grow over time if no action is taken at the federal, 
State, or local level to reduce them. A set of indicators determines the extent of growth that could occur and how 
resulting emissions may change. An emissions forecast was prepared for San Mateo using the best available 
information regarding indicators and growth rates. The forecast relies on growth assumptions from the buildout 
projections in the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.California Department of Finance and ABAG and were 
approved by City staff. Activity data rates in the forecast, such as household energy use, vehicle miles travelled, 
or per person waste disposal, are based on the 2017 2019 emissions inventory. 
Table 6 presents data from 2019 and these projections for the years 20202030, 20302040, and 20502045. 
Table 6: San Mateo 2019, 2030, 2040, and 2045 Growth Indicators
Indicator
2019
Value
2030
Value
2040
Value
2045 
Value
Percentage 
Change, 
201905–2045
Population
104,599
129,210
156,585
172,370
65%38%
Households
39,771
49,260
59,843
65,960
66%10%
Jobs
61,232
69,400
77,760
82,310
34%39%
Service population1
165,831
198,610
234,345
254,680
54%28%
1 Service population is the sum of the residential population and the number of jobs.
336 of 599

--- page 337 ---
CHAPTER 2
48
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Each indicator is used to project future emissions for the following sectors:
•
Population: off-road equipment (lawn and garden equipment, pleasure crafts, portable equipment, and 
recreational equipment).
•
Households: Residential built environment., on-road transportation (personal vehicles), off-road 
equipment (lawn and garden equipment, pleasure craft, and recreational equipment)
•
Jobs: Commercial/industrial built environment, on-road transportation (commercial vehicles), off-road 
equipment (entertainment equipment, industrial equipment and, light commercial equipment, Transport 
Refrigeration Units).
•
Service population: On-road transportation, rRail (Caltrain), off-road equipment (construction and mining 
equipment, transportation refrigeration units), solid waste generation, water and wastewater.
Residential population is not used as an indicator by itself, but it is combined with jobs to calculate service 
population. Emissions from direct access electricity, point sources, and freight trains are held constant, and are 
not projected to change over time. Construction and mining emissions, part of the off-road equipment sector, 
are forecasted by the change in service population. Landfill emissions are based on decomposition rates provided 
by CARB and are not forecasted by an indicator. Land use and sequestration emissions are based on the acreage 
of forested land, developed land, and urban areas, as projected by the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040. 
The project team applied these indicators to forecast future GHG emissions. Relative to 2017 2019 emissions, 
San Mateo’s GHG emissions are expected to rise by more than 4423 percent by 2050 2045 if no action is taken. 
The forecast assumes that each person in San Mateo will continue to contribute the same amount of GHGs to 
the community’s total, so that the amount of GHGs increase as the demographics of the community change. 
Tables 7 and 8 show San Mateo’s forecasted community-wide GHG emissions 
337 of 599

--- page 338 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
49
Table 7: San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals (Absolute)
Sector
2019 
(MTCO2e)
2030 
(MTCO2e)
2040 
(MTCO2e)
2045 
(MTCO2e)
Percentage 
Change, 
2019–2045
On-road transportation
276,560
308,930
351,730
375,310
36%
Commercial/industrial built 
environment
83,660
93,710
104,010
109,610
31%
Residential built environment
114,620630
141,960
172,460
190,110
66%
Off-road equipment
14,400
23,770
26,620
30,360
111%
Solid waste generation
21,910
26,240
30,960
33,650
54%
Landfill
4,180
4,470
3,660
3,310
-21%
Rail
4,440
5,220
6,080
6,560
48%
Water and wastewater
1,660670
1,990
2,340
2,540
53%
Land use and sequestration
-1,050040
-1,050
-1,050
-1,050
0%
Total
520,380400
605,240
696,810
750,400
44%
Percentage Change from 2005
-22%
-9%
5%
13%
Informational Item
Point sources
18,090
18,090
18,090
18,090
0%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
338 of 599

--- page 339 ---
CHAPTER 2
50
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Table 8: San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals (Per-Capita)
Sector
2017 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2020 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2030 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2050 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
Percentage 
Change, 
2017–2050
On-road 
transportation
2.60
2.69
2.68
2.55
-2%
Commercial/industrial 
built environment
0.83
0.73
0.69
0.62
-26%
Residential built 
environment
0.94
0.92
0.92
0.87
-7%
Off-road equipment
0.44
0.34
0.36
0.28
-39%
Solid waste generation
0.17
0.17
0.17
0.16
-8%
Point sources
0.14
0.13
0.12
0.10
-28%
Landfill
0.06
0.05
0.04
0.02
-63%
Rail
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
-10%
Water and wastewater
0.02
0.01
002
0.02
-8%
Total
5.2
5.1
5.0
4.6
-11%
Percentage Change 
from 2005
-26%
-28%
-29%
-34%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION TARGETS
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183.5(b) requires that a Qualified GHG 
Reduction Strategy contain a goal for substantive GHG reductions, although the guidelines do not set a specific 
level for what these goals should be. In the Climate Change Scoping Plan (Scoping Plan), the State provides its 
statewide GHG reduction targets (the targets for statewide emissions) and guidance for local communities. The 
CAP uses 2005 as a baseline year for measuring progress towards emission targets. In the 2015 CAP, the City 
adopted a GHG reduction target of 15 percent below the baseline 2005 GHG emission levels by 2020. The City 
chose this reduction target to remain consistent with the state-recommended target at the time, which was a 
reduction of 15 percent below existing levels by 2020, which is the local equivalent of the state’s own adopted 
reduction target of reducing emissions to 1990 levels. Although “existing emission levels” was not formally 
339 of 599

--- page 340 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
51
defined by the Scoping Plan, agencies throughout California have often interpreted it as referring to emissions 
occurring between 2005 and 2008. San Mateo’s GHG reduction strategies have used 2005 emissions as the 
“existing” levels and the State targets to inform the 2030 and 2045 targets listed below. 
 California’s statewide targets are absolute levels (a set amount below a specific level), while the guidance for 
local communities is a mix of absolute and per-capita targets. 
These statewide targets are:
•
2020: Reduce emissions to 1990 levels, codified into law by AB 32 (2006)
•
2030: Reduce emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels, codified into law by SB 32 (2016)
•
204550: Reduce emissions 850 percent below 1990 levels and achieve carbon neutrality, established by 
Executive Order S-03-05 (not yet codified into law).codified into law by AB 1279 (2022).
Scoping Plan recommendations for local plan level GHG reduction goals are:
•
2020: Reduce emissions 15% below baseline levels (2005 – 2008 per the AB 32 Scoping Plan)
•
2030: Reduce emissions to 6.0 MTCO2e per-capita
•
2050: Reduce emissions to 2.0 MTCO2e per-capita
Since the statewide per-capita targets are based on the statewide GHG emissions inventory that includes all 
emissions sectors in the State, the Scoping Plan notes it is appropriate for local jurisdictions to derive evidence-
based local per capita targets based on local emissions sectors and population projections that are consistent 
with the framework used to develop the statewide per-capita targets. The resulting GHG emissions trajectory 
should show a downward trend consistent with the statewide objectives. The City determined that the target that 
the State recommends for local communities for 2020 is consistent with the statewide target for this year, as the 
Scoping Plan says that 15% below baseline levels for local communities is consistent with returning to 1990 levels. 
However, the 2030 and 2050 per-capita targets are not entirely appropriate for San Mateo.Based on the results 
of the quantification process to identify the GHG reduction potential from this e 2020 CAP (see Chapter 3), the 
City determined that the statewide targets for 2030 and 2050 2045 were appropriatecannot be directly applied 
to for San Mateo. These targets are not feasible at this time, based on the City’s emissions profile and given City 
staffing and resources, projected population growth, and community characteristics. To ensure that the CAP can 
continue to serve as a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy, San Mateo has set its 2030 and 204550 targets based 
to align withon the State’s  recommended per-capita targets. for local efforts. In the quantification of the CAP 
measures, 2040 is used as an interim benchmark as it aligns with the horizon of Strive San Mateo General Plan 
2040 and tracks progress towards the 2045 target. These targets are meant to serve as ceilings for future GHG 
340 of 599

--- page 341 ---
CHAPTER 2
52
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
emissions. As discussed in the following chapter, the City has the potential to achieve greater GHG reductions, 
decreasing emissions below these levels.
Previous versions of the Scoping Plan have recommended per-capita targets According to the Scoping Plan, the 
per-capita targets are appropriate for community-wide plans, such as a CAP. The 2020 CAP, prior to the 2023 
update, used per-capita targets as recommended by the most recently adopted version of the Scoping Plan at 
the time it was written. With the adoption of AB 1279 and the 2022 Scoping Plan, State guidance recommends 
that local governments use “absolute” GHG reduction targets consistent with statewide GHG reduction goals. 
This version of the CAP uses absolute GHG reduction targets. version of the CAP no longer utilizes per-capita 
targets, Table X lists the per-capita emissions for the current-year inventory. The State calculated these targets 
by calculating the absolute emissions level set by the statewide target, and then dividing these levels by the 
statewide population projections. Table 9 shows this process.
Table 9: Calculation Process for State-Recommended Targets
2030
2050
1990 emissions level
431 million MTCO2e
431 million MTCO2e
Emissions target
260 million MTCO2e 
(established in Scoping Plan)
86 million MTCO2e (estimated, 
80 percent below 431 million 
MTCO2e)
Statewide population projection
43,939,250
49,077,801
Target per-capita (direct calculation)
5.9 MTCO2e per-capita
1.8 MTCO2e per-capita
Target per-capita (set in Scoping Plan)
6.0 MTCO2e per-capita
2.0 MTCO2e per-capita
However, the 1990 emissions level, and by extension the emissions target and the per-capita levels, include all 
emission sectors in the State, such as agriculture, petroleum refining, and oil and gas extraction. According to 
the Scoping Plan, this makes the per-capita thresholds inappropriate for use by individual development projects. 
As San Mateo’s CAP must continue to serve as a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy, its targets must be 
appropriate for its emissions, development projects, and the entire community.
The City calculated per-capita targets that are consistent with the State’s guidance for local governments by 
removing inapplicable emission sectors from the State’s inventory and recalculating a per capita target based on 
the same population projections. Table 10 shows how the City determined per-capita targets.
341 of 599

--- page 342 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
53
Table 10: Calculation Process for San Mateo Per-Capita Targets
2030
2050
Projected emissions with inapplicable sectors removed *
190.7 million MTCO2e †
57 million MTCO2e ‡
Statewide population projection
43,939,250
49,077,801
Per-capita target
4.3 MTCO2e per-capita 
1.2 MTCO2e per-capita
* The inapplicable sectors are Industrial, Oil and Gas Extraction, Petroleum Refining, Agriculture, and Non-Energy GHGs (e.g. 
refrigerants and emissions from cement production).
† From the State’s 2030 Scoping Plan Pathways scenario.
‡ Estimated by reducing all sectors of the State’s 1990 emissions inventory by 80 percent, consistent with the 2050 statewide 
goal.
Therefore, San Mateo’s GHG reduction targets as established by the 2020 CAP are listed below and shown in 
Table 8:
•
2020: Reduce emissions to 1990 levels (15% below baseline levels)
•
2030: Reduce emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels (49 percent below 2005 baseline levels)to 4.3 
MTCO2e per-capita
•
204550: Reduce emissions to 1.2 MTCO2e per-capita85 percent below 1990 levels (87 percent below 2005 
baseline levels)
Table 11 shows these emission targets, in both absolute and per-capita levels.
Table 11: San Mateo CAP Emission Targets (2020 – 2050)
2020
2030
2050
Absolute (MTCO2e)
561,510
529,760
172,310
Per-capita (MTCO2e per-capita)
5.1
4.3
1.2
These targets are meant to serve as ceilings for future GHG emissions. As discussed in the following chapter, the 
City has the potential to achieve greater GHG reductions, decreasing emissions below these levels.
342 of 599

--- page 343 ---
CHAPTER 2
54
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Qualified GHG Reduction Strategies
These revised targets help ensure that the 2020 CAP will continue to serve as San Mateo’s Qualified GHG 
Reduction Strategy, which allows developments that are consistent with the CAP to streamline their 
environmental review. As noted in Chapter 1, the requirements for a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy are:
•
Quantify emissions, both existing and projected over a time period, from activities in a defined area.
•
Establish a level, based on substantial evidence, below which the contribution of emissions from 
activities covered by the plan would not be cumulatively considerable.
•
Identify and analyze the emissions resulting from specific actions or categories of actions 
anticipated within the geographic area.
•
Specify measures or a group of persons that substantial evidence demonstrates, if implemented on 
a project-by-project basis, would collectively achieve the specified emissions level.
•
Establish a mechanism to monitor the plan’s progress toward achieving the level and to require 
amendment if the plan is not achieving specific levels.
•
Adopt the GHG reduction strategy in a public process following environmental review.
343 of 599

--- page 344 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, FORECASTS, AND 
REDUCTION TARGETS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
55
The targets in the 2020 CAP can apply to individual development projects as well as the entire community, helping to streamline 
the environmental review projects that are consistent with San Mateo’s GHG reduction efforts.
Photo by City of San Mateo
344 of 599

--- page 345 ---
345 of 599

--- page 346 ---
Chapter 3
Strategies to Achieve 
the Targets
To understand the level of action necessary to achieve the City’s reduction targets this updated CAP analyzes 
existing, planned, and future actions. By first looking at these accomplishments, the City can understand progress 
achieved and outstanding opportunities. Existing and current efforts provide a foundation for this CAP. New 
measures can further close the gap and guide future programs. Together, these efforts serve as the City’s 
multipronged strategy to achieve reduction targets. 
Table 812 shows the GHG emission levels that are expected to result when this CAP is fully implemented, based 
on the results of the analyses in this chapter, along with the GHG reduction targets.
Table 12:Table 8: San Mateo Emissions with 2020 CAP Implementation (2030 – 2045)
2030
2045
Projected Emission level
311,990 MTCO2e
80,550 MTCO2e
Target
339,876 880 MTCO2e
84,969 970 MTCO2e 
Target achieved?
Yes
Yes
Gap to target
-27,886 890 MTCO2e
-4,419 420 MTCO2e per-capita
The CAP achieves these reductions by accounting for the GHG reductions from existing and planned State, 
regional, and local activities, along with the reduction measures in the CAP itself. Table 9813 shows the reduction 
levels achieved by the individual measures in the CAP. More details about the measures and all other reductions 
are given below.
346 of 599

--- page 347 ---
CHAPTER 3
58
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Table 13:Table 9: Reductions from CAP Measures (2030 – 2045)
Measure
2030
2040
2045
BE 1: All-electric new construction
-21,070
-38,450
-47,250
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
-102,210
-184,610
-221,260
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
-160
-170
0
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
residences
-70
-160
0
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
nonresidential buildings
-60
-90
0
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
-6,160
-7,020
-6,790
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-3,800
-8,860
-13,380
EE 3: Residential tree planting
-<-Less than -
10
-<Less than -10
Less than-<10
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
-10
-30
-40
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings
-130
-200
-270
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-24,420
-49,390
-69,780
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
-4,910
-8,030
-12,360
CF 3: Clean city fleet
-130
-200
-270
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
-4,210
-16,920
-26,360
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
-80
-170
-180
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
-110
-120
-130
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ST 4: Public transit service
-3,610
-5,660
-6,910
ST 5: Commuter programs
Less than -10
-70
-160
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
-2,010
-7,950
-13,410
ST 7: Transit-oriented development
-10,200
-18,920
-23,700
347 of 599

--- page 348 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
59
Measure
2030
2040
2045
SW 1: Composting program
-1,030
-1,710
-1,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
-6,070
-7,730
-8,820
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
-2,080
-4,050
-5,590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
-170
-300
-360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
Less than -10
-10
0
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
Less than -10
-10
-20
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment
-3,660
-7,130
-9,890
Total
-196,360
-367,960
-468,780
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Existing and Planned Accomplishments
Both State and local efforts have achieved additional progress toward the reduction target, reducing the 
outstanding gap of emissions to achieve the City’s reduction targets described in the previous chapter. 
As mentioned in Chapter 2, the GHG emissions forecast is based on the results of the 2017 2019 inventory and 
assumes that per-capita activity remains constant, so that changes in projected emissions are based on expected 
changes in San Mateo’s demographics. This approach means that any action taken through 2017 2019 to reduce 
GHG emissions is already taken into consideration for the forecast. For example, if homes installed solar energy 
systems in 20186, the effect of that action (lower residential electricity use) will already show up in the 20197 
inventory, and by extension will be carried through into the forecast. 
State Existing and Planned Accomplishments
Since passing Assembly Bill (AB) 32, the State has enacted regulations and programs to reduce GHG emissions. 
Although statewide in scope, these actions affect several sources of San Mateo’s emissions, and so the local 
benefits of these State efforts can be “credited” to San Mateo even in cases where the community has not needed 
to take any action. This CAP includes the local benefits from five State policies:
•
Renewables Portfolio Standard: The Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) was first established in 2002 
and has been amended multiple times, mostly recently by SB 100 in 2018. It requires all electricity 
providers in the State to obtain at least 33% of their electricity from eligible renewable resources by the 
end of 2020, 60% of their electricity from eligible renewable resources by the end of 2030, and all of their 
348 of 599

--- page 349 ---
CHAPTER 3
60
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
electricity from carbon-free (although not necessarily eligible 
renewable) resources by the end of 2045. This policy reduces GHG 
emissions from electricity use, including electricity used to 
transport and process water and wastewater, and electricity used 
for electric vehicles.
•
Clean Car Standards: In 2002, California adopted AB 1493, the 
New Passenger Motor Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission 
Standards or Pavley standard. It requires a reduction in tailpipe 
GHG emissions from new vehicles produced from 2009 to 2015. 
In 2012 CARB adopted an extension of this policy, the Advanced 
Clean Car Standards, which require more stringent reductions in 
tailpipe GHG emissions from vehicles produced from 2016 to 
2025. In 2022, CARB adopted a further extension, known as 
Advanced Clean Cars II, which apply to vehicles produced from 
2026 to 2035, and require that all new light-duty vehicles sold in 
California be zero-emission by 2035 2. The Clean Car Standards 
(including the Advanced Clean Car Standards) reduce GHG 
emissions from on-road transportation.
•
Title 24 Energy Efficiency Standards: Title 24 is California’s 
energy efficiency standards for new buildings, applied at the local 
level through the project review process. The standards are 
strengthened every three years, with the ultimate goal of making 
new buildings net-zero energy, meaning that they would generate as much energy as they use. The most 
recent set of Title 24 standards wentill go into effect on January 1, 20202023. This policy will reduce GHG 
emissions from electricity and natural gas use in new homes and nonresidential buildings.
•
Local Carbon Fuel Standard: The Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) was adopted in 2009 and requires a 
10% reduction in the carbon intensity of all transportation and equipment fuels by 2020. This policy 
reduces GHG emissions from on-road transportation and from off-road equipment.
2 At time of writing, the federal government has issued regulations that would preempt the Advanced Clean Car Standards, 
an action that is currently being challenged in court. The  2020 CAP assumes that the Advanced Clean Car Standards remain 
in effect. Future updates to the CAP can amend the plan in response to the outcomes of this challenge, if necessary. 
Renewable and 
Carbon-Free 
Electricity
California’s RPS establishes 
requirements for both eligible 
renewable and carbon-free 
electricity. Eligible renewable 
resources are those that are 
specifically defined under state 
law, and include solar, wind, 
geothermal, small-scale 
hydroelectric, and most forms of 
bioenergy. Carbon-free sources 
include eligible renewable 
sources, as well as others that do 
not emit GHGs but are not 
officially defined as renewable, 
including large-scale 
hydroelectric and nuclear energy.
349 of 599

--- page 350 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
61
•
Innovative Clean Transit: California’s Innovative Clean Transit regulation, also known as the zero-
emission bus standard, was adopted in 2018. It requires the State’s public transit agencies to use all zero-
emission buses, such as battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell models, by 2040. This regulation will reduce 
emissions from on-road transportation activities. 
•
SB 1383: California’s SB 1383 aims to reduce GHG emissions from organic waste by requiring businesses 
and residents to separate their organic waste from other waste streams for recycling or composting. The 
law sets targets for reducing organic waste disposal in landfills by 75 percent by 2025 and requires local 
jurisdictions to implement organic waste recycling programs to meet these goals.
Collectively, the State reduction efforts are expected to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions below forecasted 
levels by 72,89024,080 MTCO2e in 203020, 147,970107,780 MTCO2e in 20302040, and 196,150194,570 MTCO2e 
in 204550. Table 104 shows the emission reductions from the individual State existing activities.
Table 14:Table 10: San Mateo Community-Wide GHG Emissions Reductions from State Programs
Policy
2030 Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
2040 Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
2045 Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
Forecasted emissions 
605,240
696,810
750,400
Clean Car Standards 1
-55,030
-95,730
-109,680
Renewables Portfolio Standard
-4,720
-15,330
-39,860
Title 24
-9,380
-32,480
-41,790
SB 1383
-3,760
-4,430
-4,820
Total reductions from existing State programs
-72,890
-147,970
-196,150
Emissions with existing State programs
532,340
548,840
554,260
1: Includes reductions from the Low Carbon Fuel Standard for transportation fuels
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
There are other programs that reduce GHG emissions that State agencies have adopted or are planning to put 
into effect. These are not included in this section because of uncertainty about how these programs will be 
applied. In many cases, State programs may be implemented by local actions, and reductions associated with 
these programs are included in the local reduction measures discussed later in this chapter.
350 of 599

--- page 351 ---
CHAPTER 3
62
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Existing and Planned Local and Regional Accomplishments
The City of San Mateo has a successful history of developing and implementing sustainability policies. The City’s 
adopted plans, along with leadership from community members and businesses have been partially responsible 
for the decline in GHG emissions since 2005. Several policies are currently in place that are expected to further 
reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions. Some of these accomplishments were established before the City adopted 
its first CAP in 2015, while others were implemented in response to the 2015 CAP. 
The project team identified the following existing local and 
regional efforts that are expected to reduce San Mateo’s future 
GHG emissions:
•
Peninsula Clean Energy: Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is 
a community choice energy program run by the local 
governments of San Mateo County that is the default 
electric provider for the City of San Mateo and provided 
approximately 8773 percent of the community’s electricity 
as of 20197 (expected to grow to more than 90 percent by 
2020). First established in 2016, PCE provides electricity to 
community members from a higher proportion of 
renewable and carbon-free sources than PG&E. As of 
2021, PCE plans to supplysupplies 100 percent% carbon-
free electricity by 2021 and plans to supply 100 percent% 
renewable electricity by 2025.
•
Energy efficiency retrofits: A number of single-family homes, multi-family homes, and businesses in 
San Mateo have conducted energy efficiency retrofits. These retrofits involve replacing older appliances 
with more energy-efficient models, upgrading insulation, improved sealing around windows and doors, 
and other types of activities. Since the 2015 CAP was adoptedFrom 2015 to 2019, over 1,600 single-family 
and multi-family homes and at least 66 businesses, have completed energy efficiency retrofits through 
programs such as Energy Upgrade California and the San Mateo County Energy Watch.
•
Solar energy installation: Since 2016, San Mateo has required in its building code that all new residential 
and non-residential buildings install solar energy systems. Many existing building owners have also 
chosen to voluntarily install these systems on their properties, reducing their electricity bills and 
increasing the amount of renewable energy used by the community. Since the 202015 CAP was adopted, 
San Mateo has installed close to 7800 solar energy systems, capable of generating almost 45 MW of 
power. 
Peninsula Clean Energy provides most of San 
Mateo’s electricity, and offers a cleaner mix of
energy sources than PG&E by default.
Photo by City of San Mateo
351 of 599

--- page 352 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
63
•
Upgraded streetlights program: San Mateo has replaced over 5,600 streetlights in the community with 
LED bulbs that use significantly less energy than older bulbs. This program is expected to save 
approximately 2 million kWh of electricity annually, equal to the yearly electricity use of almost 400 San 
Mateo homes. These LED bulbs also provide higher quality lighting and reduce light pollution in 
accordance with the Dark Sky Objectives.
•
Municipal energy efficiency retrofits: In addition to the Smart Street Light program and retrofits by 
private property owners, San Mateo has conducted several energy efficiency retrofits at municipal 
properties. At the end of 2017, the City began working with PG&E to identify potential retrofit activities 
through the Sustainable Systems Turnkey program. San Mateo secured approximately $3.2 million in 
funding for energy- efficiency upgrades to municipal facilities. Since 202014, San Mateo has conducted 
three significant retrofits to City facilities, saving over 650,0001,831,170 kWh and 22,871 therms annually. 
The City has also carried out lighting retrofits at small buildings such as public park restrooms and storage 
sheds, using a grant from the San Mateo County Energy Watch.
Caltrain shuttles: The regional Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance operates three public shuttles in 
San Mateo, transporting riders from the Hillsdale Caltrain station to employment centers throughout the 
community. These three shuttles served approximately 58,900 people in 2018, a ridership increase of 
approximately 7 percent compared to 2017.
Electric vehicle adoption: San Mateo, like many other Bay 
Area communities, has been a leader in adopting electric 
vehicles (EVs). When San Mateo’s original CAP was 
adopted in 2015, there were approximately 1,050 EVs 
registered in the community, including plug-in hybrids. 
San Mateo adopted requirements for new development 
that went into effect in 2017, mandating that multi-family 
and nonresidential developments install EV chargers at a 
set number of parking spaces. By the end of 2017, the 
number of EVs had more than doubled to approximately 
2,290, making EVs approximately 2 percent of all cars 
registered in the community. This number is expected to 
increase in 2018 and beyond, continuing to reduce 
emissions from on-road transportation activities. San 
Mateo has adopted a revised building standard code that 
will go into effect in 2020 and will require more EV 
chargers and EV-capable spaces at all types of new developments.
Public electric vehicle charging stations at a
shopping center in San Mateo.
Photo by PlaceWorks
Commented [EK9]:  Remove this since there’s nothing new 
to quantify?
352 of 599

--- page 353 ---
CHAPTER 3
64
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
•
Public-access EV chargers: The City of San Mateo has installed 5518 publicly accessible EV charging 
stations in the community since 2020, including two DCincluding DC fast chargers that can recharge an 
electric vehicle in less than an hour. In addition to helping to support EV adoption in San Mateo itself, the 
presence of publicly accessible EV chargers also helps boost EV adoption in the region, making it easier 
for people to use EVs for longer trips.
•
Transportation Demand Management: San Mateo requires that new significant developments along 
the Caltrain corridor reduce the number of trips they generate relative to a conventional development 
project. Since 2017, there have been 895 residential units and approximately 158,370 square feet of 
nonresidential space planned or under construction in San Mateo that are subject to trip reduction 
requirements.
•
Additional bicycle lanes: San Mateo published the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, which proposes the 
development of an additional 45 miles of bicycle lanes to achieve a target of 101 bicycle lanes citywide. 
Improved bike infrastructure and increased connectivity of the bicycle network can reduce VMT as 
residents are encouraged to replace vehicle trips with bicycle trips. Since its publication, approximately 6 
miles of bicycle lanes have been completed. 
•
Composting: San Mateo first established a composting program in 2011, allowing participating residents 
and businesses to place organic waste in a dedicated waste bin to be picked up by the community waste 
hauler along with trash and recyclables. Since 2015, almost all single-family homes in San Mateo 
participated in the program. In recent years, a smaller number of multi-family units and businesses have 
added composting service. 
There isare also two one planned actions accounted for in this CAP:
•
Caltrain electrification: This is a plan to install overhead power lines above the tracks on the Caltrain 
commuter rail line between San Francisco and San Jose, which will allow Caltrain to replace most of its 
diesel-powered locomotives with electric ones, significantly reducing GHG emissions from Caltrain 
operations. As of 202019, some electric lines have been installed, but electric trains are not expected to 
begin carrying passengers until at least 20241. Reductions from this planned activity are not counted in 
2020 but are credited for 2030 and 2050.
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program: The Sustainable Solutions Turnkey (SST) program is a PG&E program 
that provides engineering design and construction services for nonresidential customers on energy efficiency, 
water efficiency, and on-site energy generation retrofits. The projects are funded through on-bill financing, 
allowing customers to pay for the work in installments through additional charges on their energy bills over time. 
At the end of 2017, the City began working with PG&E to identify potential retrofit activities through the SST 
program. San Mateo secured approximately $3.2 million in funding for energy efficiency upgrades to municipal 
facilities that are expected to save approximately 1.7 million kWh and 10,910 therms annually. The project is 
353 of 599

--- page 354 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
65
expected to be completed in 2021, so reductions are credited for 2030 and 2050, but not 2020.Some actions 
included in the initial version of the 2020 CAP are removed for the 2023 technical CAP update as they no longer 
produce additional GHG emission reductions beyond 2020. GHG emission savings from these programs are 
already accounted for in the 2019 GHG inventory and projections of future emissions. These include:
•
Upgraded streetlights program: San Mateo has replaced over 5,600 streetlights in the community with 
LED bulbs that use significantly less energy than older bulbs. This program is expected to save 
approximately 2 million kWh of electricity annually, equal to the yearly electricity use of almost 400 San 
Mateo homes. These LED bulbs also provide higher- quality lighting and reduce light pollution in 
accordance with the Dark Sky Objectives.
•
Caltrain shuttles: The regional Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance operates three public shuttles 
in San Mateo, transporting riders from the Hillsdale Caltrain station to employment centers throughout 
the community. These three shuttles served approximately 58,900 people in 2018. Ridership of the 
shuttles decreased during the COVID-19 pandemic shelter-in-place period and is therefore not quantified 
as a GHG reduction measure. 
•
Composting: San Mateo first established a composting program in 2011, allowing participating residents 
and businesses to place organic waste in a dedicated waste bin to be picked up by the community waste 
hauler along with trash and recyclables. With the passage of SB 1383, any GHG emission reductions 
associated with composting are quantified as part of the State measure. 
•
Electric vehicle adoption: San Mateo, like many other Bay Area communities, has been a leader in 
adopting EVs. When San Mateo’s original CAP was adopted in 2015, there were approximately 1,050 EVs 
registered in the community, including plug-in hybrids. San Mateo adopted requirements for new 
development that went into effect in 2017, mandating that multi-family and nonresidential developments 
install EV chargers at a set number of parking spaces. By the end of 2017, the number of EVs had more 
than doubled to approximately 2,290, making EVs approximately 2 percent of all cars registered in the 
community. San Mateo adopted a revised building standard code in 2020, which requires more EV 
chargers and EV-capable spaces at all types of new developments. Since the projected rate of EV adoption 
locally does not surpass the State level adoption projection, any GHG emission reductions associated with 
EV adoption are quantified as part of the State’s Clean Fuel Standards. 
This is not a comprehensive list of all existing and planned local and regional accomplishments that may reduce 
GHG emissions. The City and its regional partners have implemented many other policies and programs that may 
contribute to GHG reductions. However, these efforts may not have clearly measurable reductions, or data on 
their effectiveness may not be available. In these cases, the project team is unable to credit a GHG reduction to 
these efforts.
354 of 599

--- page 355 ---
CHAPTER 3
66
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
As with the State reductions, the 2020 CAP credits reductions from local and regional efforts that go beyond the 
policies in place as of 20172019, as conditions that existed in 2017 2019 are already factored into the forecast. 
In addition, the 2020 CAP only credits local and regional reduction efforts if they go beyond State policy. For 
example, San Mateo receiveds significant reduction credits from EV adoption in 2020 because the local numbers 
exceed what the State forecasts for the region. However, by 2030, State policies are expected to increase EV 
adoption to exceed San Mateo’s current rate, so the community does not receive any additional GHG reductions 
from local accomplishments.
Collectively, San Mateo’s existing and planned local and regional accomplishments are expected to reduce 
emissions by 23,99023,700 MTCO2e in 20202030, 32,47018,360 MTCO2e in 20302040, and 4,950120 MTCO2e in 
20502045, in addition to the reductions achieved by State accomplishments. Table 11015 shows the reductions 
from each local and regional accomplishment.
Table 15:Table 11: Emissions Reductions from Local and Regional Programs
Policy
2030 GHG 
Emissions
(MTCO2e)
2040 GHG 
Emissions
(MTCO2e)
2045 GHG 
Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
Emissions with Existing State Programs
532,340
548,840
554,260
Peninsula Clean Energy
-20,000
-13,750
0
Energy efficiency retrofits
-30
-30
-30
Solar energy installations
-20
-10
0
Municipal energy retrofits
-160
-160
-160
Public access EV chargers
0
0
0
Transportation Demand Management
-220
-200
-190
Caltrain electrification (planned)
-3,560
-4,200
-4,560
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program (planned)
0
-0
-10
Total reductions from existing and planned local 
and regional programs
-23,990
-18,360330
-4,950940
Emissions with existing and planned local and 
regional programs
508,380
530,510
549,320
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Existing and planned local, regional, and State accomplishments reduce San Mateo’s forecasted GHG emissions 
by a significant amount. Table 1216 shows the benefit of these accomplishments relative to San Mateo’s 
baseline.
355 of 599

--- page 356 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
67
Table 16:Table 12: Emissions with Existing and Planned Efforts
Policy
2030
2040
2045
2005 (baseline) emissions (MTCO2e)
666,430
666,430
666,430
Emissions with existing and planned programs (MTCO2e)
508,380
530,510
549,320
Percent below baseline emissions
-24%
-20%
-18%
REVISED AND NEW GHG REDUCTION MEASURES 
A central goal of the CAP update is to achieve additional GHG reductions to work toward the City’s 2030, 2040, 
and 2050 2045 reduction target, recognizing that the reduction measures in the 2015 CAP are insufficient to 
meet these reductions. To identify these additional reductions, the project team began with the 28 GHG reduction 
measures in the City’s 2015 CAP. Some of these measures have been fully implemented, and do not need to be 
carried forward into the CAP update. Others are still applicable and can be revised or expanded to achieve 
additional GHG reductions. There are also opportunities to add entirely new measures to address new and 
emerging issues not covered in the 2015 CAP.
The project team based the revised and new GHG reduction measures on several sources, including:
•
San Mateo’s inventory and forecast.
•
The existing and planned State, regional, and local accomplishments.
•
Discussions with City staff to identify past successes and challenges, plans and opportunities, and goals 
and priorities related to GHG reduction efforts.
•
An audit of energy-related strategies being recommended and implemented by communities throughout 
San Mateo County through the RICAPS program, working with staff from PCE and the San Mateo County 
Office of Sustainability
•
Feedback and direction from Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission members, along with 
comments provided by members of the public at these meetings.
•
Comments and results of the priority voting activity at the June 6, 2019, community workshop.
356 of 599

--- page 357 ---
CHAPTER 3
68
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Calculating Credit
This CAP uses a process called quantification to determine the amount of GHG emissions reduced by each 
measure. The foundation for the quantification calculations is the baseline GHG inventory and forecast. Activity 
data from the inventory, such as vehicle miles traveled (VMT) or kilowatt-hours (kWh), are combined with 
participation rates and data about the reduction in activity data from each action to calculate the GHG reduction 
benefit of each measure. This approach ensures that the GHG reductions from San Mateo’s CAP measures are 
tied to current and future activities that are actually occurring in the community.
Calculations for reductions in activity data come from tools and reports provided by government agencies; these 
agencies include the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the California Energy Commission (CEC), the 
California Air Resources Board (CARB), the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association, the US 
Department of Energy, and local air districts. If accurate data are not available through these sources, the 
quantification uses case studies from comparable communities and applicable scholarly research. The specific 
quantification process for each measure is presented in Appendix 1, which includes a list of data sources and 
assumptions. 
The project team was able to identify GHG reductions for most of the measures in this CAP. However, there are 
a few that do not have a specific reduction level due to missing data or the lack of a reliable method. These 
efforts are still expected to reduce GHG emissions, but the level cannot be accurately determined. These 
measures are labeled as supportive. 
GHG Reduction Measures
Based on the results of this process, the project team identified a total of 29 GHG reduction measures to include 
in thise 2020 CAP. These measures include a mix of education and outreach programs to encourage GHG 
reduction activities, financial subsidiessubsidies, and other enticements to incentivize GHG reductions, and 
mandates to require GHG reduction efforts. These 29 measures are organized into nine 9 categories:
1) Building Electrification (BE)
2) Renewable Energy (RE)
3) Energy Efficiency (EE) 
4) Municipal Energy Efficiency and 
Electrification (ME)
5) Off-Road Equipment (OR)
6) Clean Transportation Fuels (CF)
7) Sustainable Transportation (ST)
8) Solid Waste (SW)
9) Water and Wastewater (WW)
357 of 599

--- page 358 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
69
Each measure entry includes a description of the measure, the anticipated 20202030, 20302040, and 2050 2045 
GHG reductions achieved by the measure at the projected performance level, and the recommended actions 
necessary to implement it. Assumptions, projected performance levels, sources, and metrics used to calculate 
GHG reductions are given for each measure in Appendix 1. Each measure entry also identifies the co-benefits of 
the measure, which are advantages provided by the measure beyond GHG reduction. Figure 7 presents the co-
benefits assessment for each GHG reduction measure.
Figure 6:Figure 7: CAP Co-Benefits
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Reduces utility bills
Saves energy
Building Electrification (BE)
Most buildings, both residential and nonresidential, use electricity and natural gas to operate appliances and 
other pieces of equipment. While sources of electricity have become much cleaner over time and will continue 
to become cleaner due to State law and utility policies, the GHG emissions associated with using a unit of natural 
gas has remained constant, as natural gas is a fossil fuel and cannot become a cleaner energy source. Buildings 
that receive most or all their energy from electricity instead of natural gas can significantly reduce their GHG 
emissions as a result. Buildings can be constructed to be mostly -electric or all-electric, or existing buildings can 
be electrified as part of retrofit activities. Advances in electric appliances, such as those used for space heating, 
water heating, and cooking, have helped make building electrification easier and more cost-effective.
BE 1: All-electric new construction
As San Mateo property owners construct new residential and nonresidential buildings, they have the option to 
construct these buildings to receive most or all their energy from electricity rather than natural gas. Not having 
to install natural gas piping decreases the cost of construction. New buildings in San Mateo must also install 
solar panels to generate electricity, and so all-electric buildings with solar panels may be able to generate all the 
energy they need on-site.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
21,070
38,450
47,250
358 of 599

--- page 359 ---
CHAPTER 3
70
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Recommended actions:
•
For each three-year code cycle, adopt a reach code to encourage residential and commercial new 
construction to be built to an all-electric standard, including electric heating, cooling, and water heating.
•
Explore the feasibility of reducing permitting fees if builders elect to construct all-electric buildings 
instead of buildings that use natural gas.
Co-benefits: 
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Reduces utility bills
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
Although most existing buildings already have natural gas infrastructure and natural gas devices installed, these 
systems can be converted to all-electric. Electric appliances that replace natural gas-powered models are highly 
efficient, readily available, and cost-effective. Many buildings can install these appliances with simple electric 
wiring and panel upgrades, if upgrades are required at all. The cost of converting existing buildings to mostly- 
or all-electric can be further reduced if the electrification is done as part of a larger retrofit activity.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
102,210
184,610
221,260
Recommended actions:
•
Encourage residents and businesses to purchase electric technologies (e.g., air source heat pumps, heat 
pump water heaters, electric dryers, and electric stoves).
•
Encourage residents and businesses to upgrade electric panels to accommodate electric technologies 
including solar PV, battery storage, air source heat pumps, heat pump water heaters, electric dryers, and 
electric stoves.
•
Support training and outreach to residents, businesses, contractors, vendors, and installers about 
preferable electric equipment replacement technologies.
359 of 599

--- page 360 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
71
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Reduces utility bills
360 of 599

--- page 361 ---
CHAPTER 3
72
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Renewable Energy (RE) 
While much of San Mateo’s electricity already comes from renewable or carbon-free sources, increasing the 
amount of energy in the community from renewable sources not only further reduces GHG emissions but also 
has the potential to reduce the cost of electricity for residents and enhance the local economy. By incentivizing 
on-site electricity generation and storage and thereby decentralizing the creation of energy, the City of San 
Mateo also becomes more resilient to grid failures and power shutoffs and helps make the community less 
dependent on outside resources.
Renewable Energy Emissions Reductions in 20502045
Measures that only reduce electricity use or increase renewable electricity supplies will show zero GHG 
reductions in 20502045. This is because all electricity sold in California must be carbon-free by 2045, as 
required by the State’s Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS). Since there will already be no emissions from 
electricity use in 20502045, San Mateo cannot count additional reductions associated with electricity in this 
year. This CAP already credits reductions from the RPS as an existing State program.
While Peninsula Clean Energy supplies most of San Mateo’s electricity and plans to beis carbon-free by as of 
2021, some San Mateo customers are still expected to receive their electricity from PG&E or direct access 
providers. As these providers are not expected to be carbon-free until required by the State, measures that 
reduce electricity use or increase renewable electricity supplies will show some GHG reductions in 2030 and 
2040, even though most of the community will already use carbon-free electricity.
Remember that local renewable energy systems and energy efficiency measures will continue to provide 
several co-benefits to the community, including lower electricity bills and increased resiliency against power 
disruptions, even if there are no measurable additional GHG reductions.
361 of 599

--- page 362 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
73
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
Since beginning operations in 2016, the county-wide Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) program has been highly 
successful in increasing the amount of renewable and carbon-free electricity used by the community. As of 20197, 
more than 97 percent of San Mateo’s residents and businesses receive their electricity from PCE..  San Mateo can 
achieve more GHG reductions with PCE by encouraging the remaining residents and businesses to participate in 
the program and by supporting efforts for customers to upgrade to PCE’s ECO 100 service, which provides all 
electricity from renewable sources.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
160
170
0
Recommended actions: 
•
Encourage residents and businesses to participate in Peninsula Clean Energy.
•
Encourage residents and businesses participating in PCE to opt up to ECO 100.
•
Support PCE’s outreach to direct access customers to encourage use of carbon-free electricity.
Co-benefits:
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills
362 of 599

--- page 363 ---
CHAPTER 3
74
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences
The addition of renewable energy systems to new residential buildings can often meet (and even exceed) the 
energy demand of the home. State and local regulations already require new homes to install solar panels of a 
particular size, but homeowners can choose to install larger systems to generate additional power. Existing homes 
not subject to this requirement can also benefit from installing renewable energy systems. Extra energy can meet 
any additional electricity needs of the home, or can be sold back to the grid, which helps reduce the amount of 
energy needed from nonrenewable sources and can help the homeowner finance the project. 
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
70
160
0
Recommended actions: 
•
For each three-year code cycle, adopt reach codes to require residential developments to install 
renewable energy systems, including solar photovoltaic or solar water heating, as needed to exceed State 
requirements.
•
Provide education and outreach to residents and contractors on the benefits of pairing battery storage 
with solar PV systems.
•
Explore the feasibility of reducing or eliminating solar permitting fees.
•
Provide information to property owners about discounts, incentives, and financing programs for 
renewable energy systems, including solar bulk purchase programs and financing programs that allow 
property owners to incrementally pay for renewable energy systems.
•
Provide education and outreach to stakeholders on the benefits of retrofitting existing residential 
buildings to be zero net energy.
•
Promote the installation of renewable energy and energy storage systems as part of major home retrofit 
projects.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Promotes equity
Reduces utility bills
363 of 599

--- page 364 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
75
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings
The addition of distributed-generation renewable energy systems to nonresidential buildings helps reduce the 
amount of energy from nonrenewable sources the building requires, and in some cases may exceed the amount 
of electricity needed. While San Mateo requires that new nonresidential buildings include renewable energy 
systems, this requirement does not apply to existing buildings, which can still take advantage of the benefits 
provided by these systems. New nonresidential buildings can also install larger systems than local standards 
require, producing an additional amount of renewable energy that can either be used by the building or sold 
back to the grid. New construction that is built to include such systems helps reduce GHG emissions and may 
save businesses money on utility costs.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
60
90
0
Recommended actions: 
•
For each three-year code cycle, adopt reach codes to require nonresidential developments to install 
renewable energy systems, including solar photovoltaics or solar water heating, as needed to exceed 
State requirements.
•
Promote financing programs that allow developers, property owners, and tenants to incrementally pay 
for renewable energy systems.
•
Explore the feasibility of reducing or eliminating solar permitting fees.
•
Work with appropriate property owners to identify potential sites for a microgrid demonstration project. 
Provide education and outreach to these property owners on the multiple benefits of developing a 
microgrid, including reliability, cleaner energy, and cost savings.
•
Encourage property owners to pair battery storage systems with solar PV systems.
•
Support development of a local rebate program for on-site renewable energy systems.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills
364 of 599

--- page 365 ---
CHAPTER 3
76
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Energy Efficiency (EE)
Electricity and natural gas are used to heat, cool, and light buildings, as well as to operate appliances and 
machinery. This goal seeks to provide opportunities for businesses and residents to conserve energy and 
maximize efficiency, which in turn reduces energy costs, supports the local economy, and further reduces GHG 
emissions. 
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
Older homes, especially those built before incorporation of energy efficiency and green building standards in 
local and State building codes (generally before 1980), are less energy efficient than newer buildings. Home 
retrofit programs address a variety of improvements in existing houses and include upgrades to insulation, 
windows, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, lighting, and appliances, and may reduce the 
average home’s energy use by 33 percent or more. San Mateo residents have already completed a limited 
number of retrofits, as discussed in the Existing and Planned Accomplishments section, through programs such 
as Energy Upgrade California.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
6,160
7,020
6,790
Recommended actions:
•
Establish a time of sale residential energy conservation program that requires an energy audit by a 
certified energy professional. Audits would be disclosed to the buyer.
•
Educate homeowners, real estate agents, rental property owners, and tenants about the benefits of 
residential energy retrofits, the availability of financing options, and how to participate.
•
Provide energy retrofit information to project applicants seeking permits for renovation or expansion 
work on existing houses.
•
Host residential energy outreach events such as evening workshops and local learn-at-lunch sessions, 
provide energy retrofit information at community events, and distribute information on residential energy 
retrofits online and in public buildings.
•
Promote financing programs that allow homeowners, rental property owners, and tenants to 
incrementally pay for energy efficiency retrofits.
•
Provide funding to support energy efficiency education and low-cost retrofits for low-income households.
•
Offer low- or no-cost energy audits to rental property owners who agree to disclose a unit’s energy 
efficiency results to tenants.
•
Encourage property owners to participate in energy benchmarking efforts.
365 of 599

--- page 366 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
77
•
Work with tenant groups and property management companies to identify actions tenants can take 
within the bounds of their lease to improve energy efficiency.
•
Promote incentives such as direct subsidies and reduced fee permitting to rental property owners who 
make energy efficiency improvements to their units beyond any minimum actions required by the 
adopted energy code.
•
Encourage property owners to consider installing cool roofs when reroofing buildings.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills
Saves energy
Home energy audits can identify opportunities to reduce electricity and natural gas use through both retrofit activities and low- 
or no-cost behavioral changes.
Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (28533)
366 of 599

--- page 367 ---
CHAPTER 3
78
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
As with residential buildings, many of San Mateo’s nonresidential buildings have been constructed before the 
adoption of modern energy efficient building codes. Energy-efficient retrofits can help the City reduce GHG 
emissions and save businesses money. Retrofits to these structures can reduce energy use by approximately 35% 
to 45%. Property owners who are substantially remodeling their nonresidential buildings can also bring the 
structure up to current energy efficiency codes as part of the remodel, which can also significantly decrease the 
buildings’ electricity and natural gas use.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
3,800
8,860
13,380
Recommended actions: 
•
Develop policy requiring reporting of energy use (ENERGY STAR performance score) by commercial and 
multifamily buildings. Apply benchmarking ordinance to smaller commercial and multifamily buildings, 
below the minimum size threshold for mandatory benchmarking under AB 802 and require commercial 
buildings to receive an energy assessment every five to ten years depending on size.
•
Educate property owners and tenants about energy efficiency retrofit programs and financing options.
•
Work with property owners to offer green leases for tenants, allowing tenants to specify energy efficiency 
improvements to the space or to finance energy efficiency retrofits in exchange for reduced occupancy 
fees. Promote a green lease addendum template that can be used by nonresidential property owners to 
incorporate green lease language into future leases.
•
Support participation in demand response programs.
•
Offer low-cost energy audits for business or office parks, including identification of most cost-efficient 
savings for weatherization or appliance upgrades.
•
Offer reduced fee permitting to project applicants undergoing specifically defined energy retrofit 
measures, such as a retrofit to achieve Zero Net Energy in an existing building.
•
Promote the San Mateo County Green Business program to help encourage energy efficiency and 
sustainable actions in local businesses.
•
Encourage property owners to consider installing cool roofs when reroofing buildings.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills
Saves energy
367 of 599

--- page 368 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
79
The windows in this airport building have been retrofitted to electronically darken in bright sunlight, helping to keep the inside 
of the building cool. Advances such as this can be applied to San Mateo office buildings, reducing the energy use for air 
conditioning.
Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (54582)
368 of 599

--- page 369 ---
CHAPTER 3
80
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
EE 3: Residential tree planting
Shade trees provide several benefits, including reducing the urban heat island effect, reducing runoff during 
flood events, and providing habitat for wildlife. When properly placed, they can also help keep home interiors 
cool, reducing the need for homes to run their air conditioners or other cooling equipment. San Mateo can 
promote tree planting to help decrease home cooling demands.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 10
Recommended actions: 
•
Establish a City program to provide free or subsidized shade trees for buildings with eastern, western, or 
southern exposure to reduce energy use associated with cooling homes.
•
Partner with community organizations and applicable professional associations to support education and 
outreach on the benefits and best practices of strategic tree planting to provide shade and cooling. 
Develop guidance on the preferred tree types and the recommended approach to selecting locations for 
tree plantings that support energy conservation and efficiency.
Co-benefits:
Improves public health
Reduces utility bills
Saves energy
Street trees can help keep nearby buildings cool, reducing the need for air conditioning during hot days.
Photo by PlaceWorks
369 of 599

--- page 370 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
81
Municipal Energy Efficiency and Electrification (ME)
The City of San Mateo strives to serve as an example of efficiency and to embody the commitment to reducing 
emissions citywide. Measures and actions under this goal save energy and reduce utility bills, which preserves 
valuable City resources and provides green building case studies for other developments in the community. 
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
The California Energy Commission is considering a goal of having all new nonresidential buildings be zero net 
energy by 2030. The City can work toward this goal by constructing new municipal facilities to be more energy 
efficient than State or local regulations require, including achieving zero net energy in advance of the State’s 
target.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Recommended actions:
•
Seek grant funding or low- or no-interest loans to implement energy saving efforts and renewable energy 
systems at municipal facilities at time of construction or substantial renovation.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Reduces utility bills
Saves energy
370 of 599

--- page 371 ---
CHAPTER 3
82
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
While San Mateo has conducted significant retrofits to existing municipal properties, additional opportunities for 
reducing energy use exist at City-owned facilities. The Sustainable Solutions Turnkey (SST) program has identified 
multiple HVAC and lighting retrofits at several City properties, including the Police Department, City Hall, multiple 
fire stations, and many others. This measure goes beyond the SST program (which is already accounted for as a 
planned activity) and looks at opportunities for retrofits at additional facilities or for additional retrofits not 
covered as part of other programs. 
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
10
30
40
Recommended actions:
•
Implement energy efficiency upgrades (including lighting and HVAC systems) at municipal buildings as 
needed.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills 
Saves energy
Although many City buildings have already been retrofitted, there are always opportunities to take advantage of new energy-
saving technologies and practices. These municipal retrofits help reduce the amount of public money spent on utility bills, and 
also allow the City to pilot new ways to reduce energy use.
Photo by City of San Mateo
371 of 599

--- page 372 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
83
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings 
Constructing new buildings or renovating existing ones to receive most or all their energy from electricity, as 
opposed to a mix of electricity and natural gas, has significant GHG savings. As the City encourages private 
property owners to construct mostly -electric or all-electric buildings, it can set an example by constructing its 
new buildings and renovating existing spaces to use electricity only. If these all-electric buildings also have 
renewable energy and battery storage systems, they can also be protected against power grid failures and 
intentional shutoffs.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
130
200
270
Recommended actions:
•
As feasible, design and build all-electric municipal buildings and facilities, including electric heating, 
cooling, and water heating.
•
Evaluate existing buildings and facilities to identify opportunities for retrofitting them to be all-electric, 
including electric heating, cooling, and water heating. 
•
During the development and construction of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, also 
consider all-electric technology including electric heating, cooling, and water heating.
•
Explore the feasibility of establishing microgrids at new or existing municipal facilities to capture the 
multiple benefits of microgrids, including reliability, clean energy, and cost savings.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Reduces utility bills 
372 of 599

--- page 373 ---
CHAPTER 3
84
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Clean Transportation Fuels (CF)
The promotion of clean transportation fuels, such as electricity or hydrogen, can ease a transition away from 
reliance on vehicles fueled by gasoline or diesel fuel. Providing increased support for vehicles that use these 
clean transportation fuels through public and private infrastructure makes it easier for residents who want to 
purchase one of these vehicles. 
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
Widespread availability of electric vehicle (EV) charging stations is critical to ensuring that EV drivers can quickly 
and easily charge up their vehicles. This helps reduce both real and perceived barriers to EV adoption, increasing 
the rate of EV ownership in the community. A large number of appropriately located EV charging stations can 
also encourage EV drivers from other communities to stop in San Mateo, which can provide economic 
opportunities. The City can ensure that EV drivers are not challenged to find a charging station at both public 
and private facilities.  . With the passage of the Advanced Clean Trucks rule in 2020, the Advanced Clean Cars II 
rule in 2022 and the Advanced Clean Fleets rule in 2023, state regulations require all sales of new light-duty 
vehicles to be zero-emission by 2035 and sales of new medium-duty and heavy-duty vehicles to be zero-emission 
by 2036. 
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
24,420
49,390
69,780
Recommended actions:
•
For each three-year code cycle, update reach codes to exceed the state-mandated minimum percentage 
of EV parking spaces designed to accommodate the future installation of electric vehicle supply 
equipment in new residential and commercial development, including the installation of supply 
equipment for heavy-duty EVs at appropriate commercial development.
•
Promote incentives to encourage the expansion of EV charging infrastructure in existing public and 
private properties, including parking structures, hotels and motels, multi-unit dwellings, and workplaces.
•
Partner with other agencies to incentivize property owners to install EV charging stations for light-duty 
and heavy-duty vehicles as appropriate.
•
Install additional public EV charging stations in desirable, high-volume, and prominent City-owned 
locations.
•
Encourage the expansion of appropriate light-duty and heavy-duty EV charging infrastructure in existing 
buildings.
•
Encourage pairing EV charging infrastructure with battery storage systems.
•
Explore options to reduce or eliminate permit fees for the installation of EV charging infrastructure.
373 of 599

--- page 374 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
85
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Dedicated areas for electric vehicle charging at residential complexes and businesses help encourage EV adoption, reducing GHG 
emissions from transportation.
Photo by Dennis Schroeder/NREL (26765) 
374 of 599

--- page 375 ---
CHAPTER 3
86
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
EVs, including plug-in hybrids (PHEVs) are becoming increasingly widespread and cost-effective to California 
residents. San Mateo can improve the adoption of EVs among City residents by promoting these vehicles through 
media and in-person events. The City can encourage property owners who are not required to install EV chargers 
to do so and can publicize the availability of incentives.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
4,910
8,030
12,360
Recommended actions: 
•
Provide information about the benefits of EVs and PHEVs through the City’s electronic media systems 
and at public events, including creating opportunities for public EV/PHEV test drives. 
•
Conduct educational outreach to homeowners, commercial property owners, and developers about the 
benefits of EV charging stations.
•
Identify and distribute resources to assist community members seeking to install an EV charging station 
on their properties.
•
Work with local and regional partners to explore providing additional incentives to community members 
who purchase an EV or PHEV.
•
Evaluate opportunities to regulate or incentivize transportation network companies (TNCs) to increase 
adoption of electric vehicles as regulatory conditions allow.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Promotes equity
375 of 599

--- page 376 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
87
CF 3: Clean City fleet
San Mateo can further demonstrate its leadership on GHG reduction by increasing the number of vehicles in the 
municipal fleet that use clean transportation fuels. The City has already purchased vehicles that run off 
biomethane, a substitute for compressed natural gas (CNG) generated from waste products at the San Mateo 
Wastewater Treatment Plant. As EVs become more widely available, the City has more opportunities to replace 
its gasoline and diesel-fueled cars and trucks.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
130
200
270
Recommended actions:
•
Purchase EVs or PHEVs as replacements for gasoline, diesel, or conventional hybrid City fleet vehicles that 
have not been converted to compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles, as available and cost-effective.
•
Update the Vehicle and Fleet Equipment policy and explore an “Electric Vehicle First” procurement policy.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Methane is produced as a by-product of treating the community’s wastewater. The City collects this methane and processes it to 
produce a natural gas substitute called biomethane, which is used to fuel municipal vehicles. The City can expand its use of 
biomethane, as well as other clean fuels, to operate its fleet.
Photo by City of San Mateo 
376 of 599

--- page 377 ---
CHAPTER 3
88
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
Beyond electricity and biomethane, other clean vehicle fuels are available, such as hydrogen and biofuels from 
sustainable sources. Although these fuels are available in limited places and quantities, they are likely to become 
more widespread in coming years as California seeks to substantially cut GHG emissions from transportation. San 
Mateo can encourage adoption of these additional clean vehicle fuels by making it easier for fueling stations that 
supply them to locate in the community.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
4,210
16,920
26,360
Recommended actions:
•
Support efforts to build fueling stations in San Mateo for other clean fuels, including hydrogen and 
sustainably-sourced biofuels, as supported by market conditions.
•
Explore ways to reduce vehicle idling in selected areas with large numbers of vehicle drop-offs and pick-
ups, such as schools.
•
Explore signal light optimization to reduce vehicle idling at traffic signals.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
377 of 599

--- page 378 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
89
Sustainable Transportation (ST)
Increasing the number of transportation modes available to San Mateo residents creates a healthier community, 
promotes equity, and reduces emissions. By providing individuals with a range of safe, reliable options to get to 
work, school, shopping, and other important destinations that are more sustainable than personal vehicles, the 
City can ensure that other modes of transportation are a feasible and effective alternative. This reduces 
dependence on personal vehicles in San Mateo, improving mobility options for all community members. 
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
Bicycles currently make up an estimated 1.40.9 percent% of San Mateo trips, using the approximately 6257 miles 
of dedicated bike trails and lanes within the community. Efforts to increase this are currently under way, with the 
ongoing implementation of the Bicycle Master Plan, which was adopted in 2011 and updated in 2020is currently 
being updated. These efforts include dedicated bicycle parking, new bike lanes, and improvements to existing 
bicycle infrastructure, along with educational and outreach efforts. Such efforts are supported by the 2015 
Sustainable Streets Plan, which includes standards for complete streets, and the 2019 Green Infrastructure Plan, 
which supports beneficial landscaping and other green infrastructure components that can make bicycling a 
more safe and pleasant experience. 
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
80
170
180
Recommended actions:
•
Host bicycle safety and awareness efforts for bicyclists, pedestrians, and drivers.
•
Support bike-to-school commutes through the Safe Routes to School program.
•
Install bike racks and long-term bike storage lockers in the public right-of-way and at City facilities and 
transit facilities.
•
Secure funding for design and construction of the infrastructure improvements identified in the updated 
Bicycle Master Plan (adoption anticipated in Spring 2020).
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
378 of 599

--- page 379 ---
CHAPTER 3
90
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
The San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan, adopted in 2012, seeks to 
create a pedestrian-friendly environment throughout the 
community to encourage walking and contribute to the 
community’s ambitious 2020 mode share target. By focusing new 
development in existing areas of higher density rather than low-
density residential areas, San Mateo can support increased 
pedestrian activity by locating homes within walking distance of 
key facilities such as shops, offices, and schools. Such efforts are 
supported by the Sustainable Streets Plan and the Green 
Infrastructure Plan which includes standards for complete streets 
and pedestrian-friendly landscaping improvements such as low-
impact development.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
110
120
130
Recommended actions:
•
Improve pedestrian safety through education and outreach efforts.
•
Support walk-to-school efforts through the Safe Routes to School program.
•
Secure funding for design and construction of the infrastructure improvements identified in the adopted 
Pedestrian Master Plan and Green Infrastructure Plan.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Pedestrian-friendly areas, such as Downtown San
Mateo, encourage people to walk rather than drive.
Photo by City of San Mateo
379 of 599

--- page 380 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
91
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
Micromobility refers to the use of electric scooters, uni-skates, etc. to travel short distances. It is a growing trend 
for individuals to own their own personal micromobility devices to connect to transit and job centers. Shared 
mobility options, such as a bike share program, allow community members an easy way to make shorter trips 
without owning their own devices. People who do not have access to a bike, scooter, or other mobility device of 
their own can rent one from various private shared mobility operators. In 2019, San Mateo adopted a Shared 
Mobility Permit Program, establishing regulations that would allow these companies to begin operating in the 
community. Providing shared mobility devices helps make more sustainable transportation modes available to 
more people while ensuring that shared mobility companies operate in a safe and responsible manner.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Recommended actions:
•
Identify operators for a shared mobility program to provide first- and last-mile connections for residents 
and commuters.
•
Work closely with shared mobility operator(s) to monitor program and encourage ridership.
•
Support infrastructure improvements that encourage the use of personal micromobility devices in 
alignment with the updated Bicycle Master Plan (adoption anticipated in Spring 2020).
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
380 of 599

--- page 381 ---
CHAPTER 3
92
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ST 4: Public transit service
Multiple public transit providers operate in San Mateo, including 
the county-wide SamTrans bus network, the Caltrain commuter 
rail line between San Francisco and San Jose/Gilroy, and AC 
Transit’s bus connections to Hayward and Castro Valley. In 
partnership with these regional service providers, San Mateo can 
support efforts to increase the frequency and speed of transit 
service, improve the quality of public transit infrastructure, and 
support additional service as needed. Educational and incentive 
programs can also encourage people to increasingly use public 
transit, helping to get cars off the road and reducing congestion 
while simultaneously decreasing GHG emissions.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
3,610
5,660
6,910
Recommended actions:
•
Support the development of new rapid bus transit routes.
•
Work with transit providers to improve the safety and comfort at transit stops.
•
Work with Caltrain to improve the frequency of Caltrain services, particularly to the Hayward Park station.
•
In partnership with transit providers, explore the feasibility of transit priority signals and other 
infrastructure improvements to speed up transit service.
•
Increase ridership for public transit by enhancing pedestrian and bicycle access to high-quality transit and 
encourage incentive programs to decrease reliance on single-occupancy vehicles.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Promotes equity
Improvements to San Mateo’s public transit service
help reduce congestion as well as community GHG 
emissions.
Photo by PlaceWorks
381 of 599

--- page 382 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
93
ST 5: Commuter programs
San Mateo’s efforts to encourage walking, bicycling, and public transit use can work in concert with other transit 
services, such as private shuttles and vanpools, to reduce vehicle trips associated with employee commutes. 
Existing businesses can encourage employees to adopt more sustainable commute options, including increased 
use of telecommuting, to reduce GHG emissions and congestion in the community. San Mateo’s existing 
Transportation Demand Management program can offer a model for how to reduce commute-related trips for 
existing businesses.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
70
160
Recommended actions:
•
Conduct an outreach campaign to San Mateo residents and employees about available shuttle and 
vanpool options to support increased use of these existing programs.
•
Work with regional partners and employers to offer micro-transit services to provide first-mile and last-
mile connections with key job and housing centers.
•
Provide outreach for carpool incentive programs to San Mateo residents and employees.
•
Encourage existing employers to participate in Transportation Demand Management efforts.
•
Support efforts by employers to provide telecommuting as a viable option for appropriate employees.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Promotes equity
382 of 599

--- page 383 ---
CHAPTER 3
94
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) is a suite of strategies intended to reduce the amount of single-
occupancy vehicle trips generated and vehicle miles traveled, particularly during peak commute times. TDM can 
include increased use of public transit, non-motorized transportation, carpools and ridesharing, and 
telecommuting, among many others. In San Mateo, new developments in the Hillsdale and Hayward Park transit-
oriented development areas are required to reduce the number of trips they generate. The City is looking to 
establish similar requirements for significant new developments in the downtown area and can also encourage 
participation in TDM programs for developments in other parts of the communities. Developments implementing 
TDM measures generally have the freedom to choose the strategies that suit their needs.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
2,010
7,950
13,410
Recommended actions: 
•
Require new developments of at least six multi-family units and/or 10,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space to implement a suite of TDM strategies to comply with the appropriate trip reduction target 
identified in applicable area plans.
•
Require developments of at least 20 multi-family units and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential space 
undergoing additions or alterations (as defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.06.012) to 
implement TDM strategies consistent with the targets in relevant area plans.
•
Educate developers working on projects in San Mateo not located in a TDM area about ways to reduce 
vehicle miles traveled and the resultant benefits.
•
Publicize developments and businesses with successful TDM programs.
•
Work with regional partners to fund successful TDM strategies for existing developments that can be 
implemented with little or no cost to property owners.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
Promotes equity
383 of 599

--- page 384 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
95
ST 7: Transit-oriented developments
Transit-oriented developments (TODs) are development projects located in areas close to high-quality transit 
services, such as commuter rail stations or bus stops with rapid and frequent service, and are designed to 
encourage community members living and working in these projects to use public transit as an alternative to 
driving. Many TODs in San Mateo are in areas already covered by TDM requirements that also support reduced 
vehicle use. The City can also encourage TODs in other parts of the community, further decreasing congestion 
on local roads and highways.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
10,200
18,920
23,700
 Recommended actions:
•
Increase transit-oriented developments along El Camino Real, within one-half mile of Caltrain stations, 
and in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development and Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
Improves public health
Transit-oriented developments encourage community members to use public transit for many of their trips.
Photo by City of San Mateo
384 of 599

--- page 385 ---
CHAPTER 3
96
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Solid Waste (SW)
Efforts to divert waste away from landfills not only reduce emissions, but also provide residents with an 
opportunity to focus on comprehensive sustainability and exercising awareness of individual impact on the 
environment, including minimizing waste generation and encouraging source reduction. These measures build 
on the City of San Mateo’s active leadership to date reducing waste through innovative programs. 
SW 1: Composting program
Decomposing landfill waste emits methane, which is a potent GHG. Diverting compostable materials from 
traditional waste streams may reduce these emissions. San Mateo and a number of other surrounding 
communities instituted a curbside composting program in 2011 in conjunction with the local waste hauler. This 
voluntary program allows residents and businesses to deposit food scraps into a green bin to be composted and 
turned into fertilizer. Previously, this material would have gone to the landfill, producing GHGs as it decomposed. 
Virtually all of San Mateo’s single-family households currently participate in the program, along with some multi-
family households and businesses. Increasing the participation rate of this program can decrease GHG emissions 
and help educate residents about waste generation.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
1,030
1,710
1,850
Recommended actions:
•
Provide educational outreach materials to multifamily residents about urging HOA/property managers to 
support composting programs. 
•
Work with Recology San Mateo County to include information about adding composting services in 
monthly garbage and recycling bills to existing BizSMART customers. 
•
Work with food service facilities to understand barriers to using existing composting programs. Use this 
clearer perception of roadblocks to mitigate concerns and target incentives more specifically at high 
food-waste facilities. 
•
Work with multifamily and commercial property owners to minimize any potential health or cleanliness 
impacts associated with compost collection bins.
•
Explore alternative off-site collection or sorting methods to capture compostable materials from 
multifamily units.
•
Continue to provide a diversion discount to participating commercial and multifamily users to properly 
incentivize and fully use compost services.
385 of 599

--- page 386 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
97
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Food waste and other organics is one of the most common materials in California’s trash. Composting programs help keep this 
waste out of landfills, reducing GHG emissions and providing useful, nutrient-rich soil as a co-benefit.
Photo by U.S. EPA
386 of 599

--- page 387 ---
CHAPTER 3
98
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
Beyond food waste and other organics, San Mateo residents can recycle many other types of materials. However, 
if materials are not placed in the correct bin, they may be accidentally landfilled, leading to increased GHG 
emissions. Proper sorting and other educational efforts can ensure that recyclable materials end up where they 
are supposed to. The City’s waste hauler may also be able to accept additional types of materials for recycling at 
a future time, depending on market conditions.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
6,070
7,730
8,820
Recommended actions:
•
Allow expanded recycling programs to accommodate additional material types as economic conditions 
allow.
•
Improve educational efforts around proper waste sorting.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
387 of 599

--- page 388 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
99
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
While it is important to sort waste properly and use recyclable/compostable products whenever possible, it is 
also helpful for community members to minimize the amount of materials that they throw away at all, regardless 
of the bin it ends up in. These efforts to decrease the overall amount of waste produced in the community not 
only decreases GHG emissions but can help keep harmful materials out of the environment and provide an 
opportunity for increased community education.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
2,080
4,050
5,590
Recommended actions:
•
Work with partners to establish a source reduction program.
•
Work with partners to establish a materials reuse program.
•
Explore a ban on specific types of single-use or disposable plastics.
•
Work with waste haulers and the South Bayside Waste Management Authority to minimize recycling 
contamination.
•
Continue to promote the Team Up to Clean Up program.
•
Encourage local restaurants to partner with food rescue organizations to divert food that would otherwise 
be thrown away to non-profit organizations for distribution to those in need.
Co-benefit:
Conserves resources
Enhances local economy
388 of 599

--- page 389 ---
CHAPTER 3
100
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Water and Wastewater (WW)
Increasing the efficiency of water usage reduces emissions and helps conserve valuable resources, saving money 
for the City and its residents, reducing dependence on outside resources, and increasing resilience to water 
shortages. 
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
Older buildings often have opportunities to improve water efficiency by replacing old fixtures (sinks, 
showerheads, toilets, etc.). Especially in periods of drought, optimizing indoor water efficiency may greatly reduce 
GHG emissions from conveyance and treatment of water. New buildings are required to use water-efficient 
fixtures under State law. These buildings can incorporate fixtures that exceed California standards to achieve 
additional water use reductions.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
170
300
360
Recommended actions: 
•
Provide educational materials and outreach to encourage indoor water conservation.
•
Work with Cal Water and Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) to promote rebate 
offerings for high efficiency toilets, washing machines, rain barrels, and other water-conserving 
appliances.
•
Work with Cal Water to offer low-cost or free water audits to businesses and homeowners. Explore ways 
to encourage installation of greywater systems in existing buildings, especially as part of significant 
retrofits.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Reduces utility bills
389 of 599

--- page 390 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
101
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
Treating and conveying water requires large amounts of energy. Minimizing the amount of water used onfor 
nonessential applications, such as landscaping and turf grass, helps reduce GHG expenditures and increases 
resiliency in periods of drought.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
10
Less than 10
Recommended actions: 
•
Provide educational materials to the community about drought-tolerant landscaping. 
•
Host educational workshops on drought-tolerant and native landscaping
•
Partner with Cal Water and/or BAWSCA to host a trade-in program for inefficient sprinklers for more 
efficient drip irrigation systems.
•
Retrofit City-owned landscapes to increase the amount of drought-resistant and/or native plant 
landscaping.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Reduces utility bills
Water-efficient landscaping is an increasingly common choice throughout San Mateo to reduce water use and improve resilience 
to drought conditions.
Photos by City of San Mateo
390 of 599

--- page 391 ---
CHAPTER 3
102
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
The California Building Standards Code already requires new buildings to be highly water efficient. The City can 
encourage new buildings to go beyond these requirements to meet the voluntary standards in the California 
Green Building Code, improving community-wide water efficiency. San Mateo can also promote the availability 
of greywater systems, allowing water to be reused in a safe and hygienic way to further improve water efficiency.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
10
20
Recommended actions:
•
Adopt a reach code to require new developments to meet the voluntary indoor and outdoor water 
efficiency standards in the California Green Building Standards Code.
•
Encourage developers to install greywater systems in new buildings at time of construction.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
391 of 599

--- page 392 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
103
Off-Road Equipment (OR)
Shifting to alternative fuel equipment across the community  and promotes healthier air for all residents due to 
the reduction in gasoline or diesel fumes. This is especially important for sensitive populations such as children, 
the elderly, and individuals with chronic respiratory disease. 
OR 1: Clean fuel lawn and garden equipment
Most lawn and garden equipment, such as lawn mowers, leaf blowers, chippers, etc., are fueled by gasoline or 
diesel. Many manufacturers produce hybrid and electric models, which use less fuel compared to a conventional 
model (or none at all). These models produce less pollution and may also be quieter to operate than gasoline or 
diesel equipment.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
3,660
7,130200
9,8901,140
Recommended actions:
•
Buy hybrid and alternative fuel models when purchasing new City-owned landscaping equipment, as 
feasible.
•
Conduct education campaigns and outreach events to property owners and landscaping companies 
about the availability of hybrid and alternative fuel landscaping equipment, including electric equipment, 
and available incentives such as the BAAQMD Lawn Mower Exchange.
Co-benefits:
Conserves resources
Improves public health
392 of 599

--- page 393 ---
CHAPTER 3
104
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Summary of Total GHG Emissions
Collectively, the measures in this chapter achieve substantial GHG reductions for the years 20202030, 20302040, 
and 20502045. Tables 137  and 18 shows the reductions achieved by topic, and Figures 8 and 9 shows these 
reductions relative to San Mateo’s community-wide emissions.
Table 17:Table 13: Absolute GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e)
2030
2040
2045
Building electrification
-123,280
-223,060
-268,510
Renewable energy
-290
-420
0
Energy efficiency
-9,960
-15,880
-20,170
Municipal energy efficiency and electrification
-140
-230
-310
Clean fuels
-33,670
-74,540
-108,770
Sustainable transportation
-16,010
-32,890
-44,490
Solid waste
-9,180
-13,490
-16,260
Water and wastewater
-170
-320
-380
Off-road equipment
-3,660
-7,130
-9,890
Total 
-196,360
-367,960
-468,780
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
Table 18: Per-Capita GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2030-2045 (MTCO2e Per-Capita)
2020
2030
2050
Building electrification
-0.01
-0.15
-0.65
Renewable energy
-<0.01
0.01
-0
Energy efficiency
-0.01
-0.13
-0.24
Municipal energy efficiency and electrification
-0
-<0.01
-<0.01
Clean fuels
-0.03
-0.41
-0.67
Sustainable transportation
-0.01
-0.11
-0.29
Solid waste
-0.02
-0.16
-0.20
Water and wastewater
-<0.01
-<0.01
-<0.01
Off-road equipment
-<0.01
-<0.01
-0.01
Total 
-0.10
-0.97
-2.06
 Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
393 of 599

--- page 394 ---
STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE THE TARGET
AprilJuly  20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
105
igure 7:Figure 8: San Mateo Absolute GHG Emissions with Reduction Measures, 20202030-2050 2045 (MTCO2e)
 San 
Mateo 
Per-Capita 
GHG 
Emissions 
with 
Reduction 
Measures, 
2020-2050 
(MTCO2e Per-Capita)In total, this CAP is projected to reduce San Mateo’s GHG emissions to 311,990 501,110 
MTCO2e (45 percent below 1990 levels) (4.6 MTCO2e per-capita) by 20302020,  162,530 358,610 MTCO2e (2.9 
MTCO2e per-capita) by 2040 2030(71 percent below 1990 levels), and 80,550 173,080 MTCO2e (86 percent below 
1990 levels) (1.2 MTCO2e per-capita) by 204550. These reductions allow San Mateo to meet its GHG reduction 
targets of 40 percent below 1990 levels 15% below 2005 levels (339,880 561,510 MTCO2e) by 20302020, 4.3 
MTCO2e per-capita by 2030, and 85 percent below 1990 levels (84,970 MTCO2e) 1.2 MTCO2e per-capita by 
20502045.
It is likely that there will be new policies and regulations, technologies, personal and economic behaviors and 
preferences, and other factors that emerge in coming years. These factors cannot be accurately forecasted in this 
CAP, but they will likely be able to reduce GHG emissions beyond the level identified here. Future updates to the 
CAP will be able to better assess the GHG emission reductions from these factors and include them as part of 
San Mateo’s GHG reduction strategy as appropriate. Future revisions to the CAP may include more stringent GHG 
reduction targets as they are feasible and appropriate.
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
2030
2040
2050
Forecasted emissions
Existing and planned efforts
CAP measures
394 of 599

--- page 395 ---
CHAPTER 3
106
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Technologies such as autonomous vehicles have the potential to significantly affect future GHG emissions, but the full effect of 
this and other emerging technologies cannot be accurately forecasted at this time.Photo by PlaceWorks
395 of 599

--- page 396 ---
Chapter 4
Implementation
IMPLEMENTING THE CLIMATE ACTION PLAN
To ensure the success of the 2020 CAP, the City of San Mateo will integrate the goals and strategies of this plan 
into other local and regional plans, and implement the programs and activities identified herein. As the City 
moves forward with updating other planning documents such as the General Plan, the San Mateo Municipal 
Code, or specific plans, staff will ensure that these documents support and are consistent with the CAP.
Implementing the CAP will require City leadership to execute these measures and report progress. This plan 
identifies a work plan that includes responsible departments, time frames, and relative costs associated with each 
measure. Staff will monitor progress using an implementation and monitoring tool on an annual basis and will 
provide an annual update to City decision-makers. The measures in this CAP are accompanied by a list of 
recommended actions, selected by City staff, members of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and 
members of the public. The list of recommended actions represents suggested means of achieving the measure;, 
but however, these actions are not a prescriptive path to implementation. Furthermore, not all of the listed actions 
may be necessary for the City to achieve its target. Due to ongoing changes in technology and regulations, and 
the emergence of new best practices and funding opportunities, this approach enables the City to adapt and 
leverage new opportunities or partnerships without being constrained by a specific implementation pathway. 
The City’s sustainability program manager will serve as an ongoing advisor for CAP implementation. As part of 
annual progress reports, the sustainability program manager and City staff will evaluate the effectiveness of each 
measure to ensure that anticipated emissions reductions are occurring. If reductions do not occur as expected, 
the City can modify and add additional measures to the CAP to ensure the reduction target is achieved.
396 of 599

--- page 397 ---
CHAPTER 4
108
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
The following programs are designed to guide San Mateo in successfully implementing the CAP.
IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES
Implementation Measure 1: Monitor and report progress toward Climate Action Plan target 
achievement on an annual basis. 
Actions to support Implementation Measure 1:
•
Assign responsibility for facilitating and supporting CAP implementation to the City’s sustainability 
program manager.
•
Identify key staff from each department responsible for supporting the sustainability program manager 
with information and updates for annual reporting and monitoring.
•
Continue to involve the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission or other advisory bodies in 
reviewing and recommending CAP action items. 
•
Prepare an annual progress report on implementation of the recommended GHG reduction measures for 
review and consideration by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council. When 
information is available, provide updates on estimated GHG emissions reductions and current GHG 
emissions levels. 
•
Use the CAP implementation and monitoring tool to track GHG benefits from CAP implementation and 
identify progress toward the CAP reduction target. 
Implementation Measure 2: Continue collaborative partnerships with agencies and community 
groups that support Climate Action Plan implementation.
Action to support Implementation Measure 2:
•
Continue formal membership and participate in local and regional organizations that provide tools and 
support for energy efficiency, energy conservation, GHG emissions reductions, adaptation, public 
information, and implementation of this Plan. 
•
Participate as a member of the Regionally Integrated Climate Action Planning Suite (RICAPS) climate 
action planning effort to monitor available resources, programs, and funding to leverage with City CAP 
efforts. 
•
At the direction of the City Council, commit to formal membership through joint powers authorities or 
other partnerships to implement high priority measures from the CAP. 
•
Provide policy input to partner agencies (e.g., League of Cities) on policy barriers that need to be 
addressed at the state level.
397 of 599

--- page 398 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
April May 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
109
Implementation Measure 3: Secure necessary funding to implement the Climate Action Plan.
Actions to support Implementation Measure 3:
•
Identify funding sources and levels for reduction measures as part of annual reporting.
•
Include emissions reduction measures in department work plans, the capital improvement program, and 
other plans as appropriate.
•
Pursue local, regional, State, and federal grants to support implementation.
•
Explore dedicated funding sources for CAP implementation.
•
Explore opportunities to allocate a portion of revenues from revenue-generating measures to CAP 
allocation.
Implementation Measure 4: Continue to update the baseline emissions inventory and Climate 
Action Plan every five years.
Actions to support Implementation Measure 4:
•
Prepare a 2020 20212 emissions inventory no later than 20222024.
•
Update the CAP no later than 2025 to incorporate new technology, practices, and other options to further 
reduce emissions.
WORK PLAN 
The work plan in Table 149 contains information to support staff and community implementation of the 
measures to effectively integrate them into budgets, the capital improvement program, and other programs and 
projects. Information about the sources of data to monitor implementation of each measure is given in Appendix 
2. The measures of success included in Table 149 are defined as follows:
Code: The abbreviation that is used to refer to the measure in the CAP and all corresponding workbooks.
Measure: The language used to guide actions needed for reductions. 
GHG Reductions (MTCO2e): Amount of GHG emissions reduced by 2020, 2030, and 2050. 
City Staff Time: The estimated cost to the City (in staff hours) to complete implementation of the measure, 
ranked as follows:
•
Low (less than 80 hours)
•
Medium (80–500 hours)
•
High (more than 500 hours) 
398 of 599

--- page 399 ---
CHAPTER 4
110
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
Time Frame: The year by which a measure should be effective by year’s end. The exact status of a measure 
will vary based on its actions, and many measures will be ongoing through and beyond 2030. An effective 
measure is one that will be actively on track to achieve its targeted GHG emissions reductions, support 
adaptation to climate change effects, or achieve long-term resilience. For a measure to be effective, the 
necessary programs and efforts should be active, and any infrastructure or other capital improvements should 
be in place. The effective year is not the end year, as many of the measures are programs that are intended 
to remain in effect for the foreseeable future, and so they do not have end dates. Time frames for effectively 
setting up the measures are described as follows: 
•
Immediate (by 20240)
•
Near-Term (by 20253) 
•
Mid-Term (by 20275) 
•
Long-Term (by 2030) 
Lead Department: The lead City department tasked with implementing the measure. 
399 of 599

--- page 400 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
April May 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
111
Table 19:Table 14: CAP Implementation Work Plan
Measure
Measure
2030 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2040 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2045 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
BE 1
All-electric new construction
-21,070
-38,450
-47,250
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
BE 2
All-electric existing buildings
-102,210
-184,610
-221,260
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
RE 1
Peninsula Clean Energy
-160
-170
0
Low
Immediate 
City Manager’s 
Office
RE 2
Renewable energy systems for new and 
existing residences
-70
-160
0
Medium
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
RE 3
Renewable energy systems for new and 
existing nonresidential buildings
-60
-90
0
Medium
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 1
Residential energy efficiency retrofits
-6,160
-7,020
-6,790
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 2
Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-3,800
-8,860
-13,380
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 3
Residential tree planting
Less than -10
Less than -10
Less than -10
Low
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
400 of 599

--- page 401 ---
CHAPTER 4 
112
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
Measure
Measure
2030 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2040 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2045 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
ME 1
Energy efficiency for new municipal 
buildings
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Medium
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ME 2
Energy efficiency at existing municipal 
buildings
-10
-30
-40
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ME 3
All-electric municipal buildings 
-130
-200
-270
Medium
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
CF 1
Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-24,420
-49,390
-69,780
High
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
CF 2
Electric vehicle education and outreach
-4,910
-8,030
-12,360
High
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
CF 3
Clean City fleet
-130
-200
-270
Low
Near-term
Public Works
CF 4
Clean fuel
-4,210
-16,920
-26,360
Medium
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 1
Bicycle mode share
-80
-170
-180
Medium
Mid-term
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
401 of 599

--- page 402 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
April May 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
113
Measure
Measure
2030 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2040 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2045 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
ST 2
Pedestrian mode share
-110
-120
-130
Low
Near-term
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 3
Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Low
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ST 4
Public transit service
-3,610
-5,660
-6,910
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ST 5
Commuter programs
0
-70
-160
High
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 6
Transportation Demand Management
-2,010
-7,950
-13,410
Medium
Immediate
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 7
Transit-oriented development
-10,200
-18,920
-23,700
Low
Near-term
Community 
Development
SW 1
Composting program
-1,030
-1,710
-1,850
High
Immediate
Public Works
SW 2
Expanded recycling service
-6,070
-7,730
-8,820
High
Near-term
Public Works
SW 3
Waste awareness and source reduction
-2,080
-4,050
-5,590
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
402 of 599

--- page 403 ---
CHAPTER 4 
114
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
Measure
Measure
2030 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2040 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
2045 GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
WW 1
Water efficiency retrofits for existing 
buildings
-170
-300
-360
Medium
Mid-term
Public Works
WW 2
Water-efficient landscaping
Less than -10
Less than -10
Less than -10
Low
Near-term
Public Works
WW 3
Water efficiency in new construction
0
-10
-20
Medium
Mid-term
Community 
Development
OR 1
Alternative fuel lawn and garden 
equipment
-3,660
-7,130
-9,890
Medium
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
403 of 599

--- page 404 ---
Glossary
Activity: Any action that directly or indirectly results in GHG emissions. Examples include electricity use, vehicle 
use, and solid waste disposal. Activity data are a discrete measure of how much of an activity occurred in San 
Mateo in a certain year (e.g., how much electricity was used in 2015). The measurement unit of activity data varies 
depending on the activity.
Assembly Bill (AB) 32, California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006: Establishes a comprehensive 
program of regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve real, quantifiable, cost-effective reductions of 
greenhouse gases (GHG) for the State of California. AB 32 designates the California Air Resources Board as the 
responsible agency for monitoring and reducing statewide GHG emissions to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 
2020. 
Assembly Bill (AB) 1279, California Climate Crisis Act of 2022: Revises the GHG targets established in AB 32 
and declares the policy of the state both to achieve net- zero GHG emissions as soon as possible, but no later 
than 2045, and achieve and maintain net negative GHG emissions thereafter, and to ensure that by 2045, 
statewide human-caused GHG emissions are reduced to at least 85 percent below 1990 levels.
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG): The regional planning agency for the nine counties and 101 
incorporated cities in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
Baseline year: The year against which future changes are measured. Many communities in California use a 
baseline year of 2005 through 2008 for consistency with AB 32; the San Mateo inventory uses a baseline year of 
2005.
Building electrification: Replacing some or all of a building’s natural gas-powered appliances or machinery with 
models that run on electricity. Since electricity releases much fewer GHGs (and in some cases no GHGs at all), 
there is a significant GHG reduction benefit. Building electrification is also called “fuel switching”. 
404 of 599

--- page 405 ---
GLOSSARY 
116
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
California Air Resources Board (CARB): A division of the California Environmental Protection Agency charged 
with protecting public health, welfare, and ecological resources through the reduction of air pollutants. 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA): A State law requiring State and local agencies to regulate 
activities with consideration for environmental protection. If a proposed activity has the potential for a significant 
adverse environmental impact, an environmental impact report (EIR) must be prepared and certified as to its 
adequacy before action can be taken on the proposed project. General plans require the preparation of a 
program EIR.
California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen, Title 24 Part 11): The California Green Building 
Standards Code, commonly referred to as the CALGreen Code, is a statewide mandatory construction code that 
was developed and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission and the Department of Housing 
and Community Development. The CALGreen standards require new residential and commercial buildings to 
comply with mandatory measures under the topics of planning and design, energy efficiency, water efficiency 
and conservation, material conservation and resource efficiency, and environmental quality. CALGreen also 
provides voluntary tiers and measures that local governments may adopt that encourage or require additional 
measures in the five green building topics. 
Carbon dioxide (CO2): A colorless, odorless gas that occurs naturally in the earth’s atmosphere. Significant 
quantities are also emitted into the air by fossil fuel combustion. 
Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e): A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse 
gases based on their global warming potential (GWP). The carbon dioxide equivalent for a gas is derived by 
multiplying the tons of the gas by the associated GWP. 
Clean Car Fuel Standards (AB 1493, Pavley): Signed into law in 2002 and commonly referred to as Pavley 
standards. Requires carmakers to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from new passenger cars and light 
trucks beginning in 2011. More recent standardsAn updated set of standards, called the Advanced Clean Car 
Standards, took effect in 2016 and will requires further GHG reductions from new vehicles. A further set of 
standards, called the Advanced Clean Car II Standards, will take effect in 2026 and will lead to all new light-duty 
vehicles being zero-emission starting in 2035.
Climate Action Plan (CAP): Strategic plans that establish policies and programs for reducing (or mitigating) a 
community’s greenhouse gas emissions. 
Climate change: The term “climate change” is sometimes used to refer to all forms of climatic inconsistency, but 
because the earth’s climate is never static, the term is more properly used to imply a significant change from one 
climatic condition to another. 
405 of 599

--- page 406 ---
GLOSSARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
117
Co-benefit: An additional benefit occurring from the implementation of a greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction 
measure that is not directly related to reducing GHG emissions. 
Complete streets: Complete streets policies ensure that transportation planners and engineers consistently 
design and operate the entire roadway with all potential users in mind. This includes private vehicles, bicyclists, 
public transportation vehicles and riders, and pedestrians of all ages and abilities. 
Emissions factor: A number that describes the amount of greenhouse gases (GHG) released per unit of a certain 
activity (e.g., GHGs per unit of natural gas used). Factors are provided by utility companies, State agencies, and 
guidance documents.
Energy conservation: Reducing energy waste, such as turning off lights, heating, and motors when not needed.
Energy efficiency: Doing the same or more work with less energy, such as replacing incandescent light bulbs 
with compact fluorescent light bulbs or buying an Energy Star appliance to use less energy for the same or 
greater output.
Energy efficiency standards (Title 24 Part 6): California’s energy efficiency standards, also called the California 
Energy Code (Part 6 of Title 24, the California Building Standards Code), were first adopted in 1978 and 
established minimum energy efficiency standards for residential and nonresidential buildings. These standards 
are updated every few years by providing more stringent energy budgets for new buildings to reduce California’s 
energy consumption, eventually working toward a zero-net energy standard for new construction. 
Energy Star: A joint program of the US Environmental Protection Agency and the US Department of Energy to 
provide consumers with information and incentives to purchase the most energy efficient products available.
Environmental Impact Report (EIR): A report required by the California Environmental Quality Act that assesses 
all the environmental characteristics of an area and determines what effects or impacts will result if the area is 
altered or disturbed by a proposed action or project. See California Environmental Quality Act.
Global warming potential (GWP): An index used to translate the level of emissions of various gases into a 
common measure in order toto compare the relative potency of different gases without directly calculating the 
changes in atmospheric concentrations. Greenhouse gases are expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalent. 
Global warming potentials are expressed in terms relative to carbon dioxide, which has a global warming 
potential of 1.
Green building: Sustainable or “green” building is a holistic approach to design, construction, and demolition 
that minimizes the building’s impact on the environment, the occupants, and the community. See the California 
Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen) for green building regulations in California. 
406 of 599

--- page 407 ---
GLOSSARY 
118
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
Greenhouse gas/gases (GHG): Gases that cause heat to be trapped in the atmosphere, warming the earth. GHGs 
are necessary to keep the earth warm but increasing concentrations of these gases are implicated in global 
climate change. GHGs include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, 
sulfur hexafluoride, and nitrogen trifluoride. The majority of GHGs come from natural sources, although human 
activity is also a major contributor. 
Greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory: Provides estimates of the amount of GHGs emitted to and removed from 
the atmosphere by human activities. A city or county that conducts an inventory looks at both community 
emissions sources and emissions from government operations. A base year is chosen and used to gather all data 
from that year. Inventories include data collection from such things as vehicle miles traveled, energy usage from 
electricity and gas, and waste.
Greywater: Wastewater collected from showers, bathtubs, dishwashers, bathroom sinks, and clothes washing 
machines that is reused on-site for irrigation and other non-potable (i.e., non-drinkable) purposes. 
Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS): An executive order from former Governor Schwarzenegger, the LCFS 
established the goal of reducing the carbon intensity of fuels used for transportation and off-road vehicles in 
California by 10% by 2020. 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO): A federally funded transportation planning organization 
comprising representatives from local government agencies and transportation authorities. 
Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC): The MPO for the nine-county San Francisco Bay Area. It is 
responsible for securing and distributing funding for transportation planning and construction projects, working 
with local and regional public transit providers to improve the effectiveness of service, and encouraging 
development within existing urbanized areas to minimize the loss of agriculture and open space. It also operates 
the region’s seven state-owned toll bridges and the Clipper transit fare card.
Micromobility: A mode of transportation that uses lightweight, usually powered, devices, such as electric 
scooters, electric-assist bicycles, and electric skateboards.
Mixed-fuel building: A building that uses multiple sources of energy to operate applies and devices. In most of 
California, including San Mateo, this refers to buildings that use both electricity and natural gas.
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE): A community choice aggregation program run by the local governments of San 
Mateo County to provide electricity to San Mateo County community members. PCE purchases electricity on 
behalf of its customers and distributes it through existing power lines owned by PG&E. It is the default electricity 
supplier for San Mateo County. 
407 of 599

--- page 408 ---
GLOSSARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
119
Quantification: The process of determining the amount of greenhouse gas emissions reduced by each measure.
Recycled water: Wastewater from tubs, toilets, and sinks inside homes and offices that is cleaned through a 
treatment process, producing non-potable water that is safe for landscapes, raw vegetable crops, and agricultural 
crops.
Reduction measure: A goal, strategy, program, or set of actions that target and reduce a specific source of 
greenhouse gas emissions.
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP): A long-term blueprint of the region’s transportation systems. The RTP is 
a federally mandated comprehensive long-range regional planning document that identifies the region’s 
transportation needs, sets forth an action plan of projects, determines actions and programs to address the needs 
and issues, and documents the financial resources needed to implement the RTP. Plan Bay Area, the combined 
RTP and SCS for the nine-county San Francisco Bay Area, was last adopted in 2017.
Renewable energy: Energy from sources that regenerate and are less damaging to the environment, such as 
solar, wind, biomass, and small-scale hydroelectric power.
Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS): A regulation requiring utility companies in California to increase the 
production of renewable energy from solar, wind, or biomass, or geothermal sources. 
Sector: A category of activities responsible for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as transportation, water 
use, or energy use. Sectors may comprise multiple GHG sources and activities.
Senate Bill (SB) 97: Requires lead agencies to analyze greenhouse gas emissions and climate change impacts 
under the California Environmental Quality Act. 
Senate Bill (SB) 375: Directs the metropolitan planning organizations in California to create a sustainable 
communities strategy (SCS) as part of the regional transportation plan. The SCS will demonstrate how the region 
will achieve the 2020 and 2035 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for the region set by the California 
Air Resources Board. 
Senate Bill (SB) 1383: Requires businesses and residents to separate their organic waste from other waste 
streams for recycling or composting with a target for reducing organic waste disposal in landfills by 75 percent 
by 2025. Requires local jurisdictions to implement organic waste recycling programs to meet these goals.
Shared mobility: A means of transportation using shared devices, such as bicycles and scooters, that users rent 
for short periods of time.
408 of 599

--- page 409 ---
GLOSSARY 
120
City of San Mateo
October May 202319
Sustainability: Community use of natural resources in a way that does not jeopardize the ability of future 
generations to live and prosper.
Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS): The land use element of each metropolitan planning organization’s 
regional transportation plan as required by Senate Bill 375. The SCS will demonstrate how the region will achieve 
the 2020 and 2035 vehicle miles traveled and greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for the region set by 
the California Air Resources Board. Plan Bay Area, the combined RTP and SCS for the nine-county San Francisco 
Bay Area, was last adopted in 2017.
Sustainable development: Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability 
of future generations to meet their own needs. 
Transit-oriented development (TOD): A mixed-use residential or commercial area designed to maximize access 
to transit options. 
Transportation demand management (TDM): A voluntary or mandatory program developed by local agencies, 
large employers, or high traffic commercial services to limit the amount of congestion and pollution related to 
transportation demand. TDM plans may include incentives, regulations, and education about transportation 
alternatives. 
Transportation network company (TNC): A company whose service allows users to request an on-demand ride 
from drivers using their own personal vehicles to transport users. Lyft and Uber are the most prominent examples.
Vehicle miles traveled (VMT): A key measure of overall street and highway use. Reducing VMT is often a major 
objective in efforts to reduce vehicular congestion and achieve regional air quality goals.
Water conservation: Reducing water use, such as by turning off taps, shortening shower times, and reducing 
outdoor irrigation demand.
Water-efficient landscape: Native or low-water-using landscapes. Water-efficient landscapes are required by 
law in all cities and counties in California to conserve water. 
Water use efficiency: Replacing older technologies and practices in order to accomplish the same results with 
less water, for example, by replacing toilets with new high efficiency models and by installing “smart controllers” 
in irrigated areas.
Zero net energy: Generating as much energy as is used, over the course of a year. For example, a zero net energy 
building will generate as much energy on-site as it uses annually. 
409 of 599

--- page 410 ---
GLOSSARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
121
410 of 599

--- page 411 ---
Works Cited
This list is a general list of sources used to broadly inform preparation of the 2020 CAP. Appendix A lists the 
sources used to specifically quantify individual GHG reduction measures.
Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 2022. “California Environmental Quality Act:  Pre-release Version of 
Appendix C  Guidance for GHG Reduction Strategies.”
———Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 2022. “Justification Report: CEQA Thresholds for Evaluating the 
Significance of Climate Impacts From Land Use Projects and Plans.”
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission 
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”.
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2010. Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures. 
http://www.capcoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/CAPCOA-Quantification-Report-9-14-Final.pdf. 
California Air Resources Board. 2011. “Local Government Operations Protocol for Greenhouse Gas Assessments.”. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/localgov.htm.
———. 2022. “AB 32 Scoping Plan.”. https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/scopingplan/scopingplan.htm.
California Energy Commission. “Cal-Adapt.”. https://cal-adapt.org/.
California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, California Energy Commission, and California Natural 
Resources Agency. “California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment.”. http://www.climateassessment.ca.gov/. 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2015. 
San 
Mateo 
2015 
Climate 
Action 
Plan. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/65426/San-Mateo-CAP---Adopted?bidId=. 
411 of 599

--- page 412 ---
GLOSSARY
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
123
———. 2020, 2021, and 2022. “CAP Progress Updates.”. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-
Updates. 
County of San Mateo. 2019. “RICAPS Program.”. https://performance.smcgov.org/stories/s/RICAPS/xzkp-fn3v/.
ICLEI Local Governments for Sustainability USA. 2012. US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. http://www.icleiusa.org/tools/ghgprotocol/community-protocol.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2013. IPCC Fifth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2013: The 
Physical Science Basis. http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1/. 
There is no content on this page.
412 of 599

--- page 413 ---
413 of 599

--- page 414 ---
Appendix 1:
Technical Appendix: 
Methods and 
Assumptions
GHG REDUCTION MEASURE QUANTIFICATION
This appendix summarizes data sources, assumptions, and performance metrics used to calculate greenhouse 
gas emissions reductions for the City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan. The sources and metrics are organized 
by measure and rely on four primary types of data and research: (1) San Mateo’s GHG emissions inventory and 
forecast, (2) government agency tools and reports, (3) case studies in similar jurisdictions, and (4) scholarly 
research. 
Further, the quantification approaches are consistent with guidance provided by the Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District (BAAQMD) for development of a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy. The baseline GHG 
inventory and forecast serve as the foundation for the quantification of the City’s GHG reduction measures. 
Activity data from the inventory form the basis of measure quantification, including vehicle miles traveled (VMT), 
kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity or therms of natural gas consumed, and tons of waste disposed. Activity data 
were combined with the performance targets and indicators identified by the City and consultants. The activity 
data and performance targets and indicators were used throughout the quantification process to calculate the 
emissions reduction benefit of each measure. This approach ensures that San Mateo’s GHG emissions reductions 
are tied to the baseline and to future activities occurring within the City. 
414 of 599

--- page 415 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-2
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Emissions Factors
Table 1-1 lists the emissions factors used to quantify emissions reductions in the CAP. These emission factors 
reflect the GHG reductions from existing and planned accomplishments, as well as PCE, to the extent feasible. 
They do not reflect the average emission factors with full implementation of this CAP.
Table 1-1: Emissions Coefficients for CAP Measures
Source
2005
20172019
20202030
20302040
20502045
Source
MTCO2e per mile 
driven (with Pavley)
0.000464
0.0003800
00392
0.0003540
00312
0.0002740
00277
0.0002440
00269
EMFAC 20172021
MTCO2e per Caltrain 
passenger mile 
0.0043700
04371
0.0027780
02506
0.0027780
00629
0.0027780
00627
0.0027780
00626
Caltrain, US 
Community 
Protocol
MTCO2e per kWh 
(PCE)
-
0.0000640
00045
0.0000220
00000
0.0000000
00000
0.000000
PCE, US EPA
MTCO2e per kWh 
(PG&E)
0.000223
0.0001830
00002
0.0001830
00002
0.0001330
00001
0.000000
PG&E, US EPA
MTCO2e per kWh 
(direct access)
0.0003620
00057
0.0001910
00212
0.0001840
00152
0.0000951
32
0.000000
CEC, US EPA
MTCO2e per kWh 
(weighted 
community average)
0.0002240
00160
0.0000970
00054
0.0000370
00010
0.0000120
00006
0.000000
PCE, PG&E, CEC, 
US EPA
MTCO2e per therm
0.0053120
05292
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
US Community 
Protocol
MTCO2e per ton of 
waste
0.1928032
07521
0.2104212
53266
0.2104212
36134
0.2104212
36134
0. 
236134210
421
CARB Landfill 
Emissions Tool 
v1.3
These emissions coefficients were calculated as follows, using data from the GHG inventory and forecast: 
•
MTCO2e per mile driven: Divide the emissions from on-road transportation by the number of on-road 
vehicle miles traveled. 
415 of 599

--- page 416 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-3
•
MTCO2e per passenger mile: For Caltrain, divide the emissions from Caltrain activities related to San 
Mateo by the number of passenger miles attributed to San Mateo.
•
MTCO2e per kWh: Divide the sum of the emissions for residential and commercial electricity use by the 
sum of the kWh for these two sources, for each electricity provider. 
•
MTCO2e per therm: Divide the sum of the emissions from residential and commercial natural gas by the 
sum of the therms used by these two sources.
•
MTCO2e per ton of waste: Divide the sum of the emissions from landfilled waste and waste in place by 
the sum of the tons of waste in these sources. 
TECHNICAL DATA FOR EXISTING AND PLANNED LOCAL AND REGIONAL ACTIVITIES
Data sources, methods, and assumptions for the quantification of the existing and planned local and regional 
activities are provided below. Note that some existing and planned local activities may not have assumptions 
and/or performance metrics. The GHG reductions shown for existing and planned local and regional activities 
isare only in addition to any reductions achieved by existing or planned State efforts.
Peninsula Clean Energy
GHG Reduction
20202030
204030
20502045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
19,84020,000
28,73013,750
0
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity supplied by PCE (kWh)
470,663,20049
5,153,490
495,509,37048
7,569,650
496,143,95050
1,096,050
PCE electricity supplied to ECO 100 customers (kWh)
10,550,64027,6
14,500
10,550,64027,6
14,500
10,550,64027,6
14,500
416 of 599

--- page 417 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-4
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
GHG Method
For overall electricity supplied by PCE, the project team identified the current fraction of community electricity 
supplied by PCE and applied this ratio to future projections of electricity use. The team subtracted the amount 
of PCE-supplied electricity in 2018 2020 from this future projection to obtain the increase in PCE electricity 
supplies, then multiplied this value by an emissions factor that reflects PCE’s future energy procurement plans. 
For ECO 100, the project team identified how much electricity is served to ECO 100 and applied an emissions 
factor that reflects the community’s weighted average of electricity sources to determine the overall amount of 
averted emissions.
GHG Sources
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
202318. 
20197 
Power 
Content 
Label: 
Peninsula 
Clean 
Energy. 
https://www.energy.ca.gov/filebrowser/download/3244.https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/pcl/labels/2017_labels/P
CE_2017_PCL.pdf.
Peninsula Clean Energy. 2018. Board Correspondence, December 10, 2018: Update on PCE’s Marketing and 
Outreach Activities. https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/2018-12-20-PCE-
BOD-Agenda-Packet-FINAL.pdf.
Doubrovskaia, M.Totah, M, A. 20232018. Peninsula Clean Energy. Personal communication to A. Chow, City of 
San Mateo. November April 19.
417 of 599

--- page 418 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-5
Energy- efficiency retrofits
Activity and GHG Reductions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
716,330136,470
136,470716,330
136,470716,330
Natural gas savings (therms)
-8605,910
5,910-860
5,910-860
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
5030
30
30
GHG Method
The project team collected data on the savings from energy efficiency retrofits, as reported by the San Mateo 
County Energy Watch and BayREN. The team then multiplied these values by the appropriate emissions factor in 
order to calculate GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2021. 
Climate 
Action 
Plan 
Progress 
Report. 
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=4766&type=2
Londer, R. 2018. County of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. December 3.
Londer, R. 2018. County of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. December 5.
418 of 599

--- page 419 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-6
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Solar energy installation
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
3,592,6505,695,620
3,592,6505,695,620
3,592,6505,695,620
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
10020
10
0
GHG Method
The project team obtained data on the number and generation potential of new solar energy installations in San 
Mateo. The team then used a National Renewables Energy Laboratory tool to determine how much electricity 
can be produced in San Mateo, on average, per kilowatt of generation potential, and calculated the total 
electricity generated annually from these installations. The project team applied a weighted average community 
electricity emissions factor to this total to determine GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
California Solar Initiative. 2023. “California Distributed Generation Statistics.”. 
https://www.californiadgstats.ca.gov/downloads/
Chow, A. 2018. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. December 28. 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2022. 
Climate 
Action 
Plan 
Progress 
Report. 
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=6472&type=2
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.”. https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.
Kleinbaum, Kathy. n.d. City of San Mateo. Personal correspondence to Tammy Seale, PlaceWorks.
419 of 599

--- page 420 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-7
Electric vehicle adoption
GHG Assumptions
2020
2030
2050
Projected EV adoption rate by State
1.63%
3.92%
5.31%
GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
3,420
0
0
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Projected EV adoption rate (at current levels)
2.02%
2.02%
2.02%
Net increase in EV VMT
9,873,684
0
0
Net increase in electricity use (kWh)
-3,357,050
0
0
GHG Method
The project team reviewed current data for EV adoption in San Mateo and compared it to projections of EV 
adoption prepared by the State. For years where the current EV adoption rate exceeded the State projections, 
the team used inventory and forecast data to identify the additional VMT that would be driven by EVs. The team 
then looked at the amount of electricity needed to power these additional EVs. Next, the project team applied 
the appropriate emissions factor to the VMT projections and increased electricity use and took the net difference 
as the overall GHG savings.
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 202117. “EMFAC202117 Web Database”. https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/ 
https://www.arb.ca.gov/emfac/2017/.
420 of 599

--- page 421 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-8
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
California 
Department 
of 
Motor 
Vehicles. 
2018. 
Fuel 
Type 
by 
City 
as 
of 
1/1/2018. 
https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/wcm/connect/c24637c9-5faf-4fe2-9375-
9b5221a2ef4a/MotorVehicleFuelTypes_City.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=. 
US 
Environmental 
Protection 
Agency. 
n.d. 
“Interactive 
Version 
of 
the 
Electric 
Vehicle 
Label”. 
https://www.epa.gov/fueleconomy/interactive-version-electric-vehicle-label. 
Municipal energy- efficiency retrofits
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
01,831,170
1,708,5301,831,17
0
1,708,5301,831,17
0
Natural gas savings (therms)
022,870
10,91022,870
10,91022,870
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
1600
16060
16060
GHG Method
The project team reviewed the results of the energy efficiency analysis provided by PG&E, which identifies 
anticipated electricity and natural gas savings from implementing the SST retrofits. The team applied the 
appropriate electricity and natural gas emissions factor to determine the overall GHG reduction.
GHG Sources
Chow, A. 2019. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. November 6
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2021. 
Climate 
Action 
Plan 
Progress 
Report. 
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=4766&type=2
421 of 599

--- page 422 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-9
Public-access EV chargers
GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 10
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
2045
Net increase in EV VMT
28,200258,720
258,72028,200
258,72028,200
Net increase in electricity use (kWh)
87,9609,600
87,9609,600
87,9609,600
GHG Method
The project team collected information on the number of public EV chargers in San Mateo and used factors 
about the average charging use of public EV chargers to estimate how many VMT of EV use the public chargers 
in the community support annually. The project team then estimated the electricity use from these EV chargers. 
Next, the team applied the appropriate emissions factors to the VMT and electricity use figures and took the 
difference between the two as the net reduction in GHG emissions. 
GHG Sources
Chow, A. 2023. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, PlaceWorks. April 14.
ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability. n.d. Climate and Air Pollution Planning Assistant v 1.5.
US 
Environmental 
Protection 
Agency. 
n.d. 
“Interactive 
Version 
of 
the 
Electric 
Vehicle 
Label.”. 
https://www.epa.gov/fueleconomy/interactive-version-electric-vehicle-label. 
422 of 599

--- page 423 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-10
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Transportation Demand Management
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Transportation savings (VMT)
752,750725,620
753,390700,370
733,700687,710
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
270190
210170
180160
GHG Method
The project team obtained information from the San Mateo Rail Corridor Area Transportation Management 
Agency to identify the mandatory reductions in trip generation as a result of existing and under-construction 
developments subject to TDM provisions and combined this information with results from the inventory and 
forecast to estimate the decrease in VMT resulting from TDM. The project team applied the community-wide 
VMT emissions coefficient to this figure to determine the GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
Lim, L. 2019. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to A. Chow, City of San Mateo. January 3.
423 of 599

--- page 424 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-11
Composting
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Waste savings (tons)
4,090
4,090
4,090
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
1,800
1,800
1,800
GHG Method
The project team looked at the number of participating residences and nonresidential organizations participating 
in the community’s composting program. The team used results of a statewide waste characterization study to 
estimate the total amount of organic waste generated by the participants and combined this information with 
technical factors for waste decomposition by materials to identify the total reduction in GHG emissions. 
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting 
of 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventories 
version 
1.1. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo_protocol_v1_1_2010-05-03.pdf
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
2011. 
Landfill 
Emissions 
Tool 
version 
1.3. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 2015. 2014 Disposal-Facility-Based Characterization 
of Solid Waste in California. https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1546. 
Murray, R. 2018. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to A. Chow, City of San Mateo. November 15.
Caltrain shuttlesAdditional Bicycle Lanes
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
VMT savings
97,99047,740
111,57047,740
119,05047,740
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
3020
3010
3010
424 of 599

--- page 425 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-12
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Annual ridership increaseAdditional bicyclke 
lanes (miles)
3,9106.4
3,9106.4
3,9106.4
Average trip length (miles) 
13.9
13.9
13.9
GHG Method
The project team reviewed the Bicycle Master Plan reports showing the increase in shuttle ridershipbicycle lanes 
planned for 2020 along with the number of bicycle lanes that have been constructed since the 2019 inventory.  
from 2017 to 2018 and the average length of each trip. The team used this information and the proposed 
methodology from the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association to calculate the percentage decrease 
in VMT associated with an increase in bicycle lanestotal annual VMT reduction associated with the Caltrain 
shuttles and applied the VMT emissions factor for personal vehicles to determine the GHG reductions associated 
with this existing accomplishment.
GHG Sources
San Mateo County Economic Development Association. 2012. Labor Supply and Commute Patterns in San Mateo 
County. http://www.bayareaeconomy.org/files/pdf/BACEI_Labor_Mobility_110612.pdf.
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 2021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission 
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.”.  
Ford, J. 2019. Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance (commute.org). Personal communication to A. Chow, 
City of San Mateo. January 10.Chow, A. 2023. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to E. Krispi, 
PlaceWorks. April 14
U.S. Census Bureau. 2023. 2014 – 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates, B08006: Sex of Workers 
by Means of Transportation to Work [data table].
425 of 599

--- page 426 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-13
Caltrain electrification
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
Electricity use increase (kWh)
011,852,700
10,921,68011,852,
700
10,921,68011,852,
700
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
03,560
3,4504,200
3,8804,560
GHG Method
The project team reviewed information from the Caltrain electrification project EIR to estimate decreases in diesel 
use and increases in electricity use from electrification. The team combined these data with information from the 
inventory to scale these changes in activity data specifically to San Mateo. The team applied the Caltrain 
emissions factors from the inventory to determine net GHG reductions from electrification.
GHG Sources
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board. 2014. Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project Draft Environmental Impact 
Report. 
http://www.caltrain.com/projectsplans/CaltrainModernization/Modernization/PeninsulaCorridorElectrificatio
nProject/PCEP_DEIR_2014.html.
426 of 599

--- page 427 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-14
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
TECHNICAL DATA FOR QUANTIFIED MEASURES
Data sources, methods, and assumptions for the quantification of CAP measures are provided below. 
BE 1 All-electric new construction
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Cumulative % of residential construction influenced by energy 
efficiency reach code:
90%35%
95%35%
95%40%
Cumulative % of office commercial construction influenced by energy 
efficiency reach code:
85%35%
90%35%
95%35%
Cumulative % of non-office commercial construction influenced by 
energy efficiency reach code:
40%0%
60%20%
90%35%
Cumulative % new non-residential buildings that are office space:
59%40%
64%40%
64%40%
Activity and GHG reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-8,588,290-
441,650
-15,674,440-
2,386,810
-19,303,790-
3,903,360
Natural gas savings (therms)
3,099,740
167,970
5,653,260
874,230
6,936,870
1,395,480
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
88021,070
4,64038,450
7,42047,250
427 of 599

--- page 428 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-15
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of all-electric 
new construction 
residential housing units
480 8,280 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
2,73019,360 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
5,52025,500 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
Square feet of all-electric 
new construction non-
residential buildings
24,560837,280 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
548,7302,264,130 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
2,508,8103,424,010 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
GHG Method
The project team obtained data from Strive San Mateo the 2030 General Plan 2040 Land Use Element on 
projected buildout of nonresidential buildings in San Mateo and data from Association of Bay Area Governments 
(ABAG) Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 20502045, and used these data 
to estimate the number of new buildings that would be impacted by an all-electric new construction reach code. 
The team identified the average amount of natural gas used per household are per nonresidential square foot 
and data on the equivalent amount of electricity that would be required in an all-electric version of similar 
buildings and applied this information to the projected number of new buildings built in order to estimate the 
projected reduction in natural gas consumption and the projected increase in electricity consumption resulting 
from the policy. The team then applied the emission factor for avoided natural gas consumption to estimate the 
emissions reduction associated with reduced natural gas consumption, and the emission factor for electricity use 
to estimate the emissions increase associated with increased electricity consumption. The net resulting emissions 
is the estimated emissions avoided from the policy.
GHG Sources
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2006. 
"California 
Commercial 
End-Use 
Survey.”. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/ceus/2006_enduse.html
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2009. 
"2009 
California 
Residential 
Appliance 
Saturation 
Study.”. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous_rass.html
428 of 599

--- page 429 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-16
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
BE 2 All-electric existing buildings
Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20452050
Cumulative percent of commercial buildings that are office space
59%40%
64%40%
64%40%
Cumulative percent of residential gas equipment reaching end of 
life replaced with electric due to panel incentive
35%5%
40%10%
50%20%
Cumulative percent of residential electrical panel upgrades 
resulting in EV purchase
50%15%
35%20%
20%25%
Cumulative percent of office gas equipment reaching end of life 
replaced with electric due to panel incentive
70%5%
75%10%
90%20%
Cumulative percent of office electrical panel upgrades resulting 
in EV charging installation
40%10%
30%10%
20%15%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing gasoline vehicle
9998%
9897%
96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing diesel vehicle
13%
23%
4%
Activity and GHG reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-80,105,780-444,130
-125,747,100-
9,897,890
-133,624,540-
61,334,800
Natural gas savings (therms)
5,002,49063,350
11,459,3401,393,740
17,775,0007,855,640
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
620102,210
13,950184,610
85,960221,260
429 of 599

--- page 430 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-17
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Existing residential gas 
to electric HVAC 
conversions
130 9,890 existing 
residential gas HVAC 
systems replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
2,86022,620 existing 
residential gas HVAC 
systems replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
16,10035,340 existing 
residential gas HVAC 
systems replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
Existing residential gas 
to electric water heating 
conversions
190 14,840 existing 
residential gas water 
heaters replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
4,28033,920 existing 
residential gas water 
heaters replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
24,15053,000 existing 
residential gas water 
heaters replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
Existing residential gas 
to electric clothes drying 
conversions
190 7,420 existing 
residential gas clothes 
dryers replaced with 
electric clothes dryers.
4,28016,960 existing 
residential gas clothes 
dryers replaced with 
electric clothes dryers.
24,15026,500 existing 
residential gas clothes 
dryers replaced with 
electric clothes dryers.
Existing residential gas 
to electric cooking 
conversions
160 5,940 existing 
residential gas ranges 
and ovens replaced with 
electric ranges and ovens.
3,43013,570 existing 
residential gas ranges 
and ovens replaced with 
electric ranges and ovens.
19,32021,200 existing 
residential gas ranges 
and ovens replaced with 
electric ranges and ovens.
Existing residential 
electrical panel 
upgrades
340 19,050 existing 
residential electrical 
panels upgraded.
7,43043,530 existing 
residential electrical 
panels upgraded.
41,86068,020 existing 
residential electrical 
panels upgraded.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric HVAC 
conversions
32,5605,523,120 square 
feet of existing office 
buildings replace existing 
gas HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
716,37012,778,100 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas HVAC 
systems with electric 
HVAC systems.
4,037,71019,167,150 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas HVAC 
systems with electric 
HVAC systems.
430 of 599

--- page 431 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-18
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
20302020
20402030
20452050
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric water heating 
conversions
48,8408,284,680 square 
feet of existing office 
buildings replace existing 
gas water heaters with 
electric water heaters.
1,074,55019,167,150 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas water 
heaters with electric 
water heaters.
6,056,56028,750,730 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas water 
heaters with electric 
water heaters.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric cooking 
conversions
39,0706,627,740 square 
feet of existing office 
buildings replace existing 
gas ranges and ovens 
with electric ranges and 
ovens.
859,64015,333,720 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas ranges and 
ovens with electric ranges 
and ovens.
4,845,25023,000,580 
square feet of existing 
office buildings replace 
existing gas ranges and 
ovens with electric ranges 
and ovens.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving 
electrical panel 
upgrades
60,24010,217,770 square 
feet of existing office 
buildings electrical panels 
upgraded.
1,325,28023,639,490 
square feet of existing 
office buildings electrical 
panels upgraded.
7,469,76035,459,230 
square feet of existing 
office buildings electrical 
panels upgraded.
Number of electric 
vehicles 
purchased/leased to 
replace internal 
combustion engine (ICE) 
vehicles
60 16,750 electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased by residents or 
commuters to replace 
internal combustion 
engine vehicles.
1,72027,780 electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased by residents or 
commuters to replace 
internal combustion 
engine vehicles.
12,45026,150 electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased by residents or 
commuters to replace 
internal combustion 
engine vehicles.
Existing office parking 
spaces with EV charging: 
10 8,170 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
office buildings.
270 14,180 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
office buildings.
2,24014,180 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
office buildings.
Existing residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging: 
50 9,520 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
residential buildings.
1,49015,240 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
residential buildings.
10,46013,600 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
residential buildings.
431 of 599

--- page 432 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-19
GHG Method
The project team used data from Strive San Mateo the 2030 General Plan 2040 Land Use Element on projected 
buildout of residential and nonresidential buildings in San Mateo and data from Association of Bay Area 
Governments (ABAG) Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 2050 2045 to 
estimate the number of existing buildings that would be impacted by a policy aimed at providing incentives to 
encourage residents and businesses to upgrade electric panels and adopt all-electric technologies. The team 
identified the percent of natural gas equipment (e.g.e.g., water heaters) that would be replaced at end of life if 
this policy existed, using the average life of natural gas equipment to estimate the number of each type of 
equipment type that would be replaced per year. Next, the project team consulted reports on the average amount 
of natural gas consumed by each type of equipment to estimate the natural gas consumption avoided through 
electrification of natural gas equipment. The team used data on energy factors by equipment type to estimate 
the resulting increase in electricity use resulting from the replacement of natural gas equipment with electric 
equipment. The team also identified performance indicators for the percent of EV chargers that would be installed 
as a result of this policy and the resulting number of EVs that would be purchased due to accessibility of charging. 
The team used data on the average VMT by a passenger vehicle, average efficiency of gasoline vehicles, average 
efficiency of diesel vehicles, and average efficiency of electric vehicles to estimate the resulting gasoline and 
diesel consumption avoided and increase in electricity use resulting from the replacement of gasoline and diesel 
vehicles with electric vehicles. Last, the team applied the appropriate emission factors for natural gas 
consumption, electricity use, gasoline consumption, and diesel consumption to estimate the emissions reduction 
associated with a reduction in natural gas consumption, gasoline consumption, and diesel consumption and the 
increase in emissions associated with an increase in electricity consumption. The net resulting emissions is the 
estimated emissions avoided from the policy.
GHG Sources
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2006. 
"California 
Commercial 
End-Use 
Survey.”. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/ceus/2006_enduse.html
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2009. 
"2009 
California 
Residential 
Appliance 
Saturation 
Study.”. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous_rass.html
RSMeans. 2019 RSMeans Online, 2019 [software package].
ASHRAE, 2017. "ASHRAE Technical FAQ". https://www.ashrae.org/technical-resources/technical-faqs.
US Department of Energy. 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov. https://www.fueleconomy.gov/. 
432 of 599

--- page 433 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-20
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
202217. 
“EMFAC2017 
EMFAC2021 
Web 
Database”. 
https://www.arb.ca.gov/emfac/2017/ https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/. .
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 2018. "CEC EV Infrastructure Projection Tool (EVI-Pro).". 
https://afdc.energy.gov/evi-pro-lite. 
433 of 599

--- page 434 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-21
RE I Peninsula Clean Energy
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of residents enrolling in PCE
98%
99%
99.5%
Percent of businesses enrolling in PCE
98%
99%
99.5%
Percent of direct access customers switching to PCE
02%
24%
5%
GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
380160
1,060170
0
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
PCE opt-out rate
21.0%
1.0%
0.5%
kWh supplied by ECO 100
32,959,21015,009,960
43,792,41028,976,980
55,425,75053,073,310
GHG Method
The project team identified the amount of electricity from San Mateo customers projected to switch from PG&E 
to PCE service, and PCE customers upgrading to ECO 100. The team next applied the difference in PG&E and PCE 
emissions factors for both regular and ECO 100 service to identify the decrease in GHG emissions.
GHG Sources
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2018. 
2017 
Power 
Content 
Label: 
Peninsula 
Clean 
Energy. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/pcl/labels/2017_labels/PCE_2017_PCL.pdf.
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2020. 
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan 
Annual 
Progress 
Report. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-Updates.
434 of 599

--- page 435 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-22
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Peninsula Clean Energy. 2018. Board Correspondence, December 10, 2018: Update on PCE’s Marketing and 
Outreach Activities. https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/2018-12-20-PCE-
BOD-Agenda-Packet-FINAL.pdf.
RE 2 Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing homes installing solar energy systems
15%4%
25%15%
30%
Percent of existing homes with solar energy systems installing 
battery storage systems
20%1%
35%20%
50%
Percent of new homes installing battery storage systems
25%2%
40%25%
60%
GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
7060
160170
0
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of homes built before 2018 with solar panels
4,960420
8,5404,700
10,540530
Number of total homes (existing and new) with battery energy 
systems
1,50040
12,0403,480
14,65022,710
GHG Method
For solar energy systems, the project team identified the number of existing homes in San Mateo that could be 
projected to have a solar energy system. Using data from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the team 
identified how much electricity these solar energy systems could generate annually and applied the community-
wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings. For battery systems, the team identified the number of new 
and existing homes installing solar energy systems and determined the number of these homes that could install 
a battery energy system. Assuming that battery systems fully charge and discharge once a day, the team 
identified how much additional renewable energy storage capacity would be enabled by the batteries. The project 
team then again applied the community-wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings.
435 of 599

--- page 436 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-23
GHG Sources
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.”. https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.
Regional Climate Action Planning Suite. 2019. RICAPS Menu of Measures version 4.1 [data table].
RE 3 Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing businesses installing solar energy systems
6%1.50%
10%6%
15%
Percent of existing businesses with solar energy systems installing 
battery storage systems
15%1%
25%15%
40%
GHG reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
1060
7090
0
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of businesses built before 2018 with solar panels
18010
340200
550580
Number of existing businesses with battery energy systems
400
10040
240250
GHG Method
The project team identified the number of existing businesses in San Mateo that could be projected to have a 
solar energy system. Using data from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the team identified how much 
electricity these solar energy systems could generate annually and applied the community-wide electricity factor 
to identify electricity savings. Next, the team identified the number of existing businesses installing solar energy 
systems and determined the number of these businesses that could install a battery energy system. Assuming 
that battery systems fully charge and discharge once a day, the team identified how much additional renewable 
436 of 599

--- page 437 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-24
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
energy storage capacity would be enabled by the batteries. The project team then again applied the community-
wide electricity factor to identify electricity savings.
GHG Sources
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. n.d. “PVWatts Calculator.”. https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/.
Regional Climate Action Planning Suite. 2019. RICAPS Menu of Measures version 4.1 [data table].
EE 1 Residential energy efficiency retrofits
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing homes conducting standard retrofits (not including 
fuel-switched homes)
15%2%
18%25%
20%60%
Percent of existing homes retrofitting to current Title 24 standards (not 
including fuel-switched homes)
20%0%
25%5%
30%20%
Activity and GHG reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
9,137,050935,040
7,303,02022,303,130
6,039,13063,551,960
Natural gas savings (therms)
903,66073,040
1,030,2501,120,590
996,8603,358,020
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
4106,160
6,0307,020
17,8606,790
437 of 599

--- page 438 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-25
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of 
homes 
retrofitted
400 2,290 single-family 
homes and 340 1,840 multi-
family homes undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 0 
3,060 single-family homes 
and 0 2,450 multi-family 
homes being upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards
4,7202,540 single-family 
homes and 42,040 multi-
family homes undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 940 
3,530 single-family homes 
and 810 2,830 multi-family 
homes being upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards
10,0602,350 single-family 
homes and 8,6201,890 multi-
family homes undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 
3,3503,530 single-family 
homes and 2,8702,830 multi-
family homes being 
upgraded to current Title 24 
standards
GHG Method
The project team looked at reports from retrofit programs throughout California to identify the typical electricity 
and natural gas savings from single-family and multi-family home retrofits and applied these savings to the 
energy use patterns of residences in San Mateo. The team next reviewed current and projected future Title 24 
standards against the current energy performance of San Mateo homes and projections of future San Mateo 
Title 24 retrofits to determine the typical electricity and natural gas savings. The team then applied the 
appropriate emissions factors to the energy savings estimates to determine GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
California Energy Commission. 2014. Impact Evaluation of the California Comprehensive Residential Retrofit 
Programs. 
EE 2 Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing businesses conducting standard retrofits (not 
including fuel-switched businesses)
25%3%
35%40%
10%75%
Percent of existing businesses retrofitting to current Title 24 standards 
(not including fuel-switched businesses)
15%0%
40%5%
75%20%
438 of 599

--- page 439 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-26
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
22,252,7803,488,130
60,968,63046,736,170
93,592,880119,125,61
0
Natural gas savings (therms)
535,400121,600
1,266,5701,629,220
1,964,0003,203,760
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
8403,800
9,9308,860
17,04013,380
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of 
businesses 
retrofitted
120 590 businesses 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 0 360 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
1,600740 businesses 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 200 840 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
2,870170 businesses 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 770 1,300 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
GHG Method
The project team looked at reports of the energy savings from different types of nonresidential energy efficiency 
retrofits to identify the typical electricity and natural gas savings from these activities and applied these savings 
to the energy use patterns of San Mateo businesses. The team next reviewed current and projected future Title 
24 standards against the current energy performance of San Mateo businesses and projections of future San 
Mateo Title 24 retrofits to determine the typical electricity and natural gas savings. The team then applied the 
appropriate emissions factors to the energy savings estimates to determine GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Office Buildings. 
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20761.pdf.
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Retail Buildings. 
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20814.pdf.
439 of 599

--- page 440 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-27
EE 3 Residential tree planting
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of households with shade trees
210%
1025%
35%
Activity and GHG reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
174,760793,560
874,6101,889,740
3,064,1102,837,540
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 100
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of households with shade trees
8604,240
4,82013,130
18,77022,330
GHG Method
The GHG inventory and reports from PG&E were used to identify per business energy use in San Mateo, while 
data from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, the California Energy Commission, and academic studies 
were used to determine reductions per home. These results were combined with participation rates to calculate 
total reductions in energy use from this measure. The outcome was then combined with emissions factors from 
the inventory to determine GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
The project team reviewed studies about the typical electricity savings from reduced air conditioning demand 
associated with tree planting. The team then applied this information to projections of future participation and 
the energy use patterns in San Mateo to identify total electricity reduction. Next, the team converted this to GHG 
emission savings using the appropriate emissions factors.
440 of 599

--- page 441 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-28
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ME 1 Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
GHG Assumptions, Reductions, and Performance Indicators
This measure is supportive due to the lack of information about future municipal construction. There are no 
assumptions, activity or GHG reductions, or performance indicators for supportive measures.
GHG Method
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions, so no calculations were made.
GHG Sources
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions. There are no sources for GHG reduction 
calculations for supportive measures. 
441 of 599

--- page 442 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-29
ME 2 Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing municipal square footage retrofitted
010%
1025%
35%
Note that these retrofits go beyond those included as part of the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program, as those are already 
accounted for as a planned action.
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
67,26021,240
168,140106,200
235,400371,700
Natural gas savings (therms)
1,860740
4,6403,700
6,50012,960
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
2030
7040
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Square footage of retrofitted municipal buildings
9,4403,970
23,61019,830
33,05069,390
GHG Method
The project team looked at the typical energy efficiency savings that can be achieved with retrofits to office 
buildings and applied this reduction to the projected amount of retrofitted City square footage to calculate the 
total electricity and natural gas savings. The team then used the appropriate emission factors to identify the GHG 
reductions from these retrofits.
GHG Sources
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2007. 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventory 
Report. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5262/APPENDIX-S-October24-2007?bidId=
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. 2011. Advanced Energy Retrofit Guides: Office Buildings. 
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-20761.pdf.
442 of 599

--- page 443 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-30
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ME 3 All-electric municipal buildings 
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Cumulative building area of existing municipal building/s 
electrified (square feet):
40,000
4060,000
80,000
Cumulative number of police stations & fire stations electrified: 
0
0
1
Cumulative building area of new municipal building/s electrified 
(square feet):
40,000
4060,000
80,000
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-157,3800
-236,070-157,380
-314,760
Natural gas savings (therms)
19,7600
29,64019,760
39,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
130
110200
210270
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Square feet of 
existing municipal 
building/s electrified: 
40,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
4060,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
80,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
Number of police 
stations & fire 
stations electrified: 
0 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
0 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
1 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
Square feet of new 
municipal building/s 
electrified: 
40,000 square feet of new 
municipal buildings built 
all-electric.
4060,000 square feet of 
new municipal buildings 
built all-electric.
80,000 square feet of new 
municipal buildings built 
all-electric.
443 of 599

--- page 444 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-31
GHG Method
The project team to inputs from City staff to project the total square footage of new municipal construction that 
is built all-electric and existing municipal construction that is retrofitted to be all-electric. The team estimated 
annual gas use associated with the existing municipal buildings to be retrofitted and the newly constructed 
municipal buildings (assuming they were built with natural gas equipment), based on energy use intensity 
information from the California Energy Commission Commercial End-Use Survey. The team used this estimate 
on "business as usual" natural gas consumption for these buildings to calculate the natural gas consumption 
avoided from retrofitting to all-electric or building to all-electric. The team looked at data on the average amount 
of natural gas consumed by each type of equipment to estimate the natural gas consumption avoided through 
electrification of natural gas equipment and used data on energy factors by equipment type was used to estimate 
the resulting increase in electricity use resulting from the replacement of natural gas equipment with electric 
equipment. The team applied emission factors for natural gas consumption and electricity use to estimate the 
emissions reduction associated with a reduction in natural gas consumption and the increase in emissions 
associated with an increase in electricity use and took the net resulting emissions as the estimated emissions 
avoided from the policy.
GHG Sources
California 
Energy 
Commission. 
2009. 
"2009 
California 
Residential 
Appliance 
Saturation 
Study.”. 
https://ww2.energy.ca.gov/appliances/rass/previous_rass.html
444 of 599

--- page 445 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-32
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
CF 1 Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Cumulative average square feet of new commercial building space per 
parking spot
300
300
300
Cumulative target Target percent of new workplace parking to have EV 
charger installed
20%10%
20%13%
25%17%
Cumulative target Target percent of new multi-unit dwelling residents 
with EV charger access
15%8%
25%16%
30%22%
Cumulative target Target percent of new single-family homes to have 
EV charger outlet installed
15%0%
25%50%
35%70%
Cumulative percent commercial buildings that are office space with 
parking
59%40%
64%40%
64%40%
Cumulative average square feet of existing commercial building space 
per parking spot
600
600
600
Cumulative targetTarget percent of existing workplace parking to have 
EV charger installed
7%1%
8%10%
10%15%
Cumulative targetTarget percent of existing multi-unit dwelling 
residents with access to EV charging
7%1%
8%10%
10%15%
Cumulative target additional public parking spaces with EV charging
238
3055
60
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a gasoline vehicle
9998%
9897%
96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a diesel vehicle
12%
23%
4%
Target percent of heavy-duty vehicle converted to EV
5%
20%
25%
445 of 599

--- page 446 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-33
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-2,557,76022,561,870
-27,826,15036,502,430
-64,649,83051,974,960
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
2,6524,420
29,63049,390
71,15069,780
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
New non-residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
1,570 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
2,7003,160 EV charging 
ports installed at new 
non-residential buildings. 
10,8105,010 EV charging 
ports installed at new 
non-residential buildings. 
New multi-unit dwelling 
residential parking 
spaces with EV charging
810 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
1,0603,380 EV charging 
ports installed at new 
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
2,3205,290 EV charging 
ports installed at new 
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
New single-family 
residential parking 
spaces with EV charger 
outlet
680 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
1,310 970 EV charging 
outlets installed at new 
single-family residential 
buildings. 
2,9103,600 EV charging 
outlets installed at new 
single-family residential 
buildings. 
Existing non-residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
170 1,540 EV charging 
ports installed at 
existing non-residential 
buildings. 
2,040 100 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
non-residential buildings. 
4,352,770 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
non-residential buildings. 
Existing multi-unit 
dwelling residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
210 1,850 EV charging 
ports installed at 
existing multi-family 
residential buildings. 
2,570380 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
3,980 530 EV charging 
ports installed at existing 
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
Existing additional public 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
2 38 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
public locations. 
30 60 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
60 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
446 of 599

--- page 447 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-34
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of light-duty 
electric vehicles 
purchased/ or
leased to replace ICE 
vehicles
570 5510 light-duty 
electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
7,80010,840 light-duty 
electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
20,04016,110 light-duty 
electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
GHG Method
The project team relied on data from the Strive San Mateo2030 General Plan 2040 Land Use Element for the 
projected buildout of nonresidential buildings in San Mateo, along with data from Association of Bay Area 
Governments (ABAG) Plan Bay Area on projected buildout of households in San Mateo out to 2050, to estimate 
the number of new buildings that would be impacted by an electric vehicle charging infrastructure new 
construction reach code. The team used permit data from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to estimate the percent of new residential units that will be single family or duplex vs. 3+ unit 
multi-family. Using assumptions regarding the building square footage per new development parking space, the 
team identified the total number of parking spaces associated with multi-family residential and commercial 
development, assuming an increasing percentage of new development parking spaces will be required to be 
built electric vehicle (EV) capable to accommodate electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). The team looked at 
how the deployment of EVSE in new development is projected to increase the rate at which residents and 
employees will replace gasoline vehicles with EVs, and estimated how the increased adoption of EVs is likely to 
decrease the VMT (and associated gasoline and diesel consumption) from gasoline and diesel vehicles and 
increase the VMT (and associated electricity use) from EVs. The team then applied emission factors for avoided 
gasoline and diesel consumption, and increased electricity use, and took the difference as the net reduction in 
GHG emissions.
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 20182022. "EMFAC2017 EMFAC2021 Web Database.”.
NREL, 2018. "CEC EV Infrastructure Projection Tool (EVI-Pro).".
U.S. Census Bureau. 2017. "American Community Survey.".
447 of 599

--- page 448 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-35
U.S. Department of Energy. 2019. "www.fueleconomy.gov.".
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 2019. "State of the Cities Data Systems.".
U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration. 2016. "Average miles driven per year by 
state.".
448 of 599

--- page 449 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-36
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
CF 2 Electric vehicle education and outreach
Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Target percent of total community Transportation Network 
Company (TNC) VMT from electric vehicles
30%2%
45%60%
60%90%
Target percent total community VMT from electric vehicles
30%4.5%
60%30%
70%74%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-4,334,040-
885,200
-6,786,810-
16,127,620
-10,211,980-
16,697,140
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
9804,910
17,0508,030
17,12012,360
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Annual additional 
VMT travelled by 
EV TNCs
0 17,528,180 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
44,448,38030,375,160 
vehicle miles travelled by 
internal combustion 
engine transportation 
network companies 
vehicles replaced with 
electric vehicles. 
74,729,99045,704,900 
vehicle miles travelled by 
internal combustion 
engine transportation 
network companies 
vehicles replaced with 
electric vehicles. 
Number of electric 
vehicles 
purchased/leased 
to replace ICE 
vehicles due to 
education/outreach
/incentives
200 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
1,440 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
0 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
449 of 599

--- page 450 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-37
GHG Method
The projected team relied on forecasted total community VMT from passenger vehicles and estimates from the 
City of San Francisco on the percent of total community VMT from Transportation Network Companies (TNCs) 
to estimate the total annual VMT from TNCs in City of San Mateo. The team assumed that the policy or program 
aimed at regulating or incentivizing TNCs to increase adoption of EVs will results in a specific percent of TNCs 
being EVs by a given target year, and then estimated how the increased adoption of TNC EVs will decrease the 
VMT (and associated gasoline consumption) associated with gasoline vehicles and increase the VMT (and 
associated electricity consumption) associated with EVs. The team applied the emission factor for avoided 
gasoline consumption, and an emissions factor for increased electricity use. The difference between the two 
results is the net GHG reduction from this measure. 
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board, 20182022. "EMFAC2017 EMFAC2021 Web Database.". 
San Francisco County Transportation Authority. 2017. “"TNCs Today: A Profile of San Francisco Transportation 
Network Company Activity.”. 
US Department of Energy. 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov.
CF 3 Clean City fleet
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20452050
Percent of City vehicles replaced with EVs
25%3%
45%25%
60%
Percent of City vehicles fueled by biomethane
15%7%
20%15%
25%
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-11,640105,540
-135,510212,500
-353,720319,750
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
130
170200
420270
450 of 599

--- page 451 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-38
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Fleet EV VMT
610,02069,210
1,250,360643,920
1,779,0201,715,120
Fleet biomethane VMT
366,010161,480
555,720386,350
741,260714,630
GHG Method
The projected team looked at State projections for regional increases in electric and natural gas (including 
biomethane) vehicles and applied these proportions to the City municipal fleet. The team then took the local 
projections for increases in electric and natural gas vehicles in the municipal fleet and identified the increase in 
electric and natural gas VMT resulting from local policies. The team then adjusted the natural gas VMT to account 
for the different energy density of natural gas and gasoline/diesel and calculated the increase in electricity 
resulting from greater municipal EV adoption. Lastly, the team applied emission factors, taking the net difference 
between decreased VMT emissions from electric and natural gas vehicle adoption and increased electricity use 
as the overall GHG benefit. 
GHG Sources
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2007. 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventory 
Report. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5262/APPENDIX-S-October24-2007?bidId=
ICLEI Local Governments for Sustainability USA. 2012. US Community Protocol for Accounting and Reporting of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. http://www.icleiusa.org/tools/ghgprotocol/community-protocol.
Gable, C., and Gable, S. 2019. “Gasoline Gallon Equivalents (GGE).”. https://www.thoughtco.com/fuel-energy-
comparisons-85636. 
CF 4 Clean fuel
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Target % total community VMT from hydrogen vehicles
0.018%
1.530%
3.545%
451 of 599

--- page 452 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-39
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-53,5402,186,300
-6,526,2808,413,180
-14,423,21013,430,770
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
204,210
3,13016,920
7,00026,360
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of heavy-duty 
hydrogen vehicles 
purchased/ or
leased to replace ICE 
vehicles due to 
education, outreach, 
or incentives
5 260 hydrogen fuel 
heavy-duty cell vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
800 1,110 hydrogen fuel 
cell heavy-duty vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
1,9601,770 hydrogen fuel 
cell heavy-duty vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
GHG Method
The project team estimated how the deployment of hydrogen fueling stations will increase the rate at which 
residents and employees will replace heavy-duty gasoline and diesel vehicles with hydrogen fuel cell vehicles 
(FCVs). The team analyzed how the increased adoption of FCVs is likely to decrease the VMT (and associated 
gasoline consumption) associated with heavy-duty gasoline diesel vehicles and increase the VMT (and associated 
hydrogen consumption) associated with FCVs. The team used data from the U.S. Department of Energy on the 
efficiency of the electrolysis process to estimate the amount of electricity required to produce hydrogen. The 
team then applied an emission factor for avoided gasoline and diesel consumption to estimate the emissions 
reduction associated with reduced gasoline and diesel consumption, and an emission factor for electricity 
consumption to estimate the emissions increase associated with increased electricity use. The net resulting 
emissions is the estimated emissions avoided from the policy. 
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board, 20182022. "EMFAC2017 EMFAC2021 Web Database.”.
452 of 599

--- page 453 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-40
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
California Air Resources Board, 2023. “Final 2022 Scoping Plan – AB 32 GHG Inventory Sectors Modeling Data 
Spreadsheet.”. https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/ab-32-climate-change-scoping-plan/2022-scoping-
plan-documents. 
US Department of Energy, 2019. www.fueleconomy.gov. 
U.S. Department of Energy, 2019. "DOE Technical Targets for Hydrogen Production from Electrolysis.". 
453 of 599

--- page 454 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-41
ST 1 Bicycle mode share
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Additional miles of bike lanes
1.322
1045.2
3045.2
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
Travel savings (VMT)
106,930300,960
874,290704,120
2,742,520751,370
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
4080
240170
670180
Performance Indicators
20202030
20302040
20502045
Total miles of bike lanes
5878
67101
87101
GHG Method
The project team identified projected increase in bike lanes from implementation of the Bicycle Master Plan. 
Based on the density proposed additional miles of bike lanes per square mile in San Mateo, the team followed 
the recommendations of the California Air Pollution Control Officer’s Association to estimate the projected 
decrease in VMT as a result. The team then applied the appropriate emissions factors to calculate the GHG 
reduction.
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Mitigation 
MeasuresHandbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and 
Advancing Health and Equity.”.
City of San Mateo. 2019. City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3944/Bicycle-
Master-Plan-Update.
454 of 599

--- page 455 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-42
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ST 2 Pedestrian mode share
GHG Assumptions
It is assumed that all new development occurs in infill areas (areas with existing development)
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20302040
20502045
Travel savings (VMT)
1,159,460436,590
2,853,720497,160
4,650,540530,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
390110
760120
1,110130
Performance Indicators
There are no performance indicators associated with this measure.
GHG Method
Ustilizing the Pedestrian Master Plan, tThe project team identified the number existing and planned miles of new 
people and jobs from new developments that are projected to be in areas with good pedestrian 
connectionssidewalks and pedestrian pathways in San Mateo. The team applied a method recommended by the 
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association to determine the VMT reduction, and then applied the 
appropriate emissions factor to calculate GHG reductions.
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity.Quantifying 
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures”.
City of San Mateo. 2012. “Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan.”. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2218/Pedestrian-
Master-Plan
455 of 599

--- page 456 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-43
ST 3 Micromobility and shared mobility
GHG assumptions, activity and GHG reductions, and performance indicators.
This is a supportive measure, due to the lack of sufficient data or a feasible method of quantification that would 
avoid double-counting reductions with other measures. As a result, there are no assumptions, activity or GHG 
reductions, and performance indicators associated with this measure.
GHG Method
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions, so no calculations were made.
GHG Sources
Supportive measures do not produce direct, measurable GHG reductions. There are no sources for GHG reduction 
calculations for supportive measures. 
ST 4 Public transit service
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Bus commute sharecoverage
315%
520%
1020%
Percent increase in Caltrain ridershipservice 
625%
8740%
26350%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-668,49010,253,31
-9,447,93023,468,340
-28,739,58031,189,470
Travel savings (VMT)
2,395,93013,770,100
33,318,34023,451,790
102,835,75029,098,510
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
8303,610
9,1305,660
25,1106,910
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
456 of 599

--- page 457 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-44
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Bus commute share
315%
520%
1020%
Average Caltrain daily ridership in San Mateo
4,2308,070
7,44012,900
14,49015,720
GHG Method
For increases in the bus travelcoverage network, the project team looked at San Mateo’s current bus commute 
share and targets for future bus commute share and calculated the net increasemade an assumption regarding 
the percentage increase in bus network miles. Using methods from the California Air Pollution Control District, 
the project team determined the VMT reduction that would occur given this increase in network coverage, and 
then applied the appropriate GHG emissions factor. For an increase in Caltrain service frequency, the project 
team reviewed Caltrain’s existing business plan and projected increases in ridership service under the “Moderate 
Growth” scenario, then applied this increase to San Mateo. Using factors from the inventory and existing/planned 
activity calculations, the team determined the VMT reduction from increased Caltrain growth service as well as 
the increase in electricity use due to Caltrain becoming a mostly electric system. The team applied the appropriate 
emissions factors to the difference in VMT to calculate a reduction in emissions.and took the difference between 
the two as the net reduction from Caltrain ridership growth.
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and EquityQuantifying 
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures.” 
Caltrain. 2020. Caltrain Business Plan Summary Report. 
https://www.caltrain.com/media/24042/download?inline.
Caltrain. 2017. Caltrain 2017 Annual Passenger Count, Key Findings. 
http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/_Marketing/caltrain/pdf/2016/2017+Annual+Count+Key+Findings+Report.pdf.
Caltrain. 2019. Caltrain Business Plan: Developing a Long-Range Vision for Caltrain. https://caltrain2040.org/wp-
content/uploads/CBP_CIA_R2_Booklet_SanMateo-2.pdf.
U.S. Census Bureau. 202318. 20143 – 20197 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates, B08006: Sex of 
Workers by Means of Transportation to Work [data table].
457 of 599

--- page 458 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-45
ST 5 Commuter programs
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing employers (pre-2006) participating in TDM
05%
520%
30%
Average trip reduction from voluntary TDM participation, 
beyond other CAP measures
08%
830%
40%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Travel savings (VMT)
015,290
466,240278,640
13,987,130669,000
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
Less than 10
13070
3,420160
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Existing (pre-2006) businesses participating in TDM efforts
130
210540
1,250810
GHG Method
The project team identified the amount of commute-related VMT from personal vehicles associated with existing 
businesses and applied the projected metrics from voluntary participation in Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) programs to determine the total VMT reduction from implementation of this measure. The 
team then used the appropriate emissions factors to calculate GHG reductions. It is assumed that these TDM 
standards would go beyond trip reductions associated with other measures in the CAP, as the goal of TDM efforts 
is to reduce trip generation below the level that would otherwise occur if the TDM requirement was not in place.
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and EquityQuantifying 
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures.” 
458 of 599

--- page 459 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-46
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
ST 6 Transportation Demand Management
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of new developments subject to TDM rules
90%
9590%
9590%
Average trip reduction from new development 
subject to TDM rules, beyond other CAP measures
6.2510%
1015%
4020%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Travel savings (VMT)
167,9207,646,580
8,500,89032,944,170
34,636,73056,484,350
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
602,010
2,3307,950
8,46013,410
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Service population in new development (2018 and later) 
subject to the TDM ordinance
2,91029,940
20,41065,680
43,87086,010
GHG Method
The project team determined the number of new people and jobs in developments that would be subject to TDM 
rules, excluding those already identified through the existing and planned activities assessment. Using 
projections of future TDM standards, the project team determined the amount of VMT that would be reduced 
by future TDM requirements, then converted this reduction to a decrease in GHG emissions. It is assumed that 
these TDM standards would go beyond trip reductions associated with other measures in the CAP, as the goal 
of TDM efforts is to reduce trip generation below the level that would otherwise occur if the TDM requirement 
was not in place.
459 of 599

--- page 460 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-47
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and EquityQuantifying 
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures.” 
ST 7 Transit-oriented development
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Percent of new units in areas supporting transit-oriented 
development
9095%
95%
95%
Percent of new nonresidential square footage in areas supporting 
transit-oriented development
8590%
90%
90%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Travel savings (VMT)
464,11038,865,630
3,605,90078,398,130
9,695,49099,833,910
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
16010,200
99018,920
2,37023,700
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
New development in 
TOD zones
3,6809,610 households 
and 0 7,350 employees
8,77020,330 households 
and 2,98014,880 employees
13,94026,520 households 
and 5,71018,970 employees
GHG Method
The project team identified the anticipated development in areas that support transit-oriented development and 
used geospatial analysis to obtain a reasonable estimate of the new growth potential in these areas. The team 
then used resources from the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association to determine the VMT reduction 
associated with transit-oriented development in these areas, then applied the appropriate emissions factors to 
calculate GHG reductions.
460 of 599

--- page 461 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-48
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
GHG Sources
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. 20102021. “Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and EquityQuantifying 
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures.” 
City of San Mateo. 2018. Area plans [GIS file].
City of San Mateo. 2018. SMRoadCenterline [GIS file].
Metropolitan Transportation Commission. 2017. Major_Transit_Stops_2017 [GIS file].
461 of 599

--- page 462 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-49
SW 1 Composting program
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Residential composting participation rate
5590%
9093%
95%
Nonresidential composting participation rate
1085%
8088%
90%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Waste savings (tons)
2,1902,350
28,9103,900
33,9104,220
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
9501,030
12,6501,710
14,8501,850
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Composting 
participation levels
23,67047,270 households 
and 410 3,890 businesses
43,36059,020 households 
and 34,510 businesses
50,94066,800 households 
and 4,120 880 businesses
GHG Method
The project team reviewed the number of future projected residences and nonresidential buildings participating 
in the community’s composting program, removing the currently participating customers to only focus on growth 
in the composting program. The team used results of a statewide waste characterization study to estimate the 
total amount of organic waste generated by the participants and combined this information with technical factors 
for waste decomposition by materials to identify the total reduction in GHG emissions. 
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting 
of 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventories 
version 
1.1. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo_protocol_v1_1_2010-05-03.pdf
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
2011. 
Landfill 
Emissions 
Tool 
version 
1.3. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm
462 of 599

--- page 463 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-50
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 202015. 20184 Disposal-Facility-Based 
Characterization of Solid Waste in California. https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1546. 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo. 
2022. 
2022 
Climate 
Action 
Plan 
Annual 
Progress 
Report. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-Updates
SW 2 Expanded recycling service
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Target diversion rate
7585%
8588%
90%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Waste savings (tons)
1,3209,860
8,71012,570
13,86014,330
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
8106,070
5,3607,730
8,5308,820
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Total tons of recyclables recovered (curbside bins only)
49,43022,450
61,70027,420
73,40030,480
GHG Method
The project team looked at projections of how San Mateo’s diversion rate from curbside recycling may increase 
in future years and used statewide waste characterization studies to identify the amounts of various material 
types that could be recovered from this increase. The team then applied the results of technical studies about 
waste decomposition to determine the total GHG reductions that would result from increased waste collection.
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting 
of 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventories 
version 
1.1. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo_protocol_v1_1_2010-05-03.pdf
463 of 599

--- page 464 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-51
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
2011. 
Landfill 
Emissions 
Tool 
version 
1.3. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 202015. 20184 Disposal-Facility-Based 
Characterization 
of 
Solid 
Waste 
in 
California. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1666https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Detail
s/1546. 
Murray, RChow, A. 202318. City of San Mateo. Personal communication to AE. ChowKrispi, City of San 
MateoPlaceWorks. November April 2415.
SW 3 Waste awareness and source reduction
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage
5%
20%
50%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Waste savings (tons)
2,25015,420
10,20030,110
29,51041,510
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
4202,080
1,9104,050
5,5105,590
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage 
sent to landfills
15,4202,250
30,11010,200
41,51029,510
GHG Method
The project team looked at statewide waste characterization studies to determine the amount of materials being 
produced in San Mateo that could not be recycled or composted (including construction and demolition wastes) 
and used technical studies about waste characterization to determine the GHG emissions associated with a ton 
of this waste material. The project team then examined projections about waste awareness potential to identify 
464 of 599

--- page 465 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-52
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
how much of this waste could be reduced in future years and combined these two outcomes to determine the 
total GHG savings. 
GHG Sources
California Air Resources Board. 2010. Local Government Operations Protocol for the Quantification and Reporting 
of 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Emissions 
Inventories 
version 
1.1. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/protocols/localgov/pubs/lgo_protocol_v1_1_2010-05-03.pdf
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
2011. 
Landfill 
Emissions 
Tool 
version 
1.3. 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/landfills/landfills.htm
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery. 202015. 20184 Disposal-Facility-Based 
Characterization 
of 
Solid 
Waste 
in 
California. 
https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Details/1666https://www2.calrecycle.ca.gov/Publications/Detail
s/1546. 
WW 1 Water- efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Percent of existing homes retrofitting water fixtures
50%10%
70%50%
9580%
Percent of existing businesses retrofitting water fixtures
40%5%
70%40%
9580%
Percent of existing homes with greywater systems
5%0%
15%5%
20%
Percent of existing businesses with greywater systems
3%0%
10%3%
15%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
38,960411,310
345,160777,100
877,710914,320
Water savings (millions of gallons)
20160
130280
300340
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
20170
100300
230360
465 of 599

--- page 466 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-53
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of water 
efficiency retrofits
3,89019,890 existing 
homes and 210 1,610 
existing businesses with 
water efficiency retrofits.
19,47027,840 existing 
homes and 1,6702,820 
existing businesses with 
water efficiency retrofits.
37,00031,820 existing 
homes and 3,9603,230 
existing businesses with 
water efficiency retrofits.
Number of 
greywater system 
installations as part 
of retrofit activities
0 2,120 homes and 0 120 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
1,9506,360 homes and 120 
400 businesses with 
greywater systems 
installed.
7,7908,480 homes and 620 
610 businesses with 
greywater systems 
installed.
GHG Method
Working on the assumption that half of greywater systems are laundry-to-landscaping, and that the other half 
uses greywater from additional sources such as wash basins and showers, the project team identified the water 
savings resulting from greywater systems for an individual home or business. The project team then used the 
water savings to determine the decrease in electricity use and direct process emissions associated with this effort 
per building, and then applied the projections of greywater installations at existing San Mateo buildings as part 
of retrofit activities to identify the total water, electricity, and direct process emissions. The team applied the 
appropriate electricity emissions coefficients to identify the additional GHG savings.
GHG Sources
Alliance for Water Efficiency. 2009. Making Every Drop Work: Increasing Water Efficiency in California’s 
Commercial, 
Industrial, 
and 
Institutional 
(CII) 
Sector. 
https://www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org/resources/publications/making-every-drop-work-increasing-
water-efficiency-california%E2%80%99s-commercial.
California Department of Water Resources. 2013. California Water Plan 2013 Update, Volume 3, Chapter 3: Water 
Use 
Efficiency. 
http://toolbox.calwep.org/wiki/California_Water_Plan_2013_Update_(selections)#tab=Vol__3_Ch__3_-
_Water_Use_Efficiency. 
California Department of Water Resources. 2017. Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life: 
Implementing 
Executive 
Order 
B-37-16. 
https://water.ca.gov/-/media/DWR-Website/Web-
466 of 599

--- page 467 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-54
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Pages/Programs/Water-Use-And-Efficiency/Make-Water-Conservation-A-California-Way-of-Life/County-
Drought-Planning/Files/Making-Water-Conservation-a-CA-Way-of-Life-EO-B-37-16.pdf.
WW 2 Water-efficient landscaping
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Reduction in total outdoor water use
310%
1020%
25%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
85,940374,760
315,520827,380
886,2201,086,620
Water savings (millions of gallons)
260
220570
610750
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
0
GHG Method
The team estimated the total water use that occurs outdoors in San Mateo and determined the amount that 
would be reduced based on assumed participation levels. The project team then used the water savings to 
determine the decrease in electricity use associated with this effort and applied the appropriate electricity 
emissions coefficients to identify the GHG savings.
GHG Sources
There are no sources for this measure beyond the inventory and forecast.
WW 3 Water efficiency in new construction
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Percent of new homes installing greywater systems
8%0%
20%8%
25%
Percent of new businesses installing greywater systems
5%0%
15%5%
20%
467 of 599

--- page 468 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-55
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
07,620
5,99040,580
30,05066,320
Water savings (millions of gallons)
10
Less than 1030
2050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
10
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20452050
Number of new homes with greywater systems
810
7404,280
3,676,980
Number of new businesses with greywater systems
30
160
280
GHG Method
Working on the assumption that half of greywater systems are laundry-to-landscaping, and that the other half 
uses greywater from additional sources such as wash basins and showers, the project team identified the water 
savings resulting from greywater systems for an individual home or business. The project team then used the 
water savings to determine the decrease in electricity use and direct process emissions associated with this effort 
per building, and then applied the projections of greywater installations at new San Mateo buildings to identify 
the total water, electricity, and direct process emissions. The team applied the appropriate electricity emissions 
coefficients to identify the additional GHG savings.
GHG Sources
Alliance for Water Efficiency. 2009. Making Every Drop Work: Increasing Water Efficiency in California’s 
Commercial, 
Industrial, 
and 
Institutional 
(CII) 
Sector. 
https://www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org/resources/publications/making-every-drop-work-increasing-
water-efficiency-california%E2%80%99s-commercial.
California Department of Water Resources. 2013. California Water Plan 2013 Update, Volume 3, Chapter 3: Water 
Use 
Efficiency. 
http://toolbox.calwep.org/wiki/California_Water_Plan_2013_Update_(selections)#tab=Vol__3_Ch__3_-
_Water_Use_Efficiency. 
468 of 599

--- page 469 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-56
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
California Department of Water Resources. 2017. Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life: 
Implementing 
Executive 
Order 
B-37-16. 
https://water.ca.gov/-/media/DWR-Website/Web-
Pages/Programs/Water-Use-And-Efficiency/Make-Water-Conservation-A-California-Way-of-Life/County-
Drought-Planning/Files/Making-Water-Conservation-a-CA-Way-of-Life-EO-B-37-16.pdf.
OR 1 Alternative fuel lawn and gardenoff-road equipment
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20452050
Percent of landscaping equipment that uses electricity
20%
845%
4060%
Percent of other off-road equipment that uses electricity
15%
25%
30%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20452050
Electricity savings (kWh)
0-2,201,600
-892,1404,633,000
-4,460,6806,091,990
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
3,660
2007,130
1,1409,890
GHG Method
The team used data from the California Air Resources Board and the inventory to identify the reduction in direct 
emissions per percent of landscaping equipment and non-landscaping off-road equipment converted to 
electricity traded in. The team then estimated the decrease in gasoline and diesel fuel resulting from this effort 
and used information about energy density to determine the increase in electricity needs. The team estimated 
the GHG increase from greater electricity needs and subtracted this from the emission reduction from decreased 
fuel use to determine the net GHG reduction.
GHG Sources
Alternative Fuels Data Center. 2014. Alternative Fuels Data Center – Fuel Properties Comparison. 
https://afdc.energy.gov/fuels/fuel_comparison_chart.pdf/
California Air Resources Board. 2022. "EMFAC2021 Web Database.".2011. OFFROAD model. 
http://www.arb.ca.gov/msei/categories.htm.
469 of 599

--- page 470 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A1-57
470 of 599

--- page 471 ---
APPENDIX 1 
A1-58
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
This page has no content.
471 of 599

--- page 472 ---
Appendix 2:
CAP Measure Key 
Metrics
This appendix summarizes the items that the City will use to track implementation of the CAP. As part of San 
Mateo’s ongoing CAP monitoring and implementation efforts, the City will track progress on the implementation 
of individual measures. The City will collect specific pieces of data, known as key metrics, for each measure, 
including the planned actions. These key metrics will be used to identify the implementation status of each 
measure. City staff, utility companies, and state and regional agencies collect the key metrics to track CAP 
implementation. Some data may be collected through the Development Checklist in Appendix 3. Specific 
information about the sources of each key metric is given in the monitoring tool. The key metrics are shown in 
Table 21-21. 
472 of 599

--- page 473 ---
APPENDIX 2
2AA-2
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Table 2-1: CAP Measure Key Metrics
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
BE 1
All-electric new 
construction
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of all-electric new 
construction residential housing units.
- Square feet of all-electric new 
construction non-residential 
buildings.
BE 2
All-electric existing 
buildings
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of existing homes with gas 
to electric HVAC conversions.
- Square feet of existing office 
buildings with gas to electric HVAC 
conversions.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
office buildings with EV charging.
RE 1
Peninsula Clean 
Energy
Immediate 
City Manager’s Office
- PCE opt-out rate.
- kWh supplied by ECO 100
RE 2
Renewable energy 
systems for new 
and existing 
residences
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of homes built before 2018 
with solar panels.
- Number of total homes (existing and 
new) with battery energy systems.
RE 3
Renewable energy 
systems for new 
and existing 
nonresidential 
buildings
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of businesses built before 
2018 with solar panels.
- Number of existing businesses with 
battery energy systems.
EE 1
Residential energy 
efficiency retrofits
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of homes retrofitted.
EE 2
Nonresidential 
energy efficiency 
retrofits
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of businesses retrofitted.
473 of 599

--- page 474 ---
CAP MEASURE KEY METRICS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A2-3
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
EE 3
Residential tree 
plantings
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Number of households with shade 
trees.
ME 1
Energy efficiency 
for new municipal 
buildings
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
None – supportive measure.
ME 2
Energy efficiency 
at existing 
municipal 
buildings
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Square footage of retrofitted 
municipal buildings.
ME 3
All-electric 
municipal 
buildings 
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Square feet of existing municipal 
buildings electrified.
- Square feet of new municipal 
buildings electrified.
CF 1
Electric vehicle 
charging 
infrastructure
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Number of parking spaces at new 
nonresidential buildings with EV 
charging.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
nonresidential buildings (not 
including offices) with EV charging.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
multifamily units with EV charging.
CF 2
Electric vehicle 
education and 
outreach
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Estimated number of TNCs operating 
in San Mateo that are EVs.
- Number of residents contacted with 
EV marketing materials.
CF 3
Clean City fleet
Near-term
Public Works
- Fleet EV VMT.
- Fleet biomethane VMT.
CF 4
Clean fuel
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Number of hydrogen vehicles 
registered.
474 of 599

--- page 475 ---
APPENDIX 2
2AA-4
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
ST 1
Bicycle mode 
share
Mid-term
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Total miles of bike lanes.
ST 2
Pedestrian mode 
share
Near-term
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Percent of development in infill 
locationsincrease in pedestrian 
sidewalks and pathways.
ST 3
Micromobility and 
shared mobility
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
None – supportive measure.
ST 4
Public transit 
services
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Bus commute sharenetwork coverage.
- Average Caltrain daily ridershipservice 
frequency.
ST 5
Commuter 
programs
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Pre-2006 businesses participating in 
TDM efforts.
ST 6
Transportation 
Demand 
Management
Immediate
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Service population in new 
development subject to the TDM 
ordinance.
ST 7
Transit-oriented 
development
Near-term
Community 
Development
- New development in TOD zones.
SW 1
Composting 
program
Immediate
Public Works
- Composting participation levels.
SW 2
Expanded 
recycling service
Near-term
Public Works
- Total tons of recyclables recovered.
SW 3
Waste awareness 
and source 
reduction
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Decrease in non-organic and non-
recyclable waste tonnage sent to 
landfills.
WW 1
Water efficiency 
retrofits for 
existing buildings
Mid-term
Public Works
- Number of water efficiency retrofits.
- Number of greywater system 
installations in existing buildings.
475 of 599

--- page 476 ---
CAP MEASURE KEY METRICS
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A2-5
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
WW 2
Water-efficient 
landscaping
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Estimated outdoor water use
WW 3
Water efficiency in 
new construction
Mid-term
Community 
Development 
- Number of new homes with 
greywater systems.
- Number of new businesses with 
greywater systems.
OR 1
Alternative fuel 
lawn and garden 
equipment
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Estimated percent of landscaping 
equipment that uses electricity.
- Estimated percent of non-landscaping 
equipment that uses electricity.
476 of 599

--- page 477 ---
477 of 599

--- page 478 ---
Appendix 3:
CAP Consistency 
Checklist
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project complies 
with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, demonstrating the City’s 
strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 of the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP are eligible for 
streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this checklist for 
informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples of projects 
inconsistent with the City’s forecast include:
•
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
•
General Plan amendments. 
•
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase 
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan 
buildout scenario. 
478 of 599

--- page 479 ---
APPENDIX 3 
3AA-2
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Development Checklist
Project Description Characteristics 
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document).
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)? 
     
2) Identify the applicable land uses:
Residential
Commercial
Industrial
Manufacturing
Other
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed? 
Single-family residences: 
:     
Multi-family residences:
:     
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land use:
     
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans? 
Yes No
If yes, please explain:
     
479 of 599

--- page 480 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A3-3
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area? 
Yes No
If so, which one? _______________
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures. 
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard
Does the Project 
Comply?
Notes & Comments
BE 1: All new development: The project does 
not have natural gas connections, and does not 
have any natural gas appliances or other 
equipment installed
 Yes
 No
 N/A
Additional notes:
     
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the 
minimum requirements of the California State 
Building Code
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, what is the kW potential of the 
renewable energy system? 
     
Additional notes:
     
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, how much electricity does the 
system store?
     
Additional notes:
     
RE 3. All new developments with 
nonresidential space: The project includes an 
on-site renewable energy system that meets or 
exceeds the minimum requirements of the 
California State Building Code
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, what is the kW potential of the 
renewable energy system? 
     
Additional notes:
     
480 of 599

--- page 481 ---
APPENDIX 3 
3AA-4
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard
Does the Project 
Comply?
Notes & Comments
RE 3. All new developments with 
nonresidential space:  The project includes an 
on-site energy storage system, such as a 
battery.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, how much electricity does the 
system store?
     
Additional notes:
     
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees?
     
Additional notes:
     
CF 1. All new development with dedicated 
off-street parking: The project includes 
parking spaces with installed EV chargers or are 
pre-wired for EV chargers, consistent with state 
and any local regulations.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers?
     
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers?
     
Additional notes:
     
CF 1. All new development with dedicated 
off-street parking: The project includes 
parking spaces with installed EV chargers that 
are accessible by members of the public beyond 
those who live and/or work at the project.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public?
     
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible?
     
Additional notes:
     
481 of 599

--- page 482 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A3-5
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard
Does the Project 
Comply?
Notes & Comments
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM 
strategies to comply with the appropriate trip 
reduction target identified in applicable area 
plans and San Mateo Citywide TDM Plan.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project? 
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction 
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets? 
      
Additional notes:
     
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies 
consistent with the targets in relevant area plans 
and the San Mateo Citywide TDM Plan.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project? 
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction 
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets? 
     
Additional notes:
     
ST 7. All new development: Be located along 
El Camino Real, within one-half mile of any 
Caltrain station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit 
Oriented Development or Hillsdale Station Area 
Plan areas.
Yes
 No
 N/A
Additional notes:
     
482 of 599

--- page 483 ---
APPENDIX 3 
3AA-6
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard
Does the Project 
Comply?
Notes & Comments
SW 1. All developments with multifamily 
units or nonresidential space: Provide an area 
of sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs? 
     
Does the project compost on-site? 
     
Additional notes:
     
WW 3. All new development: Include a 
greywater system.
 Yes
 No
 N/A
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system?
     
Additional notes:
     
483 of 599

--- page 484 ---
Appendix 4:
Summary of 
Community Workshop
The City, with support from the PlaceWorks and DNV GL consultant team, hosted a community meeting for the 
Climate Action Plan (CAP) update on Thursday, June 6, 2019, from 6:00 to 8:00 pm at the San Mateo Public 
Library.
The purpose of this workshop was to provide community members with an overview of the 2015 CAP and the 
CAP update process, the results of the new and updated GHG inventory, and the new and revised GHG mitigation 
measures that will be included in the updated CAP. This workshop offered an opportunity to receive feedback 
on the measures and suggest additional reduction measures for the 2020 CAP.
City staff and members of the consultant team facilitated the workshop. Approximately 50 community members 
attended and participated. The workshop included a presentation about the CAP update and a summary of work-
to-date, a question-and-answer period, and an open house that allowed participated to review draft GHG 
reduction measures, provide input, and engage with staff, consultants, and other community members. 
Community members reviewed the proposed measures by placing colored dots next to each measure: green for 
measures they supported, yellow for measures they supported with some reservations or concerns, and red for 
measures they did not support.
Commented [TS10]:  Update headers in this section to 
match appendix title.
484 of 599

--- page 485 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-2
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
The following results are organized by poster topic and present the number and type of dots for each measure 
(green, yellow, or red) and any open comments received on sticky notes and easel pads. No comment cards were 
submitted during the meeting, although some additional comments were submitted later via email.
BOARD 1: RENEWABLE ENERGY
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Continue to support Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) and 
encourage residents and businesses not already participating in PCE, 
especially large energy users, to join.
17
1
0
Measure 2: Continue promoting renewable energy systems for new homes 
and businesses with education and incentives.
12
2
0
Measure 3: Continue to encourage property owners to install renewable 
energy systems on existing homes and businesses.
12
2
0
Measure 4: Renew San Mateo’s requirement for new buildings to include 
solar panels, going beyond state requirements.
11
2
1
Measure 5: Promote battery storage systems as a part of renewable energy 
installations.
8
6
0
Measure 6: Set up microgrid demonstration projects.
5
5
1
Renewable Energy Open Comments
Measure 4: We need a way to store power from PV to use at night, check out Sandford’s [sic] Central Energy 
Facility’s thermal storage/heat recovery. 
Measure 4: More infill to reduce VMT.
Measure 6: There are a lot of bigger things we can do. 
Measure 5: Batteries – What level of support will this provide? For whom? How rapidly will today’s batteries 
become obsolete if the technology is evolving rapidly?
Will microgrid demonstration have a significant impact?
485 of 599

--- page 486 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-3
On/Off grid solar installs - reduce fees if install option to supply power when PCE down to house/buildings. 
486 of 599

--- page 487 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-4
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
BOARD 2: ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Continue to provide education about energy efficiency retrofits 
to residents and businesses, including information about financing.
9
2
1
Measure 2: Provide incentives for energy efficiency retrofits.
11
1
0
Measure 3: Establish a program to require home energy assessments at 
the time of sale.
12
2
0
Measure 4: Provide incentives for all-electric new construction.
7
1
0
Measure 5: Encourage upgrades to existing buildings to support all-
electric operations.
9
0
0
Measure 6: New municipal buildings and facilities will be all-electric or will 
use alternative fuels.
9
1
0
Measure 7: Establish a commercial and multi-family energy conservation 
benchmarking program and offer low- or no-cost energy audits to rental 
properties and business.
11
0
0
Measure 8: Continue to conduct energy efficiency retrofits for existing 
municipal buildings.
7
0
0
Energy Efficiency and Conservation Open Comments
Require Net Zero on existing homes. 
Cut energy use everywhere else in the US that is hotter and/or colder than San Mateo: urban infill. 
Urge people to wear sweaters etc.
Incentivize cleaner emission leaf blowers (continuing the work sustainability commission started in 2018 then 
halted).
Make a contest, who can reduce their emissions? Or compare vs. an average. 
Require by law, plus shift housing to the public sector. 
Commented [AC11]:  Wrong header on a few of these last 
pages
Commented [LW12R12]:  Note for formatting team. Please 
adjust. 
487 of 599

--- page 488 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-5
Prioritize PCE 100 – how does it compare to home retrofits?
Ban military recruiters so our citizens don’t participate in the world’s worst institutional emitter: the US military. 
Incentivize won’t save us. If we want to stop Armageddon, we must require sustainable to its fullest extent, right 
now! 
BOARD 3: ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Expand the public shuttle system in San Mateo, including using 
microtransit to provide first-mile and last-mile connections.
23
0
0
Measure 2: Continue to support reduction of commuter-related vehicle 
trips through the City’s Transportation Demand Management program 
and other employer-focused programs.
11
1
0
Measure 3: Expand carpool options for San Mateo residents and 
commuters.
3
4
1
Measure 4: Implement the Bicycle Master Plan and continue to support 
additional shared mobility options.
22
0
1
Measure 5: Continue to make walking a safe and easy way to get around 
San Mateo.
27
0
0
Measure 6: Increase transit-oriented developments along El Camino Real 
and near Caltrain stations.
22
3
0
Measure 7: Support new rapid bus transit routes.
14
1
0
Measure 8: Improve the frequency of Caltrain services, particularly to the 
Hayward Park station.
17
1
0
Alternative Transportation Open Comments
Increase penalty for stealing bicycles. 
Encourage mixed-use development to reduce SOV. 
488 of 599

--- page 489 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-6
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Close B Street to car traffic and institute shuttle to encourage less driving in City core. 
Help change mindset of Peninsula re: BART/Bus Service.
Spend more on GHG Reduction than road maintenance and more truck free roads (weight and potholes) and 
more car free walking streets.
Eliminate traffic deaths for pedestrians and bicyclists with Vision Zero. New York City is good example. 
Sierra Club recommends dividend account parking. 
San Mateo needs to be much more bike friendly. 1) more dedicated lanes, 2) lights triggered by bike, 3) Require 
businesses like Safeway to have bike racks. (1 green)
Citywide mobility targets: Portland does it with target mode share (1 green)
Increase buses and vans use. Incentivize use, increases status of transit use. 
More east-west transit opportunities shuttles, scooter, etc.!
Increase bike boulevards and bike infrastructure.
Work from home!!
Need bus-only lanes and transit signal priority. (2 greens)
Bike Streets work North/South (Claremont, Edinburg, Flores).
Create bus routes that allow access to natural public spaces like Laurelwood park and Purisima Creek. This will 
create love for nature and drive action. 
Ridesharing kills public transit, congest streets, and abuses workers. The City must impose a heavy cap on Uber 
& Lyft vehicles to save our streets. 
Light intersections that are triggered by bikes. 
Educate residents and visitors on their impacts while driving. 
What can the City do to reduce people idling in their cars? (1 green)
489 of 599

--- page 490 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-7
Affordable housing = reduced GHGs (2 greens)
Fewer cars, more public transit! Increased frequency in bus service, other non-car modes. 
Affordable housing for workers = fewer trip = lower GHG where is housing in the CAP?
Change the topic/sector name – alternative to what?
BOARD 4: ALTERNATIVE FUELS
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Require all new buildings to have EV charging infrastructure.
15
5
0
Measure 2: Continue to encourage EV charging infrastructure in existing 
homes and businesses.
8
0
1
Measure 3: Continue to install EV charging infrastructure in public parking 
lots and garages.
17
0
1
Measure 4: Transition San Mateo’s municipal fleet to electric and other 
clean-energy vehicles.
15
1
0
Measure 5: Continue to educate community members about the 
availability of hybrid and clean-fuel landscaping equipment.
13
4
4
Measure 6: Buy hybrid and clean-fuel landscaping equipment for 
municipal use as options are available.
11
0
0
Alternative Fuels Open Comments
Measure 3: Battery Ready
Measure 5: Very low hanging fruit compared to something as important as diet, which is not even mentioned 
so far. Topic 4, Measure 5
Measure 5: Start with large properties like churches, help them through issues like extension cord length limits 
(if they exist).
490 of 599

--- page 491 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-8
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Measure 5: Go beyond education. Need a competitive “green yard” program for homeowners. Need to 
incentivize or network commercial properties and churches to transitions them ASAP. The landowners already 
have equipment for Menlo Park and Atherton!
Measure 5: Ordinance to restrict gas landscape equipment.
EVs are great but often not affordable could there be financial incentives and subsidy? 
More community charging stations are needed. Will Measure 1 create charging stations that can be shared by 
the public? Even by registering them with the building or something?
Measure 2: Provide incentives!!
Measure 5: This will work as well as abstinence-only sex ED
Biodiesel incentives? Can reduce net carbon emissions and use waste oil. 
You always mention El. Cars = No!!! Go hydrogen!
Change the topic/sector name – alternative to what? 
BOARD 5: SOLID WASTE
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Continue to expand San Mateo’s composting 
program to businesses and multi-family homes.
25
0
0
Measure 2: Accept new types of materials in recycling bins as 
economics allow.
8
5
0
Measure 3: Create a materials reuse program and educate 
community members about ways to make unwanted items 
available for reuse.
11
2
1
Measure 4: Explore a ban on single-use plastics.
22
6 (Do it! Just do it!)
0
Measure 5: Work with waste haulers to reduce contamination of 
recyclables.
12
1
0
491 of 599

--- page 492 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-9
Solid Waste Open Comments
Multi-family composting opportunities are a must!! You can also put the collection points in parks and around 
the community!
If composting in multi-family units is problematic, at least offer compost drop off points through the City!
Recycling info keeps changing. We need way better educations. 
Create a mass distribution program for reusable bottle, paid for through business tax hikes.
My condo association will be charged if we get composting so we don’t compost.
Solid waste = 3% of the GHG. These programs are good but please do not use a lot of $$. 
More guidance is needed about good vs. poor recycling habits. (what plastics are good)
Be able to recycle black plastic or don’t allow it to be used. (1 green)
I wish we could get more compost delivered to our houses. 
Biweekly recycling and garbage pickup instead of weekly? Other cities have tried this. Since San 
Francisco/Recology has one of the best recycling/zero waste programs in the USA, why not excel at it here in San 
Mateo! If pickups were fewer, folks might be motivated (or forced) to decrease their waste. Fewer pickups also 
means less fuel/energy wasted by the trucks.
Tax consumers for clamshells in packaging – like plastic bags.
Measure 4: reusable bags require more energy to produce… causing more production.
Stop selling chemicals – pass an ordinance. 
People are either uneducated or lazy/noncompliant RE putting items in the correct bins. Adding different/more 
bins won’t work because of this. (2 greens)
Work with Trader Joes, Safeway, etc. to reduce clamshell packaging.
New accurate recycle bin labels for everyone.
492 of 599

--- page 493 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-10
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Offer better rates for very low trash creation. Smaller waste cans? Alternate week collection?
Reduce uses at the source, require take back of packaging (3 greens)
Be able to recycle plastic bags that have the recycle symbol. 
Encourage reduce purchases consumption. (1 green)
Encourage stores like Costco to put (business + social) pressure on their venders to use recyclable packaging 
(not plastics). When venders figure out recyclable packaging, they should let their customers know about the 
efforts they have made to solve a problem that affects everyone. Mae it a win-win-win situation. 
493 of 599

--- page 494 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-11
BOARD 6: WATER AND WASTEWATER
Measure
Greens
Yellows
Reds
Measure 1: Continue to work with water providers and regional 
agencies to encourage water-efficient retrofits of existing buildings.
21
2
0
Measure 2: Require new developments to meet higher water 
efficiency standards.
19
1
0
Water and Wastewater Open Comments
The current CAP should be renamed “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Plan”
The CAP should include water and waste conservation, recycle, reduction mechanisms. (1 green)
Green lawn/yard competition among homeowners.
We need a water committee to implement best practices. 
Is there local support for existing greywater systems?
I wish that there was information to have domestic greywater. (Help in putting it in) (5 greens)
Recycle water from treatment plant. (4 greens)
Can the City investigate rainwater collection for use by City and residents?
Are there incentives for lawn replacement/xeriscaping/use of native landscaping?
Lawns are a huge source of water use. They should be abolished!
Large lots and sprawl leads to wasted water for irrigation. 
Ban green lawns. (1 green, 1 yellow)
Provide realistic incentives for homeowners to get rid of lawns. Too expensive right now. (1 green)
Can the wastewater treatment plant be run on a schedule that helps address duck curve?
494 of 599

--- page 495 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-12
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Educate people with sprinklers to not water the sidewalks!
Looks like real problem is behavior of individual’s free will.
Follow best practices from more arid places (landscaping water, recycle water, flow meters on faucets, fix leaks)
Eliminate garbage disposals in new construction and retrofits. 
Incentivize water reuse, especially in new development and public buildings (Use SFPUC model). (1 green).
Adopt better water demand management, including conservation, like SFPUC’s programs. Reduce outdoor 
irrigation by 70%.
Aim for 5% reduced imported water by 2024. 
BOARD 7: WHAT’S YOUR BIG IDEA?
Open comments
Plant more trees.
Plant trees and gardens, every $1 in trees returns $2.5 in value to the community. California Billion Tree Initiative. 
(10 greens)
Build housing here and plant trees elsewhere. (1 green)
Increase the urban tree canopy where possible. (2 greens)
Do not allow wood burnings in fireplaces or building FP in new buildings. (1 green)
Explore rainwater collection for use by city and residents.
To reduce traffic and auto emissions on Hillsdale Ave, employ The Boring Company to put a tunnel under 
Hillsdale Avenue (2 greens, 5 reds)
Local public free telecommuting centers, reduce VMTs from commuters, keep people and money in San Mateo. 
Affordable housing reduced worker trips where is that in CAP? (1 green)
495 of 599

--- page 496 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-13
More communication/educations on climate change and CO2 emissions.
Allow for micro units and affordable housing.
Don’t let people cut and trim existing trees and shrubs for view. 
Require more from residents (instead of “encourage”). (2 greens)
Bring back recycling stations at Safeway.
The US Military is one of the largest institutional GHG emitters worldwide. Ban military recruiters from San Mateo 
and stop the rolling war machine in our City.
Include a program for carbon sequestration and offsets. 
Ban leaf blowers and gas-powered landscape equipment. (3 greens, 1 red) 
•
Need a way to transition this would hurt all the gardeners. 
No Amazon infrastructure in San Mateo.
Annual reporting of GHG: Mountain View does this and allocates $10k/year. Sectors can be adjusted for 
compliance. 
Promote the local “I heart rakes and brooms” campaign.
Send a link to all San Mateo residents that helps them calculate their carbon footprint. 
Encourage competition among homeowners to use electric lawn equipment to “lose your lawn”, to practice 
permaculture/plant native plants/use IPM methods. Create a City competition!
Determine San Mateo’s “earth overshoot” day to raise awareness.
Public housing for all! (With solar panels) (1 green)
City government should fund clothing and farming co-ops in our community to reduce reliance on global trade.
Encourage cooperative businesses (worker owned). Expansion isn’t profit seeking drive our crisis and must stop. 
Please design new housing near transit centers to have at most car space. Maybe happening already. 
496 of 599

--- page 497 ---
WORKS CITEDAPPENDIX 4
4A-14
City of San Mateo
October July 202319
Count on per capita basis and not a total basis. 
To avoid 2 degree C temperature rise, there must be a robust system of carbon capture by 2030! (1 green)
Raise the height limit on buildings. (5 greens)
Take advantage of our volunteer hours needed by master composter participants – 40 hours each.
Urban infill: UC Berkeley rates urban infill in the City of San Mateo #1 among all rated measures visit: 
coolclimate.berkeley.edu/ca-scenarios/index.html. (2 greens)
When we add jobs but not housing, we should count 100% of those commute emissions. 
Make GHG’s info public => competitions in neighborhoods to retrofit/reduce fossil energy use? Smart Meters?
Charge new businesses setting up shop in San Mateo a “sustainability” tax to fund all these projects. (1 green)
Pedestrian overpass at Hillsdale/Highway 101. (3 greens)
More density causes miserable traffic. (1 red)
San Mateo to provide water barrels at cost and volunteer installers too much water is lost. 
According to many studies, reaching greenhouse reduction goals without the world adapting a plant-based diet 
is impossible. Many people in San Mateo are not aware that they can contribute greatly to GHG lowering by 
modifying their diet. San Mateo should encourage diet change. (3 greens, 1 red)
Increased densities in SFH and transit-oriented areas. Infill housing helps to reduce VMTs. (3 greens)
Implement UN Agenda 21. 
Please ban leaf blowers!! Exhaust + PM in the air! (1 green)
Encourage infill development instead of greenfield development. 
Figure how to encourage plant-based diet education? (w/ groceries, schools, etc.) Taxes on meat? Don’t’ just say 
we have no control over that. (2 greens)
Meatless Monday or eating 1x per day instead of twice. Could this be worked into schools or civic buildings?
497 of 599

--- page 498 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLISTSUMMARY OF 
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
April July 20230
2020 Climate Action Plan
A4-15
Composting toilets save water, reduce methane, turn waste into resources. Make legal, they don’t stink!
To reduce commutes and traffic, subsidize ADUs in neighborhoods w/ larger lots, houses, and parking available. 
(1 green)
Way more outreach to non-English speakers. (1 green)
Make sure to do outreach to non-English speakers and people not on City email lists. 
MISCELLANEOUS COMMENTS
Clarifications on process of accounting GHGs, timeline, state vs local actions.
Solar panels – why need in light of PCE? What about city buildings.
Cement emissions- embedded emissions of development.
Data – on implementation measures for example – cool climate Berkeley .edu – consumption based calcs – 
concerns on highest impact including embedded emissions (infill as example).
498 of 599

--- page 499 ---
APPENDIX 4
April July 20232020
2020 Climate Action Plan
4-16
499 of 599

--- page 500 ---
ATTACHMENT 3: CLIMATE ACTION PLAN TABLES - REDLINES
500 of 599

--- page 501 ---
CHAPTER 2
2
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Table ES-1:Reductions from Existing and Planned Accomplishments
20202030
20302040
20502045
Forecasted Emissions
559605,420 
MTCO2e
(5.1 MTCO2e per-
capita)
618,670696,810 
MTCO2e
(5.0 MTCO2e per-
capita)
667,470750,400 
MTCO2e
(4.6 MTCO2e per-
capita)
Reductions from State existing and planned 
accomplishments
-24,08072,900 
MTCO2e
(-0.2 MTCO2e per-
capita)
-107,780147,970 
MTCO2e
(-0.9 MTCO2e per-
capita)
-194,570196,140 
MTCO2e 
(-1.4 MTCO2e per-
capita)
Reductions from local and regional existing 
and planned accomplishments 
-23,700980 
MTCO2e
(-0.2 MTCO2e per-
capita)
-32,47018,360 
MTCO2e
(-0.3 MTCO2e per-
capita)
-4,120950 
MTCO2e
(Less than -0.1 
MTCO2e per-
capita)
Emissions with existing and planned 
accomplishments
511,640508,380 
MTCO2e
(4.7 MTCO2e per-
capita)
478,350530,510 
MTCO2e
(3.9 MTCO2e per-
capita)
468,720549,320 
MTCO2e
(3.3 MTCO2e per-
capita)
501 of 599

--- page 502 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
3
Table ES-2:Reductions by Measure
Measure
20202030
20302040
20502045
BE 1: All-electric new construction
-88021,070
-4,64038,450
-7,42047,250
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
-620102,210
-
13,950184,610
-
85,960221,260
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
-380160
-1,060170
0
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
residences
-6070
-170160
0
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
nonresidential buildings
-1060
-7090
0
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
-4106,160
-6,0307,020
-17,8606,790
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-8403,800
-9,9308,860
-17,04013,380
EE 3: Resdential tree planting
-<Less than -
10
-<Less than -
10
-<100
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
-<-10
-2030
-7040
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings 
0-130
-110200
-210270
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-2,65024,420
-29,63049,390
-71,15069,780
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
-9804,910
-17,0508,030
-17,12012,360
CF 3: Clean city fleet
-30130
-170200
-420270
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
-204,210
-3,13016,920
-7,00026,360
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
-4080
-240170
-670180
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
-390110
-760120
-1,110130
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ST 4: Public transit service
-8303,610
-9,1305660
-25,1106,910
ST 5: Commuter programs
0Less than -
10
-13070
-3,420160
502 of 599

--- page 503 ---
CHAPTER 2
4
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Measure
20202030
20302040
20502045
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
-602,010
-2,3307,950
-8,46013,410
ST 7: Transit-oriented development
-16010,200
-99018,920
-2,37023,700
SW 1: Composting program
-9501,030
-12,6501,710
-141,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
-8106,070
-5,3607,730
-8,530820
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
-4202,080
-1,9104,050
-5,510590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
-20170
-100300
-230360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
-<Less than -
10
-<-10
0
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
0Less than -
10
-<-10
-1020
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment
0-3,660
-2007,130
-1,1409,890
Total
-
10,560196,36
0
-
119,760367,9
60
-
295,660468,7
80
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
503 of 599

--- page 504 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
5
Table 1: California Climate Change Impacts
Climate Impact
Historical Trends
Future Direction 
of Change
Confidence for 
Future Change
Temperature
Warming
Warming
Very High
Sea Level Rise
Rising
Rising
Very High
Snowpack
Declining
Declining
Very High
Annual Precipitation
No Significant Trends
Unknown
Low
Intensity of Heavy Precipitation Events
No Significant Trends
Increasing
Medium-High
Frequency of Droughts
No Significant Trends
Increasing
Medium-High
Frequency and Intensity of Santa Ana 
Winds
No Significant Trends
Unknown
Low
Marine Layer Clouds
Some Downward 
Trends
Unknown
Low
Acres Burned by Wildfire
Increasing
Increasing
Medium-High
Source: Bedsworth, Louise, Dan Cayan, Guido Franco, Leah Fisher, Sonya Ziaja. (California Governor’s Office of Planning and 
Research, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, California Energy Commission, California Public Utilities Commission). 2018. 
Statewide Summary Report. California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment. Publication number: SUMCCCA4-2018-013.
Table 2: San Mateo Population (2005 – 20172019)
Indicator
2005
Value
2010
Value
2015
Value
2017
Value
2019 
Value
PercentPerce
ntage 
Change, 
2005–
20172019
Source
Population
93,400
97,110
101,610
103,470
11%104,5
99
12%
CA Dept. of 
Finance, ABAG 
Table 3: San Mateo 2005 Community-Wide GHG Emissions
Sector
MTCO2e (Absolute)
Percentage
On-road transportation
282,380370 
3.0242%
504 of 599

--- page 505 ---
CHAPTER 2
6
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Commercial/industrial built 
environment
169,000 141,960
1.5225%
Residential built environment
136,680163,770 
1.4625%
Off-road equipment
55,770
0.60
8%
Solid waste generation
22,180 
3%
Point sourcesOff-road equipment
15,900 7,390
0.082%
Landfill
7,370 
1%
Rail
4,350 
1%
Water and wastewater
2,520 
0.03%
Land use and sequestration
-1,050
-1%
Total
660,600666,410 
100%
Informational Items
Point sources
7,390 
1%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
505 of 599

--- page 506 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
7
Table 4: San Mateo 2005-2017 2019 Community-Wide Emissions (Absolute)
Sector
2005 
(MTCO2e)
2010 
(MTCO2e)
2015 
(MTCO2e)
2017 
(MTCO2e)
2019 
(MTCO2
e)
PercentPerce
ntage 
Change, 
2005 to 
20172019
On-road 
transportation
282,380370 
287,540550
280,560570
269,100110
-
5%276,5
60 
-2%
Commercial/in
dustrial built 
environment
141,960169,0
00 
131,610151,20
0
119,500137,35
0
85,840101,7
20
-
40%83,6
60 
-50%
Residential 
built 
environment
136,680163,7
70 
136,590165,80
0
109,190131,66
0
97,730118,9
80
-
28%114,
630 
-30%
Off-road 
equipment
55,77015,900 
53,68017,840
41,47014,960
45,04014,94
0
-
19%14,4
00 
-9%
Solid waste 
generation
22,180 
16,580
15,850860
17,890
-
19%21,9
10 
-1%
Point sources
7,390
7,390
11,6
10
14,230
93%
Landfill
7,370 
6,670
6,030
5,800
-
21%4,18
0 
-43%
Rail
4,350 
4,480
4,400410
4,520
4%,440 
2%
Water and 
wastewater
2,520 
2,370380
2,220
1,800810
-
29%1,67
0 
-34%
Land use and 
sequestration
-1050
-1,050
-1,050
-1,040
-1040
-1%
Total
660,600666,4
10 
646,920651,4
50 
590,850592,0
10 
541,960533
,730 
-
18%520,
410 
-22%
506 of 599

--- page 507 ---
CHAPTER 2
8
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Sector
2005 
(MTCO2e)
2010 
(MTCO2e)
2015 
(MTCO2e)
2017 
(MTCO2e)
2019 
(MTCO2
e)
PercentPerce
ntage 
Change, 
2005 to 
20172019
Informational Item
Point sources
7,390
7,39
0
11,610
14,2
30
18,090
145
%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Table 5: San Mateo 2005-2017 Community-Wide Emissions (Per-Capita)
Sector
2005 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2010 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2015 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
2017 
(MTCO2e 
per-
capita)
Percent 
Change, 
2005 to 
2017 *
On-road transportation
3.02
2.96
2.76
2.60
-14%
Commercial/industrial built environment
1.52
1.35
1.18
0.83
-45%
Residential built environment
1.46
1.41
1.07
0.94
-35%
Off-road equipment
0.60
0.55
0.41
0.44
-27%
Solid waste generation
0.24
0.17
0.16
0.17
-27%
Point sources
0.08
0.76
0.11
0.14
74%
Landfill
0.08
0.07
0.06
0.06
-29%
Rail
0.05
0.05
0.04
0.04
-6%
Water and wastewater
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.02
-36%
Total
7.1
6.7
5.8
5.2
-26%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Figure 1: 
Table 5: San Mateo 2005 and 2019 Community Emissions (Per-Capita)
2005
2019
MTCO2e per-capita
7.14
4.98
507 of 599

--- page 508 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
9
Table 6: San Mateo 2017, 20202019, 2030, 2040, and 20502045 Growth Indicators
Indicator
20172019
Value
20202030
Value
20302040
Value
2050 2045 
Value
PercentPercenta
ge Change, 
2005–2050
2019–2045
PopulationHousehol
ds
38,950104,599
43,040129,210
48,180156,585
53,630172,370
3865%
HouseholdsJobs
63,20039,771
62,57049,260
59,843
65,960
66,510%
JobsPopulation
103,47061,232
109,67069,400
123,20077,760
143,60082,310
3934%
Service population1
166,670165,83
1
172,240198,61
0
189,710234,34
5
213,140254,68
0
2854%
1 Service population is the sum of the residential population and the number of jobs.
508 of 599

--- page 509 ---
CHAPTER 2
10
City of San Mateo
May 2023
San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals (Absolute)
Sector
2017 2019 
(MTCO2e)
20202030 
(MTCO2e)
20302040 
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
(MTCO2e)
Percentage 
Change, 
2017–
20502019–
2045
On-road transportation
269,100276,5
60
295,560308,
930
329,970351,
730
366,190375,
310
36%
Commercial/industrial built 
environment
85,84083,660
80,42093,71
0
85,050104,0
10
88109,610
331%
Residential built environment
97,730114,63
0
141,960101,
270
113,360172,
460
126,190,110
2966%
Off-road equipment
45,04014,400
37,47023,77
0
44,10026,62
0
38,42030,36
0
-15111%
Solid waste generation
17,89021,910
18,49026,24
0
20,36030,96
0
22,88033,65
0
2854%
Point sources
14,230
14,230
14,230
14,230
0%
Landfill
5,8004,180
5,4604,470
4,4703,660
3,000310
-4821%
Rail
4,520440
4,6605,220
56,080
5,6506,560
2548%
Water and wastewater
1,800670
1,860990
2,050340
2,300540
2853%
Land use and sequestration
-1,040
-1,050
-1,050
-1,050
0%
Total
541,960520,
400
559,42060
5,240
618,67069
6,810
667,47075
0,400
2344%
Percentage Change from 2005
-22%
3-9%
145%
2313%
Informational Item
Point sources
18,090
18,090
18,090
18,090
0%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
509 of 599

--- page 510 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
11
Table 7: San Mateo Community-Wide BAU GHG Emissions Sector Totals (Per-Capita)
Sector
2017 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2020 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2030 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
2050 (MTCO2e 
per-capita)
Percentage 
Change, 
2017–2050
On-road 
transportation
2.60
2.69
2.68
2.55
-2%
Commercial/industrial 
built environment
0.83
0.73
0.69
0.62
-26%
Residential built 
environment
0.94
0.92
0.92
0.87
-7%
Off-road equipment
0.44
0.34
0.36
0.28
-39%
Solid waste generation
0.17
0.17
0.17
0.16
-8%
Point sources
0.14
0.13
0.12
0.10
-28%
Landfill
0.06
0.05
0.04
0.02
-63%
Rail
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
-10%
Water and wastewater
0.02
0.01
002
0.02
-8%
Total
5.2
5.1
5.0
4.6
-11%
Percentage Change 
from 2005
-26%
-28%
-29%
-34%
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
510 of 599

--- page 511 ---
CHAPTER 2
12
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Table 8: Calculation Process for State-Recommended Targets
2030
2050
1990 emissions level
431 million MTCO2e
431 million MTCO2e
Emissions target
260 million MTCO2e 
(established in Scoping Plan)
86 million MTCO2e (estimated, 
80 percent below 431 million 
MTCO2e)
Statewide population projection
43,939,250
49,077,801
Target per-capita (direct calculation)
5.9 MTCO2e per-capita
1.8 MTCO2e per-capita
Target per-capita (set in Scoping 
Plan)
6.0 MTCO2e per-capita
2.0 MTCO2e per-capita
Table 9: Calculation Process for Per-Capita Targets
2030
2050
Projected emissions with inapplicable sectors removed 
*
190.7 million MTCO2e 
†
57 million MTCO2e ‡
Statewide population projection
43,939,250
49,077,801
Per-capita target
4.3 MTCO2e per-capita 
1.2 MTCO2e per-capita
* The inapplicable sectors are Industrial, Oil and Gas Extraction, Petroleum Refining, Agriculture, and Non-Energy GHGs (e.g. 
refrigerants and emissions from cement production).
† From the State’s 2030 Scoping Plan Pathways scenario.
‡ Estimated by reducing all sectors of the State’s 1990 emissions inventory by 80 percent, consistent with the 2050 statewide 
goal.
511 of 599

--- page 512 ---
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES, 
FORECASTFORECASTS, AND REDUCTION TARGETS
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
13
Table 10:San Mateo CAP Emission Targets (2020 – 2050)
2020
2030
2050
Absolute (MTCO2e)
561,510
529,760
172,310
Per-capita (MTCO2e per-capita)
5.1
4.3
1.2
512 of 599

--- page 513 ---
CHAPTER 4
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan14
14City of San Mateo
May 2023
Table 11:Table 7:San Mateo Emissions with 2020 CAP Implementation (2020 – 20502030 – 2045)
2020
2030
20502045
Projected Emission level
501,110311,990 MTCO2e
(4.6 MTCO2e per-capita)
358,61080,550 MTCO2e
(2.9 MTCO2e per-capita)
173,080 MTCO2e
(1.2 MTCO2e per-capita)
Target
561,510339,880 MTCO2e
4.384,970 MTCO2e per-
capita
1.2 MTCO2e per-capita
Target achieved?
Yes
Yes
Yes
Gap to target
-60,40027,890 MTCO2e
-1.4,420 MTCO2e per-
capita
0 MTCO2e per-capita
513 of 599

--- page 514 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
15May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202015
Table 12:Table 8: Reductions from CAP Measures (2020 – 20502030 – 2045)
Measure
20302020
20402030
20502045
BE 1: All-electric new construction
-88021,070
-4,64038,450
-7,42047,250
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
-620102,210
-13,950184,610
-85,960221,260
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
-380160
-1,060170
-0
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
residences
-6070
-170160
-0
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing 
nonresidential buildings
-1060
-7090
-0
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
-4106,160
-6,0307,020
-17,8606,790
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-8403,800
-9,9308,860
-17,04013,380
EE 3: Residential tree planting
-<Less than -10
-<Less than -10
-<Less than-10
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
-010
-2030
-7040
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings
-0130
-110200
-210270
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-2,65024,420
-29,63049,390
-71,15069,780
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
-9804,910
-17,0508,030
-17,12012,360
CF 3: Clean city fleet
-30130
-170200
-420270
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
-204,210
-3,13016,920
-7,00026,360
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
-4080
-240170
-670180
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
-390110
-760120
-1,110130
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive (no measurable GHG reductions)
ST 4: Public transit service
-8303,610
-9,1305,660
-25,1106,910
ST 5: Commuter programs
0Less than -10
-13070
-3,420160
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
-602,010
-2,3307,950
-8,46013,410
ST 7: Transit-oriented development
-16010,200
-99018,920
-2,37023,700
514 of 599

--- page 515 ---
CHAPTER 4
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan16
16City of San Mateo
May 2023
Measure
20302020
20402030
20502045
SW 1: Composting program
-9501,030
-12,6501,710
-141,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
-8106,070
-5,3607,730
-8,530820
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
-4202,080
-1,9104,050
-5,510590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
-20170
-100300
-230360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
-<Less than -10
-<-10
0
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
0Less than -10
-<-10
-1020
OR 1: Alternative fuel lawn and garden equipment
0-3,660
-2007,130
-1,1409,890
Total
-
10,560196,360
-
119,760367,96
0
-
295,660468,78
0
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Table 13:Table 9:San Mateo Community-Wide GHG Emissions Reductions from State Programs
Policy
20202030 
Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
20302040 
Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
Forecasted emissions 
559,420605,240
618,670696,810
667,470750,400
Clean Car Standards 1
-20,05055,030
-91,85095,730
-130,530109,680
Renewables Portfolio Standard
-2804,720
-5,38015,330
-46,30039,860
Title 24
-9809,380
-7,26032,480
-14,67041,790
Local Carbon Fuel Standard 2SB 1383
-2,7703,760
3,260-4,430
-2,8504,820
Innovative Clean Transit
-0
-30
-220
Total reductions from existing State programs
-24,08072,890
-107,780147,970
-194,570196,150
Emissions with existing State programs
535532,340
510,880548,840
472,900554,260
1: Includes reductions from the Low Carbon Fuel Standard for transportation fuels
2: Reductions from off-road equipment fuel only.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
515 of 599

--- page 516 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
17May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202017
Table 14:Table 10:Emissions Reductions from Local and Regional Programs
Policy
20202030 GHG Emissions
(MTCO2e)
20402030 GHG 
Emissions
(MTCO2e)
20502045 GHG Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
Emissions with 
Existing State 
Programs
535532,340
510,880548,840
472,900554,260
Peninsula Clean 
Energy
-19,81020,000
-28,73013,750
0
Energy efficiency 
retrofits
-5030
-30
-30
Solar energy 
installations
-10020
-10
0
Caltrain 
shuttlesMunicipal 
energy retrofits
-20160
-10160
-10160
Electric vehicle adoption
-3,420
0
0
Public access EV 
chargers
-300
-300
-300
Transportation 
Demand 
Management
-270220
-210200
-180190
Caltrain 
electrification 
(planned)
0-3,560
-3,4504,200
-3,8804,560
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program (planned)
0
-60
-60
Total reductions 
from existing and 
planned local 
and regional 
programs
-23,700990
-32,47018,330
-4,120940
516 of 599

--- page 517 ---
CHAPTER 4
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan18
18City of San Mateo
May 2023
Policy
20202030 GHG Emissions
(MTCO2e)
20402030 GHG 
Emissions
(MTCO2e)
20502045 GHG Emissions 
(MTCO2e)
Emissions with 
existing and 
planned local 
and regional 
programs
511,640508,380
478,350530,510
468,720549,320
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts. 
Table 15:Table 11:Emissions with Existing and Planned Efforts
Policy
20202030
20402030
20502045
2005 (baseline) emissions (MTCO2e)
660,600666,430
660,600666,430
660,600666,430
Emissions with existing and planned programs 
(MTCO2e)
511,640508,380
478,350
(3.9 MTCO2e 
per-
capita)530,510
468,720
(3.3 MTCO2e 
per-
capita)549,320
Percent below baseline emissions
-2324%
-2820%
-2918%
BE 1: All-electric new construction
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
88021,070
4,64038,450
7,42047,250
BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
620102,210
13,950184,610
85,960221,260
517 of 599

--- page 518 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
19May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202019
RE 1: Peninsula Clean Energy
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
380160
1,060170
0
RE 2: Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
6070
170160
0
RE 3: Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
1060
7090
0
EE 1: Residential energy efficiency retrofits
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
4106,160
6,0307,020
17,8606,790
EE 2: Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
8403,800
9,9308,860
17,04013,380
EE 3: Residential tree planting
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 100
ME 1: Energy efficiency for new municipal buildings
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
518 of 599

--- page 519 ---
CHAPTER 4
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan20
20City of San Mateo
May 2023
ME 2: Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
010
2030
7040
ME 3: All-electric municipal buildings 
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
0130
110200
210270
CF 1: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
2,65024,420
29,63049,390
71,15069,780
CF 2: Electric vehicle education and outreach
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
9804,910
17,0508,030
17,12012,360
CF 3: Clean City fleet
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
30130
170200
420270
CF 4: Clean fuel and vehicle emissions
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
204,210
3,13016,920
7,00026,360
ST 1: Bicycle mode share
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
4080
240170
670180
519 of 599

--- page 520 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
21May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202021
ST 2: Pedestrian mode share
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
390110
760120
1,110130
ST 3: Micromobility and shared mobility
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
ST 4: Public transit service
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
8303,610
9,1305,660
25,1106,910
ST 5: Commuter programs
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
0Less than 10
13070
3,420160
ST 6: Transportation Demand Management
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
602,010
2,3307,950
8,46013,410
ST 7: Transit-oriented developments
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
16010,200
99018,920
2,37023,700
520 of 599

--- page 521 ---
CHAPTER 4
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan22
22City of San Mateo
May 2023
SW 1: Composting program
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
9501,030
12,6501,710
141,850
SW 2: Expanded recycling service
2020203
20302040
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
6,070810
7,7305,360
8,8208,530
SW 3: Waste awareness and source reduction
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
4202,080
1,9104,050
5,510590
WW 1: Water efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
20170
100300
230360
WW 2: Water-efficient landscaping
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 100
WW 3: Water efficiency in new construction
20302020
20302040
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
0Less than 10
Less than 10
1020
OR 1: Clean fuel lawn and garden equipment
20302020
20402030
20502045
GHG reduction (MTCO2e)
03,660
2007,130
1,1409,890
521 of 599

--- page 522 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
23May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202023
Table 16:Table 12:Absolute GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2020-20502030-2045 (MTCO2e)
20302020
20302040
20502045
Building electrification
-1,500123,280
-18,590223,060
-94,380268,510
Renewable energy
-450290
-1,300420
-0
Energy efficiency
-1,2509,960
-15,960880
-34,90020,170
Municipal energy efficiency and electrification
-0140
-130230
-280310
Clean fuels
-3,68033,670
-49,98074,540
-95,690108,770
Sustainable transportation
-1,48016,010
-13,58032,890
-41,14044,490
Solid waste
-29,180
-19,92013,490
-28,89016,260
Water and wastewater
-20170
-100320
-240380
Off-road equipment
-03,660
-2007,130
-1,1409,890
Total 
-10,560196,360
-119,760367,960
-
295,660468,780
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
Table 17: Per-Capita GHG Emissions Reductions by Measure Topic, 2020-2050 (MTCO2e Per-Capita)
2020
2030
2050
Building electrification
-0.01
-0.15
-0.65
Renewable energy
-<0.01
0.01
-0
Energy efficiency
-0.01
-0.13
-0.24
Municipal energy efficiency and electrification
-0
-<0.01
-<0.01
Clean fuels
-0.03
-0.41
-0.67
Sustainable transportation
-0.01
-0.11
-0.29
Solid waste
-0.02
-0.16
-0.20
Water and wastewater
-<0.01
-<0.01
-<0.01
Off-road equipment
-<0.01
-<0.01
-0.01
Total 
-0.10
-0.97
-2.06
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the component parts.
522 of 599

--- page 523 ---
Table 18:Table 13: CAP Implementation Work Plan
Measure
Measure
20202030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20402030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
BE 1
All-electric new construction
-88021,070
-4,64038,450
-7,42047,250
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
BE 2
All-electric existing buildings
-620102,210
-
13,950184,61
0
-
85,960221,26
0
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
RE 1
Peninsula Clean Energy
-380160
-1,060170
-0
Low
Immediate 
City Manager’s 
Office
RE 2
Renewable energy systems for new and 
existing residences
-6070
-170160
-0
Medium
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
RE 3
Renewable energy systems for new and 
existing nonresidential buildings
-1060
-7090
-0
Medium
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 1
Residential energy efficiency retrofits
--410-6,160
-6,0307,020
-17,8606,790
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 2
Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
-8403,800
-9,9308,860
--17,040-
13,380
High
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
EE 3
Residential tree planting
Less than -10
Less than -10
Less than -10
Low
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
523 of 599

--- page 524 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
25May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202025
Measure
Measure
20202030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20402030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
ME 1
Energy efficiency for new municipal 
buildings
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Medium
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ME 2
Energy efficiency at existing municipal 
buildings
-010
-2030
-7040
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ME 3
All-electric municipal buildings 
-0130
-110200
-210270
Medium
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
CF 1
Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
-2,65024,420
-
29,63049,390
-
71,15069,780
High
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
CF 2
Electric vehicle education and outreach
-9804,910
-17,0508,030
-
17,12012,360
High
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
CF 3
Clean City fleet
-30130
-170200
-420270
Low
Near-term
Public Works
CF 4
Clean fuel
-204,210
-3,13016,920
-7,00026,360
Medium
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
524 of 599

--- page 525 ---
WORKS CITED
April 2020
2020 
Climate 
Action 
Plan26
26City of San Mateo
May 2023
Measure
Measure
20202030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20402030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
ST 1
Bicycle mode share
-4080
-240170
-670180
Medium
Mid-term
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 2
Pedestrian mode share
-390110
-760120
-1,110130
Low
Near-term
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 3
Micromobility and shared mobility
Supportive
Supportive
Supportive
Low
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ST 4
Public transit service
-8303,610
-9,1305,660
-25,1106,910
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
ST 5
Commuter programs
-0
-13070
-3,420160
High
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 6
Transportation Demand Management
-602,010
-2,3307,950
-8,46013,410
Medium
Immediate
Community 
Development, 
Public Works
ST 7
Transit-oriented development
-16010,200
-99018,920
-2,37023,700
Low
Near-term
Community 
Development
525 of 599

--- page 526 ---
IMPLEMENTATION
27May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
City of 
San 
Mateo
April 
202027
Measure
Measure
20202030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20402030 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
20502045 
GHG 
Reduction
(MTCO2e)
City
Staff
Time
Time
Frame
Lead
Department(s)
SW 1
Composting program
-9501,030
-12,6501,710
-141,850
High
Immediate
Public Works
SW 2
Expanded recycling service
-8106,070
-5,3607,730
-8,530820
High
Near-term
Public Works
SW 3
Waste awareness and source reduction
-4202,080
-1,9104,050
-5,510590
Medium
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public 
Works
WW 1
Water efficiency retrofits for existing 
buildings
-20170
-100300
-230360
Medium
Mid-term
Public Works
WW 2
Water-efficient landscaping
Less than -10
Less than -10
Less than -10
Low
Near-term
Public Works
WW 3
Water efficiency in new construction
-0
Less than -10
-1020
Medium
Mid-term
Community 
Development
OR 1
Alternative fuel lawn and garden 
equipment
-03,660
-2007,130
-1,1409,890
Medium
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
526 of 599

--- page 527 ---
527 of 599

--- page 528 ---
Appendix 1:
Technical Appendix: 
Methods and 
Assumptions
Emissions Factors
Table 1-1:Emissions Coefficients for CAP Measures
Source
2005
20172019
20302020
20402030
20502045
Source
MTCO2e per mile 
driven (with Pavley)
0.000464
0.0003800
00392
0.0003540
00312
0.0002740
00277
0.0002440
00269
EMFAC 20172021
MTCO2e per Caltrain 
passenger mile 
0.0043700
04371
0.0027780
02506
0.0027780
00629
0.0027780
00627
0.0027780
00626
Caltrain, US 
Community 
Protocol
MTCO2e per kWh 
(PCE)
-
0.0000640
00045
0.0000220
00000
0.000000
0.000000
PCE, US EPA
MTCO2e per kWh 
(PG&E)
0.000223
0.0001830
00002
0.0001830
00002
0.0001330
00001
0.000000
PG&E, US EPA
528 of 599

--- page 529 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-2
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Source
2005
20172019
20302020
20402030
20502045
Source
MTCO2e per kWh 
(direct access)
0.0003620
00057
0.0001910
00212
0.0001840
00152
0.0001320
00095
0.000000
CEC, US EPA
MTCO2e per kWh 
(weighted 
community average)
0.0002240
00160
0.0000970
00054
0.0000370
00010
0.0000120
00006
0.000000
PCE, PG&E, CEC, 
US EPA
MTCO2e per therm
0.0053120
05292
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
0.0053120
05319
US Community 
Protocol
MTCO2e per ton of 
waste
0.1928032
07521
0.2104212
53266
0.2104212
36134
0.2104212
36134
0.210421 
236134
CARB Landfill 
Emissions Tool 
v1.3
529 of 599

--- page 530 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-3
Peninsula Clean Energy
GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20502045
Emissions 
reduction 
(MTCO2e) 
19,84020,000
28,73013,750
0
Performance Indicators
20302020
20402030
20502045
Electricity supplied by 
PCE (kWh)
470,663,200495,153,490
495,509,370487,569,650
496,143,950501,096,050
PCE electricity supplied 
to ECO 100ECO100 
customers (kWh)
10,550,64027,614,500
10,550,64027,614,500
10,550,64027,614,500
Energy -efficiency retrofits
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
716,330136,470
716,330136,470
716,330136,470
Natural 
gas 
savings 
(therms)
-8605,910
-8605,910
-8605,910
Emissions 
reduction 
(MTCO2e)
5030
30
30
Solar energy installation
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20402030
20502045
530 of 599

--- page 531 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-4
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Electricity savings (kWh)
3,592,6505,695,620
3,592,6505,695,620
3,592,6505,695,620
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
10020
10
0
531 of 599

--- page 532 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-5
Caltrain shuttles
Municipal energy-efficiency retrofits
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20302040
20502045
VMTElectricity savings (kWh)
47,7401,831,170
47,7401,831,170
47,7401,831,170
Natural gas savings (therms)
22,870
22,870
22,870
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
20160
10160
10160
Public-access EV chargers
GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 10
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Net increase in EV VMT
258,720
258,720
258,720
Net increase in electricity use (kWh)
87,960
87,960
87,960
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Annual ridership increase
3,910
3,910
3,910
Average trip length (miles) 
13.9
13.9
13.9
532 of 599

--- page 533 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-6
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Electric vehicle adoption
GHG Assumptions
2020
2030
2050
Projected EV adoption rate by State
1.63%
3.92%
5.31%
GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
3,420
0
0
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Projected EV adoption rate (at current levels)
2.02%
2.02%
2.02%
Net increase in EV VMT
9,873,684
0
0
Net increase in electricity use (kWh)
-3,357,050
0
0
Public-access EV chargers
GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
10
10
10
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
Net increase in EV VMT
28,200
28,200
28,200
Net increase in electricity use (kWh)
9,600
9,600
9,600
533 of 599

--- page 534 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-7
Transportation Demand Management
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20402030
20502045
Transportation 
savings 
(VMT)
752,750725,620
753,390700,370
733,700687,710
Emissions 
reduction 
(MTCO2e) 
270190
210170
180160
Additional Bicycle Lanes
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
VMT savings
97,990
111,570
119,050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
30
30
30
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Additional bicycle lanes (miles)
6.4
6.4
6.4
Composting
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Waste savings (tons)
4,090
4,090
4,090
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
1,800
1,800
1,800
534 of 599

--- page 535 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-8
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Caltrain electrification
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20402030
20502045
Electricity use increase 
(kWh)
011,852,700
10,921,68011,852,700
10,921,68011,852,700
Emissions 
reduction 
(MTCO2e) 
03,560
3,4504,200
3,8804,560
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
0
1,708,530
1,708,530
Natural gas savings (therms)
0
10,910
10,910
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
0
60
60
BE 1 All-electric new construction
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Cumulative % of residential construction influenced by energy 
efficiency reach code:
3590%
3595%
4095%
Cumulative % of office commercial construction influenced by energy 
efficiency reach code:
3585%
3590%
3595%
Cumulative % of non-office commercial construction influenced by 
energy efficiency reach code:
040%
2060%
3590%
Cumulative % new non-residential buildings that are office space:
4059%
4064%
4064%
535 of 599

--- page 536 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-9
Activity and GHG reductions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-
441,6508,588
,290
-
2,386,81015,
674,440
-
3,903,36019,
303,790
Natural gas savings (therms)
167,9703,099
,740
874,2305,653
,260
1,395,4806,9
36,870
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
88021,070
4,64038,450
7,42047,250
Performance indicators
20202030
20402030
20502045
Number of all-electric 
new construction 
residential housing units
4808,280 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
2,73019,360 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
5,52025,500 new 
construction residential 
housing units built all-
electric.
Square feet of all-electric 
new construction non-
residential buildings
24,560837,280 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
548,7302,264,130 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
2,508,8103,424,010 square 
feet of new construction 
non-residential buildings 
built all-electric.
BE 2 All-electric existing buildings
Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Cumulative percent of commercial buildings that are office space
4059%
4064%
4064%
Cumulative percent of residential gas equipment reaching end of 
life replaced with electric due to panel incentive
535%
1040%
2050%
536 of 599

--- page 537 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-10
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Cumulative percent of residential electrical panel upgrades 
resulting in EV purchase
1550%
2035%
2520%
Cumulative percent of office gas equipment reaching end of life 
replaced with electric due to panel incentive
570%
1075%
2090%
Cumulative percent of office electrical panel upgrades resulting 
in EV charging installation
1040%
1030%
1520%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing gasoline vehicle
9998%
9897%
96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases replacing diesel vehicle
13%
23%
4%
Activity and GHG reductions
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-80,105,780
-125,747,100
-133,624,540
Natural gas savings (therms)
5,002,490
11,459,340
17,775,000
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
102,210
184,610
221,260
Performance indicators
Activity and GHG reductions
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-444,130
-9,897,890
-
61,334,800
Natural gas savings (therms)
63,350
1,393,740
7,855,640
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
620
13,950
85,960
537 of 599

--- page 538 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-11
Performance indicators
2020
2030
2050
Existing residential gas 
to electric HVAC 
conversions
130 existing residential 
gas HVAC systems 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
2,860 existing residential 
gas HVAC systems 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
16,100 existing 
residential gas HVAC 
systems replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
Existing residential gas 
to electric water 
heating conversions
190 existing residential 
gas water heaters 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
4,280 existing residential 
gas water heaters 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
24,150 existing 
residential gas water 
heaters replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
Existing residential gas 
to electric clothes 
drying conversions
190 existing residential 
gas clothes dryers 
replaced with electric 
clothes dryers.
4,280 existing residential 
gas clothes dryers 
replaced with electric 
clothes dryers.
24,150 existing 
residential gas clothes 
dryers replaced with 
electric clothes dryers.
Existing residential gas 
to electric cooking 
conversions
160 existing residential 
gas ranges and ovens 
replaced with electric 
ranges and ovens.
3,430 existing residential 
gas ranges and ovens 
replaced with electric 
ranges and ovens.
19,320 existing 
residential gas ranges 
and ovens replaced with 
electric ranges and 
ovens.
Existing residential 
electrical panel 
upgrades
340 existing residential 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
7,430 existing residential 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
41,860 existing 
residential electrical 
panels upgraded.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric HVAC 
conversions
32,560 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
716,370 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
4,037,710 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric water heating 
conversions
48,840 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
water heaters with 
electric water heaters.
1,074,550 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
water heaters with 
electric water heaters.
6,056,560 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
water heaters with 
electric water heaters.
538 of 599

--- page 539 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-12
City of San Mateo
May 2023
2020
2030
2050
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric cooking 
conversions
39,070 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and 
ovens.
859,640 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and 
ovens.
4,845,250 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and 
ovens.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving 
electrical panel 
upgrades
60,240 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
1,325,280 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
7,469,760 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
Number of electric 
vehicles 
purchased/leased to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
(ICE) vehicles
60 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
1,720 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
12,450 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
Existing office parking 
spaces with EV 
charging: 
10 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
270 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
2,240 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
Existing residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging: 
50 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
1,490 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
10,460 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
GHG Method
2030
2040
2045
Existing residential gas 
to electric HVAC 
conversions
9,890 existing residential 
gas HVAC systems 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
22,620 existing residential 
gas HVAC systems 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
35,340 existing 
residential gas HVAC 
systems replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
539 of 599

--- page 540 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-13
2030
2040
2045
Existing residential gas 
to electric water heating 
conversions
14,840 existing residential 
gas water heaters 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
33,920 existing residential 
gas water heaters 
replaced with electric 
HVAC systems.
53,000 existing 
residential gas water 
heaters replaced with 
electric HVAC systems.
Existing residential gas 
to electric clothes drying 
conversions
7,420 existing residential 
gas clothes dryers 
replaced with electric 
clothes dryers.
16,960 existing residential 
gas clothes dryers 
replaced with electric 
clothes dryers.
26,500 existing 
residential gas clothes 
dryers replaced with 
electric clothes dryers.
Existing residential gas 
to electric cooking 
conversions
5,940 existing residential 
gas ranges and ovens 
replaced with electric 
ranges and ovens.
13,570 existing residential 
gas ranges and ovens 
replaced with electric 
ranges and ovens.
21,200 existing 
residential gas ranges 
and ovens replaced with 
electric ranges and ovens.
Existing residential 
electrical panel 
upgrades
19,050 existing residential 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
43,530 existing residential 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
68,020 existing 
residential electrical 
panels upgraded.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric HVAC 
conversions
5,523,120 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
12,778,100 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
19,167,150 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
HVAC systems with 
electric HVAC systems.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric water heating 
conversions
8,284,680 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas water 
heaters with electric 
water heaters.
19,167,150 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas water 
heaters with electric 
water heaters.
28,750,730 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas water 
heaters with electric 
water heaters.
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving gas to 
electric cooking 
conversions
6,627,740 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and ovens.
15,333,720 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and ovens.
23,000,580 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
replace existing gas 
ranges and ovens with 
electric ranges and ovens.
540 of 599

--- page 541 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-14
City of San Mateo
May 2023
2030
2040
2045
Square feet of existing 
offices receiving 
electrical panel 
upgrades
10,217,770 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
23,639,490 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
35,459,230 square feet of 
existing office buildings 
electrical panels 
upgraded.
Number of electric 
vehicles 
purchased/leased to 
replace internal 
combustion engine (ICE) 
vehicles
16,750 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
27,780 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
26,150 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
Existing office parking 
spaces with EV charging: 
8,170 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
14,180 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
14,180 EV charging ports 
installed at existing office 
buildings.
Existing residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging: 
9,520 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
15,240 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
13,600 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
residential buildings.
RE I Peninsula Clean Energy
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Percent of residents enrolling in PCE
98%
99%
99.5%
Percent of businesses enrolling in PCE
98%
99%
99.5%
Percent of direct access customers switching to PCE
02%
24%
5%
GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
380160
1,060170
0
541 of 599

--- page 542 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-15
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
PCE opt-out rate
1.0%
1.0%
0.5%
kWh supplied by ECO 100
32,959,210
43,792,410
55,425,750
GHG Method
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
PCE opt-out rate
2.0%
1.0%
0.5%
kWh supplied by ECO 100
15,009,960
28,976,980
53,073,310
RE 2 Renewable energy systems for new and existing residences
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing homes installing solar energy systems
415%
1525%
30%
Percent of existing homes with solar energy systems installing 
battery storage systems
120%
2035%
50%
Percent of new homes installing battery storage systems
225%
2540%
60%
GHG Reduction
20202030
20402030
20502045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
6070
170160
0
542 of 599

--- page 543 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-16
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Number of homes built before 2018 with solar panels
4,960
8,540
10,530
Number of total homes (existing and new) with battery energy 
systems
1,500
12,040
22,710
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Number of homes built before 2018 with solar panels
420
4,700
10,540
Number of total homes (existing and new) with battery 
energy systems
40
3,480
14,650
RE 3 Renewable energy systems for new and existing nonresidential buildings
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent 
of 
existing 
businesses installing solar 
energy systems
1.506%
610%
15%
Percent 
of 
existing 
businesses 
with 
solar 
energy systems installing 
battery storage systems
115%
1525%
40%
GHG reductions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
1060
7090
0
543 of 599

--- page 544 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-17
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20502045
Number of businesses built before 2018 with solar panels
10180
200340
580550
Number of existing businesses with battery energy systems
040
40100
250240
EE 1 Residential energy efficiency retrofits
Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20502045
Percent of existing homes conducting standard retrofits (not including 
fuel-switched homes)
215%
2518%
6020%
Percent of existing homes retrofitting to current Title 24 standards (not 
including fuel-switched homes)
020%
525%
2030%
Activity and GHG reductions
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
9,137,050
7,303,020
6,039,130
Natural gas savings (therms)
903,660
1,030,250
996,860
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
6,160
7,020
6,790
Activity and GHG reductions
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
935,040
22,303,130
63,551,960
Natural gas savings (therms)
73,040
1,120,590
3,358,020
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
410
6,030
17,860
544 of 599

--- page 545 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-18
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Performance indicators
20302020
20402030
20502045
Number of 
homes 
retrofitted
4002,290 single-family 
homes and 340 multi-
family1,840 multifamily 
homes undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 03,060 single-
family homes and 0 multi-
family2,450 multifamily 
homes being upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards
4,7202,540 single-family 
homes and 42,040 multi-
familymultifamily homes 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 9403,530 
single-family homes and 810 
multi-family2,830 multifamily 
homes being upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards
10,0602,350 single-family 
homes and 8,620 multi-
family1,890 multifamily 
homes undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 3,350530 
single-family homes and 
2,870 multi-family830 
multifamily homes being 
upgraded to current Title 24 
standards
545 of 599

--- page 546 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-19
EE 2 Nonresidential energy efficiency retrofits
Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20502045
Percent of existing businesses conducting standard retrofits (not 
including fuel-switched businesses)
325%
4035%
7510%
Percent of existing businesses retrofitting to current Title 24 standards 
(not including fuel-switched businesses)
015%
540%
2075%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
3,488,130
46,736,170
119,125,610
Natural gas savings (therms)
121,600
1,629,220
3,203,760
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
840
9,930
17,040
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
22,252,780
60,968,630
93,592,880
Natural gas savings (therms)
535,400
1,266,570
1,964,000
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
3,800
8,860
13,380
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Number of 
businesses 
retrofitted
590 businesses undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 360 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
740 businesses undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 840 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
170 businesses undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 1,300 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
546 of 599

--- page 547 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-20
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Number of 
businesses 
retrofitted
120 businesses undergoing 
standard retrofits, and 0 
businesses upgraded to 
current Title 24 standards.
1,600 businesses 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 200 businesses 
upgraded to current Title 24 
standards.
2,870 businesses 
undergoing standard 
retrofits, and 770 businesses 
upgraded to current Title 24 
standards.
547 of 599

--- page 548 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-21
EE 3 Residential tree planting
Assumptions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Percent 
of 
households 
with shade trees
210%
1025%
35%
Activity and GHG reduction
20302020
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
174,760793,560
874,6101,889,740
3,064,1102,837,540
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
Less than 10
Less than 10
Less than 100
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Number of households with shade trees
860
4,820
18,770
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Number of households with shade trees
4,240
13,130
22,330
548 of 599

--- page 549 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-22
City of San Mateo
May 2023
ME 2 Energy efficiency at existing municipal buildings
Assumptions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing municipal square footage retrofitted
010%
1025%
35%
Note that these retrofits go beyond those included as part of the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey program, as those are already 
accounted for as a planned action.
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
21,24067,260
106,200168,140
371,700235,400
Natural gas savings (therms)
7401,860
3,7004,640
12,9606,500
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
2030
7040
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Square footage of retrofitted municipal buildings
9,440
23,610
33,050
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Square footage of retrofitted municipal buildings
3,970
19,830
69,390
ME 3 All-electric municipal buildings 
Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Cumulative building area of existing municipal building/s 
electrified (square feet):
040,000
4060,000
80,000
549 of 599

--- page 550 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-23
20202030
20302040
20502045
Cumulative number of police stations & fire stations electrified: 
0
0
1
Cumulative building area of new municipal building/s electrified 
(square feet):
040,000
4060,000
80,000
550 of 599

--- page 551 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-24
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Activity and GHG Reductions
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-157,380
-236,070
-314,760
Natural gas savings (therms)
19,760
29,640
39,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
130
200
270
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Square feet of 
existing municipal 
building/s electrified: 
40,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
60,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
80,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to all-
electric.
Activity and GHG Reductions
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
0
-157,380
-314,760
Natural gas savings (therms)
0
19,760
39,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
0
110
210
Performance Indicators
551 of 599

--- page 552 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-25
2020
2030
20
50
Square feet of 
existing municipal 
building/s electrified: 
0 square feet of existing 
municipal buildings 
retrofitted to all-electric.
40,000 square feet of 
existing municipal 
buildings retrofitted to 
all-electric.
80,
000 
squ
are 
fee
t of 
exi
stin
g 
mu
nici
pal 
bui
ldi
ngs 
retr
ofit
ted 
to 
all-
ele
ctri
c.
Number of police 
stations & fire 
stations electrified: 
0 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
0 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
1 existing police stations 
or fire stations retrofitted 
to all-electric. 
Square feet of new 
municipal building/s 
electrified: 
040,000 square feet of 
new municipal buildings 
built all-electric.
4060,000 square feet of 
new municipal buildings 
built all-electric.
80,000 square feet of 
new municipal buildings 
built all-electric.
552 of 599

--- page 553 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-26
City of San Mateo
May 2023
CF 1 Electric vehicle charging infrastructure
Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20502045
Cumulative average square feet of new commercial building space per 
parking spot
300
300
300
Cumulative targetTarget percent of new workplace parking to have EV 
charger installed
1020%
1320%
1725%
Cumulative targetTarget percent of new multi-unit dwelling residents 
with EV charger access
815%
1625%
2230%
Cumulative targetTarget percent of new single-family homes to have 
EV charger outlet installed
015%
5025%
7035%
Cumulative percent commercial buildings that are office space with 
parking
4059%
4064%
4064%
Cumulative average square feet of existing commercial building space 
per parking spot
600
600
600
Cumulative targetTarget percent of existing workplace parking to have 
EV charger installed
17%
108%
1510%
Cumulative targetTarget percent of existing multi-unit dwelling 
residents with access to EV charging
17%
108%
1510%
Cumulative target additional public parking spaces with EV charging
238
3055
60
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a gasoline vehicle
9998%
9897%
96%
Cumulative percent of EV purchases that replace a diesel vehicle
12%
23%
4%
Target percent of heavy-duty vehicle converted to EV
5%
20%
25%
553 of 599

--- page 554 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-27
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-22,561,870
-36,502,430
-51,974,960
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
24,420
49,390
69,780
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
New non-residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
1,570 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
3,160 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
5,010 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
New multi-unit dwelling 
residential parking 
spaces with EV charging
810 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
3,380 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
5,290 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
New single-family 
residential parking 
spaces with EV charger 
outlet
680 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
1,970 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
3,600 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
Existing non-residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
1,540 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
non-residential 
buildings. 
2,100 EV charging ports 
installed at existing non-
residential buildings. 
2,770 EV charging ports 
installed at existing non-
residential buildings. 
Existing multi-unit 
dwelling residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
1,850 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
2,570 EV charging ports 
installed at existing multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
3,530 EV charging ports 
installed at existing multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
Existing additional public 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
38 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
public locations. 
60 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
60 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
554 of 599

--- page 555 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-28
City of San Mateo
May 2023
2030
2040
2045
Number of light-duty 
electric vehicles 
purchased or
leased 
5510 light-duty electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased 
10,840 light-duty electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased. 
16,110 light-duty electric 
vehicles purchased or 
leased 
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-2,557,760
-27,826,150
-64,649,830
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
2,650
29,630
71,150
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
New non-residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
150 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
2,700 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
10,810 EV charging ports 
installed at new non-
residential buildings. 
New multi-unit 
dwelling residential 
parking spaces with EV 
charging
80 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
1,060 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
2,320 EV charging ports 
installed at new multi-
family residential 
buildings. 
New single-family 
residential parking 
spaces with EV charger 
outlet
0 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
1,310 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
2,910 EV charging outlets 
installed at new single-
family residential 
buildings. 
Existing non-
residential parking 
spaces with EV 
charging
170 EV charging ports 
installed at existing non-
residential buildings. 
2,040 EV charging ports 
installed at existing non-
residential buildings. 
4,350 EV charging ports 
installed at existing non-
residential buildings. 
Existing multi-unit 
dwelling residential 
210 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
2,380 EV charging ports 
installed at existing multi-
3,980 EV charging ports 
installed at existing multi-
555 of 599

--- page 556 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-29
parking spaces with EV 
charging
multi-family residential 
buildings. 
family residential 
buildings. 
family residential 
buildings. 
Existing additional 
public parking spaces 
with EV charging
2 EV charging ports 
installed at existing 
public locations. 
30 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
60 EV charging ports 
installed at existing public 
locations. 
Number of electric 
vehicles purchased/
leased to replace ICE 
vehicles
570 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters 
to replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
7,800 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
20,040 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles. 
CF 2 Electric vehicle education and outreach
Assumptions
2
0
2
0
2
0
3
0
2
0
3
0
2
0
4
0
20502045
Target percent of total community Transportation Network Company (TNC) VMT from 
electric vehicles
2
3
0
%
6
0
4
5
%
9060%
Target percent total community VMT from electric vehicles
4
.
5
3
0
%
3
0
6
0
%
7470%
556 of 599

--- page 557 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-30
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-4,334,040
-6,786,810
-10,211,980
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
4,910
8,030
12,360
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Annual additional 
VMT travelled by 
EV TNCs
17,528,180 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
30,375,160 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
45,704,900 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-885,200
-16,127,620
-16,697,140
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
980
17,050
17,120
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Annual additional 
VMT travelled by 
EV TNCs
0 vehicle miles travelled by 
internal combustion 
engine transportation 
network companies 
vehicles replaced with 
electric vehicles. 
44,448,380 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
74,729,990 vehicle miles 
travelled by internal 
combustion engine 
transportation network 
companies vehicles 
replaced with electric 
vehicles. 
557 of 599

--- page 558 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-31
Number of electric 
vehicles 
purchased/leased 
to replace ICE 
vehicles due to 
education/outreac
h/incentives
200 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
1,440 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
0 electric vehicles 
purchased or leased by 
residents or commuters to 
replace internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles.
558 of 599

--- page 559 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-32
City of San Mateo
May 2023
CF 3 Clean City fleet
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of City vehicles replaced with EVs
325%
2545%
60%
Percent of City vehicles fueled by biomethane
715%
1520%
25%
Activity and GHG Reductions
20302020
20402030
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-11,640105,540
-135,510212,500
-
353,720319,750
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
30130
170200
420270
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Fleet EV VMT
610,020
1,250,360
1,779,020
Fleet biomethane VMT
366,010
555,720
741,260
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Fleet EV VMT
69,210
643,920
1,715,120
Fleet biomethane VMT
161,480
386,350
714,630
559 of 599

--- page 560 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-33
CF 4 Clean fuel
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Target % total community VMT from hydrogen vehicles
0.018%
1.530%
3.545%
Activity and GHG Reductions
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-2,186,300
-8,413,180
-13,430,770
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
4,210
16,920
26,360
Performance Indicators
Activity and GHG Reductions
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-53,540
-6,526,280
-14,423,210
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
20
3,130
7,000
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
20
50
Number of hydrogen 
vehicles purchased/
leased to replace ICE 
vehicles due to 
education, outreach, 
or incentives
5 hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles purchased or 
leased by residents or 
commuters to replace 
internal combustion 
engine vehicles. 
800 hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles purchased or 
leased by residents or 
commuters to replace 
internal combustion 
engine vehicles. 
1,9
60 
hy
dr
og
en 
fue
l 
cel
560 of 599

--- page 561 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-34
City of San Mateo
May 2023
l 
ve
hic
les 
pu
rch
as
ed 
or 
lea
se
d 
by 
res
ide
nts 
or 
co
m
mu
ter
s 
to 
re
pla
ce 
int
er
nal 
co
m
bu
sti
on 
en
gin
561 of 599

--- page 562 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-35
e 
ve
hic
les. 
2030
2040
2045
Number of heavy-
duty hydrogen 
vehicles purchased or
leased 
260 hydrogen fuel 
heavy-duty cell vehicles 
purchased or leased . 
1,110 hydrogen fuel cell 
heavy-duty vehicles 
purchased or leased . 
1,770 hydrogen fuel cell 
heavy-duty vehicles 
purchased or leased . 
ST 1 Bicycle mode share
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Additional miles of bike lanes
1.322
1045.2
3045.2
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Travel savings (VMT)
300,960
704,120
751,370
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
80
170
180
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Total miles of bike lanes
78
101
101
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Travel savings (VMT)
106,930
874,290
2,742,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
40
240
670
562 of 599

--- page 563 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-36
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Total miles of bike lanes
58
67
87
563 of 599

--- page 564 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-37
ST 2 Pedestrian mode share
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20302040
20502045
Travel savings (VMT)
1,159,460436,590
2,853,720497,160
4,650,540530,520
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
390110
760120
1,110130
ST 4 Public transit service
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Bus commute sharecoverage
315%
520%
1020%
Percent increase in Caltrain 
ridershipservice 
625%
8740%
26350%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-10,253,31
-23,468,340
-31,189,470
Travel savings (VMT)
13,770,100
23,451,790
29,098,510
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
3,610
5,660
6,910
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Bus commute share
15%
20%
20%
Average Caltrain daily ridership in San Mateo
8,070
12,900
15,720
564 of 599

--- page 565 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-38
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
-668,490
-9,447,930
-28,739,580
Travel savings (VMT)
2,395,930
33,318,340
102,835,750
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
830
9,130
25,110
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Bus commute share
3%
5%
10%
Average Caltrain daily ridership in San Mateo
4,230
7,440
14,490
ST 5 Commuter programs
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of existing employers (pre-2006) participating in TDM
05%
520%
30%
Average trip reduction from voluntary TDM participation, 
beyond other CAP measures
08%
830%
40%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Travel savings (VMT)
15,290
278,640
669,000
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
Less than 10
70
160
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
565 of 599

--- page 566 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-39
Existing (pre-2006) businesses participating in TDM efforts
130
540
810
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Travel savings (VMT)
0
466,240
13,987,130
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
0
130
3,420
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Existing (pre-2006) businesses participating in TDM efforts
0
210
1,250
ST 6 Transportation Demand Management
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of new 
developments subject to 
TDM rules
90%
9590%
9590%
Average trip reduction from 
new development subject 
to TDM rules, beyond other 
CAP measures
6.2510%
1015%
4020%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Travel savings (VMT)
167,920
8,500,890
34,636,730
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
60
2,330
8,460
566 of 599

--- page 567 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-40
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Travel savings (VMT)
7,646,580
32,944,170
56,484,350
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
2,010
7,950
13,410
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Service population in new development (2018 and later) 
subject to the TDM ordinance
29,940
65,680
86,010
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Service population in new development (2018 and later) 
subject to the TDM ordinance
2,910
20,410
43,870
ST 7 Transit-oriented development
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Percent of new units in 
areas supporting transit-
oriented development
9095%
95%
95%
Percent of new 
nonresidential square 
footage in areas supporting 
transit-oriented 
development
8590%
90%
90%
567 of 599

--- page 568 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-41
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Travel savings (VMT)
38,865,630
78,398,130
99,833,910
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
10,200
18,920
23,700
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
New development in 
TOD zones
9,610 households and 
7,350 employees
20,330 households and 
14,880 employees
26,520 households and 
18,970 employees
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Travel savings (VMT)
464,110
3,605,900
9,695,490
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
160
990
2,370
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
New development in 
TOD zones
3,680 households and 0 
employees
8,770 households and 
2,980 employees
13,940 households and 
5,710 employees
SW 1 Composting program
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Residential composting participation rate
5590%
9093%
95%
Nonresidential composting participation rate
1085%
8088%
90%
568 of 599

--- page 569 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-42
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Waste savings (tons)
2,190
28,910
33,910
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
950
12,650
14,850
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Waste savings (tons)
2,350
3,900
4,220
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
1,030
1,710
1,850
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Composting 
participation levels
47,270 households and 
3,890 businesses
59,020 households and 
4,510 businesses
66,800 households and 
4,880 businesses
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Composting 
participation levels
23,670 households and 
410 businesses
43,360 households and 
3,510 businesses
50,940 households and 
4,120 businesses
SW 2 Expanded recycling service
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Target diversion rate
7585%
8588%
90%
569 of 599

--- page 570 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-43
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Waste savings (tons)
9,860
12,570
14,330
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
6,070
7,730
8,820
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Total tons of recyclables recovered (curbside bins only)
22,450
27,420
30,480
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Waste savings (tons)
1,320
8,710
13,860
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
810
5,360
8,530
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Total tons of recyclables recovered (curbside bins only)
49,430
61,700
73,400
SW 3 Waste awareness and source reduction
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20502045
Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage
5%
20%
50%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20202030
20402030
20502045
Waste savings (tons)
2,25015,420
10,20030,110
2941,510
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
4202,080
1,9104,050
5,510590
570 of 599

--- page 571 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-44
City of San Mateo
May 2023
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage 
sent to landfills
15,420
30,110
41,510
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Decrease in non-organic and non-recyclable waste tonnage 
sent to landfills
2,250
10,200
29,510
WW 1 Water -efficiency retrofits for existing buildings
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20402030
20502045
Percent of existing homes retrofitting water fixtures
1050%
5070%
9580%
Percent of existing businesses retrofitting water fixtures
540%
4070%
9580%
Percent of existing homes with greywater systems
05%
515%
20%
Percent of existing businesses with greywater systems
03%
310%
15%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
411,310
777,100
914,320
Water savings (millions of gallons)
160
280
340
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
170
300
360
571 of 599

--- page 572 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-45
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Number of water 
efficiency retrofits
19,890 existing homes and 
1,610 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
27,840 existing homes and 
2,820 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
31,820 existing homes and 
3,230 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
Number of 
greywater system 
installations as part 
of retrofit activities
2,120 homes and 120 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
6,360 homes and 400 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
8,480 homes and 610 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
38,960
345,160
877,710
Water savings (millions of gallons)
20
130
300
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
20
100
230
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Number of water 
efficiency retrofits
3,890 existing homes and 
210 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
19,470 existing homes and 
1,670 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
37,000 existing homes and 
3,960 existing businesses 
with water efficiency 
retrofits.
Number of 
greywater system 
installations as part 
of retrofit activities
0 homes and 0 businesses 
with greywater systems 
installed.
1,950 homes and 120 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
7,790 homes and 620 
businesses with greywater 
systems installed.
572 of 599

--- page 573 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-46
City of San Mateo
May 2023
WW 2 Water-efficient landscaping
GHG Assumptions
20202030
20302040
20502045
Reduction 
in 
total 
outdoor 
water use
310%
1020%
25%
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
85,940
315,520
886,220
Water savings (millions of gallons)
60
220
610
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
Less than 10
0
Activity and GHG Reduction
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
374,760
827,380
1,086,620
Water savings (millions of gallons)
260
570
750
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
Less than 10
10
0
WW 3 Water efficiency in new construction
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Percent of 
new 
homes 
08%
820%
25%
573 of 599

--- page 574 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
May 2023
2020 Climate Action Plan
1-47
installing 
greywater 
systems
Percent of 
new 
businesses 
installing 
greywater 
systems
05%
515%
20%
Activity and GHG Reduction
20302020
20302040
20502045
Electricity savings (kWh)
07,620
5,99040,580
30,05066,320
Water savings (millions of gallons)
010
Less than 1030
2050
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e)
0Less than 10
Less than 10
10
Performance Indicators
2020
2030
2050
Number of new homes with greywater systems
0
740
3,670
Number of new businesses with greywater systems
0
10
80
Performance Indicators
2030
2040
2045
Number of new homes with greywater systems
810
4,280
6,980
Number of new businesses with greywater systems
30
160
280
574 of 599

--- page 575 ---
APPENDIX 1 
1-48
City of San Mateo
May 2023
OR 1 Alternative fuel lawn and gardenoff-road equipment
GHG Assumptions
20302020
20302040
20502045
Percent of landscaping equipment that uses electricity
020%
845%
4060%
Percent of other off-road equipment that uses electricity
15%
25%
30%
Activity and GHG Reduction
Activity and GHG Reduction
2020
2030
2050
Electricity savings (kWh)
0
-892,140
-
4,460,680
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
0
200
1,140
2030
2040
2045
Electricity savings (kWh)
-2,201,600
-4,633,000
-6,091,990
Emissions reduction (MTCO2e) 
3,660
7,130
9,890
575 of 599

--- page 576 ---
TECHNICAL APPENDIX: METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS 
A-1
City of San Mateo
April 2020
 
Appendix 2:
CAP Measure Key 
Metrics
576 of 599

--- page 577 ---
577 of 599

--- page 578 ---
Sirs City of
“== San Mateo
Climate Action Plan



--- page 579 ---
APPENDIX 4
April 2020
2020 Climate Action Plan
A-2
Table 1-2: Table 2-1: CAP Measure Key Metrics
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
BE 1
All-electric new 
construction
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of all-electric new 
construction residential housing units.
- Square feet of all-electric new 
construction non-residential 
buildings.
BE 2
All-electric existing 
buildings
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of existing homes with gas 
to electric HVAC conversions.
- Square feet of existing office 
buildings with gas to electric HVAC 
conversions.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
office buildings with EV charging.
RE 1
Peninsula Clean 
Energy
Immediate 
City Manager’s Office
- PCE opt-out rate.
- kWh supplied by ECO 100
RE 2
Renewable energy 
systems for new 
and existing 
residences
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of homes built before 2018 
with solar panels.
- Number of total homes (existing and 
new) with battery energy systems.
RE 3
Renewable energy 
systems for new 
and existing 
nonresidential 
buildings
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of businesses built before 
2018 with solar panels.
- Number of existing businesses with 
battery energy systems.
EE 1
Residential energy 
efficiency retrofits
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of homes retrofitted.
EE 2
Nonresidential 
energy efficiency 
retrofits
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Number of businesses retrofitted.
579 of 599

--- page 580 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
A-3
City of San Mateo
April 2020
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
EE 3
Residential tree 
plantings
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Number of households with shade 
trees.
ME 1
Energy efficiency 
for new municipal 
buildings
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
None – supportive measure.
ME 2
Energy efficiency 
at existing 
municipal 
buildings
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Square footage of retrofitted 
municipal buildings.
ME 3
All-electric 
municipal 
buildings 
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Square feet of existing municipal 
buildings electrified.
- Square feet of new municipal 
buildings electrified.
CF 1
Electric vehicle 
charging 
infrastructure
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Number of parking spaces at new 
nonresidential buildings with EV 
charging.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
nonresidential buildings (not 
including offices) with EV charging.
- Number of parking spaces at existing 
multifamily units with EV charging.
CF 2
Electric vehicle 
education and 
outreach
Immediate
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development
- Estimated number of TNCs operating 
in San Mateo that are EVs.
- Number of residents contacted with 
EV marketing materials.
CF 3
Clean City fleet
Near-term
Public Works
- Fleet EV VMT.
- Fleet biomethane VMT.
CF 4
Clean fuel
Long-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Number of hydrogen vehicles 
registered.
580 of 599

--- page 581 ---
APPENDIX 4
April 2020
2020 Climate Action Plan
A-4
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
ST 1
Bicycle mode 
share
Mid-term
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Total miles of bike lanes.
ST 2
Pedestrian mode 
share
Near-term
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Percent of developmentincrease in 
infill locationspedestrian sidewalks 
and pathways.
ST 3
Micromobility and 
shared mobility
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
None – supportive measure.
ST 4
Public transit 
services
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Bus commute sharenetwork coverage.
- Average Caltrain daily ridershipservice 
frequency.
ST 5
Commuter 
programs
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Pre-2006 businesses participating in 
TDM efforts.
ST 6
Transportation 
Demand 
Management
Immediate
Community 
Development, Public 
Works
- Service population in new 
development subject to the TDM 
ordinance.
ST 7
Transit-oriented 
development
Near-term
Community 
Development
- New development in TOD zones.
SW 1
Composting 
program
Immediate
Public Works
- Composting participation levels.
SW 2
Expanded 
recycling service
Near-term
Public Works
- Total tons of recyclables recovered.
SW 3
Waste awareness 
and source 
reduction
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Public Works
- Decrease in non-organic and non-
recyclable waste tonnage sent to 
landfills.
WW 1
Water efficiency 
retrofits for 
existing buildings
Mid-term
Public Works
- Number of water efficiency retrofits.
- Number of greywater system 
installations in existing buildings.
581 of 599

--- page 582 ---
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
A-5
City of San Mateo
April 2020
Measure
Time
Frame
Lead
Department
Key Metric
WW 2
Water-efficient 
landscaping
Near-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Estimated outdoor water use
WW 3
Water efficiency in 
new construction
Mid-term
Community 
Development 
- Number of new homes with 
greywater systems.
- Number of new businesses with 
greywater systems.
OR 1
Alternative fuel 
lawn and garden 
equipment
Mid-term
City Manager’s 
Office, Parks and 
Recreation
- Estimated percent of landscaping 
equipment that uses electricity.
- Estimated percent of non-landscaping 
equipment that uses electricity.
582 of 599

--- page 583 ---
Climate Action Plan – 2023 Technical Update
August 9, 2023
583 of 599

--- page 584 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
Tonight’s Agenda
» Climate Action Plan 
Overview
» 2023 Technical Update
• Reasons for Update
• Changes Made
» Commission Review 
and Recommendation
584 of 599

--- page 585 ---
Climate Action Plan 
Overview
585 of 599

--- page 586 ---
4
StriveSanMateo.org
San Mateo Climate Action Plan
» City’s comprehensive strategy to 
reduce GHG emissions.
• Implementation program of the 2030 
General Plan.
» First prepared in 2015, based on 
earlier plans from 2007-2010.
» Updated in 2020.
» Serves as a “CEQA Qualified” GHG 
Reduction Strategy.
586 of 599

--- page 587 ---
5
StriveSanMateo.org
Sections of Climate Action Plan
Executive 
Summary
Chapter 1: 
Introduction 
and Purpose
Chapter 2:    
GHG 
Inventories, 
Forecasts, and 
Reduction 
Targets
Chapter 3: 
Strategies to 
Achieve the 
Target
Chapter 4: 
Implementation
CAP Consistency 
Checklist and 
other 
appendices
587 of 599

--- page 588 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
Targets in Climate Action Plan
» At the time of adoption, State recommended per-capita 
targets for community-wide CAPs from 2017 Scoping 
Plan.
• 6.0 MTCO2e per-person by 2030
• 2.0 MTCO2e per person by 2050
» 2020 CAP set locally-relevant targets based on State 
recommendations.
• 4.3 MTCO2e per-person by 2030
• 1.2 MTCO2e per person by 2050
588 of 599

--- page 589 ---
7
StriveSanMateo.org
Per Capita - Emissions with Climate Action Plan (2020)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2005
2010
2015
2020
2030
2050
MTCO2e per capita
Reductions from CAP
Reductions from existing actions
Baseline
Forecast (no action)
Existing actions
Climate Action Plan (2020 update)
Targets
589 of 599

--- page 590 ---
2023 Technical Update
590 of 599

--- page 591 ---
9
StriveSanMateo.org
Changing Demographics
» The 2020 CAP assumed future 
demographics based on the 2030 
General Plan.
» The General Plan is currently being 
updated.
•
Assumes more people in the future than 
were assumed in the 2030 General Plan.
» The CAP 2023 Technical Update is 
part of Strive San Mateo 2040 General 
Plan.
591 of 599

--- page 592 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
Demographic Comparison
2019
2030
2040
Baseline 
conditions
2030 
General Plan
2040 
General Plan
2030 
General Plan
2040 
General Plan
Population
104,600
123,200
129,210
133,010
156,590
Households
39,770
48,180
49,260
50,830
59,840
Jobs
61,230
66,510
69,400
68,101
82,310
592 of 599

--- page 593 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
Consistency with New Regulations
» State adopted AB 1279 in September 2022.
• Sets new long-term GHG reduction target: 85% below 1990 levels 
and net carbon neutrality by 2045.
• Previous long-term target (established by Executive Order S-03-
05): 80% below 1990 level by 2050.
• No change to 2030 target (40% below 1990 levels).
» Climate Change Scoping Plan updated in December 
2022.
• No longer recommends use of per-capita GHG reduction targets for 
local governments.
• Recommends consistency with State reduction targets.
593 of 599

--- page 594 ---
Updates to CAP
594 of 599

--- page 595 ---
13
StriveSanMateo.org
Update Summary
» This is a technical update.
• Incorporates new 2019 GHG 
inventory.
• Updates forecast to align with the 
draft 2040 General Plan.
• Assesses additional reductions from 
new State, regional, and local 
actions.
• Re-quantifies GHG reduction 
strategies to match and build from 
current conditions and show a path 
to new GHG reduction targets. 
595 of 599

--- page 596 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
GHG Reduction Strategies
» City’s overall commitment to GHG reduction remains the 
same.
» No substantial changes to GHG reduction strategies.
• Minor changes to CF-4 to include other zero-emission heavy-duty 
vehicles.
» Increases performance assumptions to match current 
conditions and State/regional trends.
» No changes to implementation approach.
596 of 599

--- page 597 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
Progress to Target
Target
Emissions without CAP 
(2023 update)
Emissions with CAP 
(2023 update)
2030
40% below 1990 levels 
(339,880 MTCO2e)
10.25% below 1990 levels
(508,380 MTCO2e)
44.92% below 1990 levels 
(311,990 MTCO2e)
2045
85% below 1990 levels 
(84,970 MTCO2e) 
3.03% below 1990 levels
(549,320 MTCO2e)
85.78% below 1990 levels 
(84,970 MTCO2e)
» 2019 emissions: 520,410 MTCO2e (8% below 1990 levels)
597 of 599

--- page 598 ---
16
StriveSanMateo.org
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
2019
2030
2040
2045
MTCO2e 
Reductions from CAP
Reductions from existing actions
Baseline
Forecast (no action)
Existing actions
Climate Action Plan (2023 update)
Emissions with Climate Action Plan (2023)
Targets
598 of 599

--- page 599 ---
17
StriveSanMateo.org
Next Steps
» Commission review and recommendation of CAP 2023 
Technical Update.
» CAP will be part of General Plan review and adoption 
hearings.
» Adoption anticipated in early 2024.
599 of 599