source: packet.pdf
sha256: 27f8c3236636e708ac1c03364f294ecd35deda1d95f2ef0d013a7ac0e579076d
pages: 459
ocr_pages: 35
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
October 26, 2021
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE
AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 26, 2021
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 859 9338 4685 Passcode: 859751
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
1.
1919 O'Farrell Apartments - Project Approvals (PA-2020-037)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site Development Planning Application
for a property located at 1919 O'Farrell for 49 multifamily residential units and find the project exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) as a Class 32 Section 15332 In-Fill Development Projects Categorical
Exemption based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.

--- page 2 ---
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Zoning Code Clean-Up Amendments
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code as follows: Chapter 27.04,
“Definitions” to remove curb level and clarify floor area; Chapter 27.64, “Off-Street Parking and Loading” to clarify
on-street loading provisions and Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) provisions; Chapter 27.71, “Landscape
for Planning Applications” to clarify tree provisions; Chapter 27.78, “Variance” to clarify tree provisions; and Title
27, “Zoning Code” to update all references to the California Building Code.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
1919
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-5277
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development
MEETING DATE:
October 26, 2021 
SUBJECT:
1919 O'Farrell Street – New Four-Story, 49-unit, Multi-Family Apartment Building (PA-2020-037)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site Development Planning Applications for 
the construction of a new multi-family residential building with 49 units located at 1919 O'Farrell Street and determine 
the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further environmental review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in Attachment 1.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, Rocky Shen with DNA Design and Architecture, submitted a formal Planning Application on August 4, 
2020 to demolish an existing single story, 3,975 square-foot office building located at 1919 O’Farrell Street, and 
construct a new four story multi-family apartment building with 49 residential units, associated parking facilities, 
common and private open spaces, and other common area amenities. 
The Planning Commission reviewed this project at a Pre-application Study Session at its regular meeting on January 29, 
2020. The items discussed at the Study Session were the project impacts on traffic generation and pedestrian/bicycle 
circulation, the proposed mix of uses, preservation of heritage trees, site plan, and building design. Since the Study 
Session, the applicant has incorporated several revisions to the project in the formal planning application in response to 
comments made by the Planning Commission, the public, and City staff. The revisions include the preservation of the 
heritage trees along the western property line, elimination of the office use to provide a fully residential development, 
increased open space, and a more refined building design. The applicant did not address comments to provide 
landscaping adjacent to State Route 92 or to provide on-site guest parking.
Site Description
The project site consists of a 0.71-acre parcel at the end of the cul-de-sac on O’Farrell Street. The project site is adjacent 
to office uses and the Corte Bella Condominiums to the south, the Park 20 Apartments to the east, office uses to the 
west, and State Route 92 to the north. City Hall is also located southwest of the project site. A location map showing 
the project site’s vicinity is included in Attachment 2.

--- page 4 ---
Project Description
The project consists of a four-story, 55,463 square-foot multi-family residential building with 49 for-rent units. The 
proposed architectural style is best characterized as a contemporary inspired design based on its use of brick veneer, 
painted concrete, combination of horizontal cement board siding and vertical standing metal seam siding, and other 
materials to express various building volumes. The proposed units include a mix of one-, two- and three-bedrooms with 
a range of 746 to 1,556 square-feet in size. The project also provides 64 off-street parking stalls in a one-level below-
grade garage.
The project includes a total of 11,452 square-feet of common and private open spaces throughout the site, with 6,643 
square-feet of common open space in the proposed courtyard and grove of mature Redwood trees.  The courtyard is 
proposed to be 5,539 square-feet and includes sitting and dining areas, synthetic turf, and a community promenade 
while the grove of trees is proposed to be 1,104 square-feet and contains eight mature Redwood trees. A total of 4,809 
square-feet of private open space is provided in the form of balconies adjacent to the units. The balconies range from 
92 to 176 square-feet in size.
A full set of the project plans, which show all proposed improvements and project data, are included in Attachment 3.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Plan designation for the project site is Executive Office/High Density Multi-Family. The 
Mixed-Use Incentive land use category, as defined in Appendix B of the General Plan, allows for alternative 
development standards, such as increased floor area, to encourage housing developments ranging from low to high 
densities for this property. A list of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance to 
them is included in Attachment 1.
The project site is zoned E1-1/R4 (Executive Park/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use). The R4 overlay provides 
development standards pertaining to density, floor area ratio (FAR), setbacks, and open space for residential projects 
located in commercial or office zoning districts. 
The project conforms to the building height, lot coverage, and floor area ratio development standards of the City’s 
Zoning Code, Title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC). The proposed building height is 45 feet, which is in 
conformance with the maximum height limit of 45 feet. The project site contains approximately 44% at-grade open 
space where a minimum of 35% at-grade open space is required. Additionally, the project proposes a FAR of 1.79 where 
a maximum of 2.0 is allowed. The project’s density of 50 units per acre, or 69 units per acre with the additional 35% 
density bonus,  is the maximum residential density allowed under the City’s Zoning Code and State Density Bonus Law, 
which is described in greater detail below. The project is also requesting one incentive/concession and three waivers 
from additional development standards. With the approval of the requested incentive/ concession and waivers, the 
project will conform to all applicable development standards. A Factual Data Sheet listing the applicable Zoning Code 
standards and the project’s conformance to them is included in Attachment 4.
Site Plan and Architecture Review (SPAR) 
The project requires Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for the proposed site and building design, as 
required by the City’s Zoning Code (SMMC 27.08.030). Per the City’s Zoning Code, the Planning Commission shall 
approve the application if all of the following are found to exist:

The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the neighborhood;

The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City; 

The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and otherwise is in 
the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare;

--- page 5 ---

The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council, 
conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other 
municipal codes that exist on the site; and,

The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, and security.
The proposed site plan and building design are discussed in greater detail below. The Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) findings for approval are discussed in detail in Attachment 1. 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
The Site Development Code (SMMC 23.40) requires approval of a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) when 
major vegetation, consisting of trees with a trunk diameter of six inches or greater measured at forty-eight (48) inches 
above natural grade, is removed from a parcel of land in conjunction with the redevelopment of the parcel. The project 
proposes to remove 11 of the existing 23 on-site trees. Of the 11 trees to be removed, nine have a diameter greater 
than six inches at 48 inches above grade, including two Heritage Trees, which requires the processing of a Site 
Development Planning Application. The two remaining trees have a diameter less than six inches at 48 inches above 
grade and, therefore, do not require a permit for removal. 
Per the Site Development Code, Planning Commission shall approve the application if all concerns regarding surface 
grading, structure foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal are found to be 
addressed. The Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) findings for approval are discussed in detail in 
Attachment 1. 
Fence Exception
The applicant requests Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval to allow for an exception to the fence height 
limits, as permitted by the City’s Zoning Code (SMMC 27.84.020). The project proposes to locate a five-foot transformer 
access gate and five-foot Waxleaf Privet hedge screen within the front yard of the property in order to screen the 
transformer from public view and to make it compatible with the surrounding multi-family and office uses.  The 
enclosure and screening were also recommended as part of the project’s design review from Cannon Design Group. Per 
the City’s Zoning Code, the maximum height of fences and hedges within a front yard shall be three feet; however, an 
exception to the height and location requirements may be granted by the Planning Commission if the following findings 
are made:

The fence or wall height, location, design and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood;

Granting of the exception will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or materially 
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located, and shall 
not limit visibility of pedestrians, bicyclists, or motorists from streets, alleys or driveways; and,

Granting of the exception will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan.
The fence exception findings for approval are discussed in detail in Attachment 1.
State Density Bonus Law
The project is utilizing the provisions of State Density Bonus and Other Incentives (Government Code Section 65915). To 
comply with State Density Bonus Law and to implement the General Plan Housing Element, the City is required to 
provide increased residential density, reduced parking standards, as well as “incentives or concessions” and “waivers or 
reductions from development standards” for residential projects that provide senior housing units, child care facilities, 
or set aside a portion of units to be affordable to Very Low, Low, or Moderate-income households.

--- page 6 ---
The R4 overlay permits a maximum base density of 50 units per acre, which yields the subject 0.71-acre site 36 units. 
The applicant proposes to devote 11% of the base 36 residential units to the Very Low-income category (four units), 
which entitles the project to a 35% density bonus, resulting in a density of 69 units per acre, which permits a maximum 
of 49 units to be developed. As noted previously, the project is proposing the maximum of 49 units. 
State Density Bonus Law also allows the applicant to request one incessive/concession, reduced parking standards, and 
waivers from development standards. The applicant is requesting a reduced parking ratio of 0.5 space per unit and an 
incentive/concession to allow for the use of an automated mechanical “puzzle” lift parking system for 39 of the 64 off-
street parking stalls. The proposed mechanical parking system allows residents independent access to and from their 
parking space through the system’s vertical and horizontal arrangement. The applicant is also requesting waivers for 
reduced setbacks of five feet, a reduced sidewalk width of five feet, and to eliminate the required overhead parking 
space clearance for the mechanical parking system. 
The applicant’s Density Bonus request letter that details the justification for the requested incentive/concession and 
waivers is included as Attachment 5.
Housing Crisis Act
The applicant submitted a Preliminary Application under the Housing Crisis Act (HCA) in accordance with Government 
Code Sections 65589.5 and 65941.1 on August 4, 2020. As a project consisting of only multi-family residential uses, the 
project is eligible for a Preliminary Application under HCA which prohibits the City from imposing ordinances, policies, 
and standards adopted after the Preliminary Application was submitted unless certain circumstances exist, including 
lessening impacts of the project under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), or if the applicant revises the 
project such that the number of units or square-footage changes by 20% or more.
Housing Accountability Act
Government Code Section 65589.5 outlines application review limitations for projects subject to the Housing 
Accountability Act (HAA). As a development project that is at least two-thirds housing, the project is subject to the HAA, 
which is intended to limit a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing development 
projects infeasible if objective standards are met. As proposed, this project meets all applicable objective standards in 
the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy documents, and, therefore, the local agency may only deny or 
reduce the density if certain findings pertaining to adverse impacts to codified, objective public health or safety 
standards are made.
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
The Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan contains sidewalk design guidelines to improve the pedestrian network citywide. 
Based on the project’s proposed use and street parking configuration, the appliable sidewalk standard is “A.5 
Residential Type C New Development”, which consists of the following components: 

5’-6” Sidewalk through-zone

6’-0” Landscape strip

0’-6” Curb

10’-0” to 15’-0” minimum Building setback
As described in the State Density Bonus Law section above, the applicant has requested a waiver from the sidewalk 
standards to provide a 5’-0” sidewalk through-zone and a 5’-0” building setback, with no landscape strip. The project 
conforms to the applicable sidewalk standard based on its provision of a 0’-6” curb.
Bicycle Master Plan

--- page 7 ---
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure 
improvements to support bicycle and micromobility use (e.g., bikeshare and electric scooters). In conformance with the 
Zoning Code and Bicycle Master Plan, the project provides short-term and long-term bicycle parking facilities on-site in 
excess of the required ratios outlined in the Zoning Code. 
The applicant will also be required to contribute the project’s fair-share to the feasibility study of an overcrossing 
connecting O’Farrell Street and Bovet Road via a shared-use bicycle and pedestrian path that crosses over State Route 
92. Noted as a Medium-High Priority project in the Bicycle Master Plan, the overcrossing provides a pathway designed 
for bicyclists and pedestrians. Examples elsewhere in the City include the San Francisco Bay Trail, portions of the Foster 
City Levee Pedway/Bikeway north of State Route 92, and Pacific Boulevard in Bay Meadows. 
Design Review
Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group, the City’s design review consultant, reviewed the project’s site and building 
design on a preliminary basis prior to the January 29, 2020 Study Session. At that stage of the application, Larry 
Cannon’s comments and recommendations for improvements included:

Revise the scale and character of the building design to be more compatible with the surrounding buildings;

Enhance the sense of entry to the building and improve pedestrian access;

Add buffer landscaping along the highway right-of-way; 

Preserve the existing Redwood trees and provide landscaping; and

Provide an enclosed entry lobby.
As previously noted, the Planning Commission reviewed the project’s site plan and architectural design at the January 
29, 2020 Study Session and provided the following comments and recommendations:

Remove the office component to create a fully residential development;

Preserve the Redwood trees on the west side of the site and provide landscaping adjacent to State Route 92;

Incorporate more open space throughout the site;

Soften the pedestrian access with different materials and more plantings; 

Provide on-site guest parking spaces; and

Incorporate the preliminary design review comments from Cannon Design Group.
Since then, the applicant has refined the building design and site plan which have been fully reviewed by City staff and 
Cannon Design Group. Revisions to the project design include the elimination of the office component, the preservation 
of all Redwood trees, an increase in the open space, and improvements to the building entrance and pedestrian access 
to the site. The applicant has also revised the building design to improve the project’s scale and architectural 
compatibility with surrounding buildings. 
In his design review comment letter in response to the formal planning application, Larry Cannon notes that the 
project’s design has greatly improved since the study session. To further refine the building design, Larry Cannon’s 
recommendations for improvements on the design included:

Explore more direct and accessible routes to the open space areas;

Enclose the ground-mounted transformer and provide landscape buffers around the transformer; and

Explore ways to add buffer landscaping along the north property line.
In the current design, the applicant has incorporated screening of the above ground transformer in consideration of 
Larry Cannon’s comments. Larry Cannon’s final design review comment letter is included in Attachment 6.

--- page 8 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No public comments were submitted to City Staff at the time this report was published. 
Public comments received after publishing of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and 
consideration at the Public Hearing.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Categorical Exemption, Class 32 Section 15332 (In-Fill Development Projects), is recommended for the project 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Qualification for the exemption requires that 
the project is consistent with all applicable General Plan policies and Zoning Code regulations; the site is located within 
an urban setting on a site less than five acres in size; it has no value as habitat for endangered, rare, or threatened 
species; and, would continue to be served by all utilities and public services. In addition, as conditioned, approval of the 
project would not result in any significant impacts relating to traffic, noise, air quality, or water quality as discussed 
further below. The proposed project meets the above criteria and qualifies for the exemption.
Technical Studies
Transportation Impact Assessment 
Fehr and Peers, the City’ traffic consultant, conducted a Transportation Impact Assessment (TIA) to analyze the 
proposed project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of CEQA and the City’s General Plan. 
Overall, the TIA concludes that the project is exempt from a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis and will not present 
any adverse Level of Service (LOS) effects.
For the purposes of CEQA, the TIA evaluates the project utilizing the metric of VMT. This analysis method is required 
under Senate Bill 743, effective July 1, 2020, which has a target of reducing single vehicle occupancy trips rather than 
increasing roadway capacity. At the time of the project’s formal application and Preliminary Application under SB330 
were filed, the City had not adopted its current TIA Guidelines. Instead the City followed the State’s Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis. The TIA concludes 
that the project is exempt from a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis because it meets the interim OPR standards of 
being within a half mile of high-quality transit services, having a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, and providing no 
more than the minimum parking required by the City.
Fehr and Peers also conducted analyses for Trip Generation and Distribution and Level of Service (LOS) at the 
intersection of O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue in accordance with the City’s General Plan criteria. Traffic 
conditions at this intersection were analyzed for the weekday AM and PM peak hours, when demands on the roadway 
system are greatest, and evaluated in four different scenarios: Existing Conditions, Existing Plus Project Conditions, 
Cumulative Conditions (2040), and Cumulative Plus Project Conditions (2040). The TIA concludes that the project would 
generate the following traffic conditions:
Trip Generation and Distribution

9 new AM peak hour trips (1 inbound/ 8 outbound)

12 new PM peak hour trips (9 inbound/ 3 outbound)

156 net new project trips
Level of Service (LOS) 

LOS for Cumulative and Cumulative Plus Project Conditions for the year 2040 decrease to LOS D for AM peak 
period trips.

LOS for all other conditions remain the same at LOS C

--- page 9 ---
As the project-generated traffic will not result in the study intersection operating at an unacceptable level of service, 
the project will not cause adverse LOS effects. Additionally, the project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, 
pedestrian, transit circulation, or hazards and emergency access. The Fehr and Peers’ Transportation Impact 
Assessment is included as Attachment 7.
Transportation Demand Management
The project will implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan prepared by Steer, the City’s 
transportation consultant. The TDM Plan includes trip reduction strategies with the goal of further reducing overall 
single-occupancy vehicle trips. The project site is not within a specific plan area and therefore does not have a specific 
minimum trip reduction goal.  Further, the project is not required to implement trip reduction measures as a CEQA 
mitigation measure given that the project is exempt from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) screening.
Nonetheless, the project will implement the TDM measures below, which are programmatic strategies aimed at 
encouraging the use of sustainable forms of transportation:

On-site TDM Coordinator;

Institutionalization of the TDM Program through the apartment lease; 

New Resident Packets; 

TDM Communications through a webpage, resident newsletters, and social media channels;

Multimodal Wayfinding Signage; and Bike Education/ Workshops.
In addition, the TDM Plan includes other optional measures for the developer to utilize in the future. Other specific trip 
reduction measures and strategies are indicated in the project’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Checklist, included in 
Attachment 8. The Transportation Demand Management Plan is included in Attachment 9.
Noise & Vibration
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. (Illingworth) prepared a Noise and Vibration Assessment for the project. Illingworth identified 
potential noise impacts including temporary or permanent noise increases in excess of established standards and 
exposure to excessive groundborne vibration due to construction. Of the potential noise impacts, Illingworth 
determined the operational noise and permanent noise level increases to be a less-than-significant impact. Illingworth, 
however, found the temporary construction noise and exposure to excessive ground borne vibration due to 
construction to be a potentially significant impact. The project includes conditions of approval integrating Illingworth’s 
recommendations, which reduces the excess noise and vibration levels to less-than-significant levels. The Noise and 
Vibration Assessment is included as Attachment 10. 
Air Quality & Greenhouse Gas Emission
Illingworth also prepared a Construction Community Risk Assessment, or an Air Quality report. Illingworth identified 
potential air quality impacts from dust and exhaust fumes during the construction phase and from construction 
equipment that has a high level of low diesel particulate matter exhaust emissions. The project includes conditions of 
approval integrating Illingworth’s recommendations, which will reduce the air quality impact to less-than-significant 
levels. The Construction Community Risk Assessment is included as Attachment 11.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

--- page 10 ---

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be 
added to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A - Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 5 – Density Bonus Letter
Att 6 – Cannon Design Group Final Review Letter
Att 7 – Transportation Impact Assessment
Att 8 – CAP checklist
Att 9 – Transportation Demand Management Plan
Att 10 – Noise and Vibration Assessment
Att 11 – Construction Community Risk Assessment
STAFF CONTACT
Somer Smith, AICP, Associate Planner 
ssmith@cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7214

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATIONS FOR AN EXCEPTION TO FENCE HEIGHT LIMITS AND TO CONSTRUCT 49 RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND 
ASSOCIATED PARKING, LANDSCAPING, ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS, AND COMMON AREAS AT 1919 
O’FARRELL STREET APN 039‐030‐340. 
(PA‐2020‐037, 1919 O’FARRELL STREET APARTMENTS)   
 
WHEREAS, Rocky Shen of DNA Design and Architecture (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted 
a planning application PA‐2020‐037 with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and 
Site  Development  Planning  Application  (SDPA)  for  an  exception  to  fence  height  limits  and  to  construct  49 
residential  units  and  associated  parking,  landscaping,  roadway  improvements,  and  common  areas  at  1919 
O’Farrell St. (039‐030‐340) (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and, 
WHEREAS, San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 requires final action from the 
Planning Commission for projects which include Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects of six or more 
dwelling units; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15332 In‐Fill 
Development Projects; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the  Project on October 26, 2021, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered; and, 
 
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A; 
 
NOW,  THEREFORE,  THE  PLANNING  COMMISSION  OF  THE  CITY  OF  SAN  MATEO,  CALIFORNIA,  HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that: 
 
1. The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the provisions 
of CEQA under CEQA Section 15332. 
a. The  project  is  consistent  with  the  applicable  General  Plan  designation  and  all  applicable 
General Plan policies as well as the applicable zoning designation and regulations.  
b. The project site is located within an urban setting on a project site less than five acres (0.71 
acres).   
c. The project site has no value for endangered, rare, or threatened species. The project will not 
have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or sensitive natural community, or

--- page 12 ---
on any species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status species, identified in local 
or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of Fish and Game 
or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
The project will not have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected wetlands through 
direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other means, and will not substantially 
interfere with the movement of any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or 
with established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native 
wildlife nursery sites. 
The  project  will  not  conflict  with  any  local  policies  or  ordinances  protecting  biological 
resources,  such  as  a  tree  preservation  policy  or  ordinance,  nor  will  it  conflict  with  the 
provisions of an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan, 
or other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan.   
The project will not impact any threatened or endangered biological resources, and buildings 
have existed on the site. The project will include the removal of 11 trees, and planting of five 
new trees on the project site. The project applicant will pay a fee in lieu for the difference 
between the number of trees removed and the number of new tress to be planted. 
d. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to traffic. Fehr and 
Peers, the City’ traffic consultant, prepared a Transportation Impact Assessment (TIA). The 
TIA concludes that while the project is expected to generate 21 new peak hour trips, it will 
not result in the study intersection operating at an unacceptable level of service and will not 
cause  adverse  Level  of  Service  (LOS)  effects.  The  TIA  also  determines  that  the  project  is 
exempt from a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis. 
Steer, the City’s transportation consultant, prepared a Transportation Demand Management 
(TDM)  plan.  The  TDM  plan  contains  numerous  measures  outlined  to  encourage  use  of 
alternative transportation modes. It should be noted that due to the proximity of the project 
site to an existing, well‐established transit system (Caltrain & SamTrans), the estimated trips 
will likely be less than anticipated, thus, the project will have a minimal or less impact to the 
existing traffic load.  
The project will not conflict with an applicable congestion management program and will not 
result in a change in air traffic patterns.  The project will not substantially increase hazards 
due  to  a  design  feature  or  incompatible  uses,  result  in  inadequate  emergency  access  or 
inadequate  parking  capacity,  conflict  with  other  adopted  policies,  plans,  or  programs 
regarding  public  transit,  bicycle,  or  pedestrian  facilities,  or  otherwise  decrease  the 
performance  or  safety  of  such  facilities.  All  safety  elements  will  be  designed  to  meet  all 
applicable California Building, Fire, Safety and any other requirements. 
e. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to noise. The project 
will not expose persons to or generate noise levels, groundborne vibration, or groundborne 
noise levels in excess of standards established in the local general plan or noise ordinance, or 
applicable standards, and will not create a substantial permanent increase in ambient noise 
levels in the project vicinity above existing  levels.     
The project may expect a substantial temporary or periodic increase in groundborne vibration 
and ambient noise levels in the project vicinity above levels existing without the project, but

--- page 13 ---
only during construction.  Noise generated during construction would differ depending on the 
construction phase and the type and amount of equipment used at the construction site.  The 
applicant will be required to abide by the conditions of approval, construction work hours, 
and comply with the City’s Noise Ordinance.    
f. 
Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to air quality. The 
project will not conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable air quality plan, 
violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially  to an existing or  projected air 
quality violation, result in a cumulatively consideration net increase of any criteria pollutant, 
expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations, or create objectionable 
odors affecting a substantial number of people.   
The  project  will  have  limited  impact  to  air  quality  and  would  not  subject  customers  or 
employees of nearby businesses, visitors, residents, and/or neighbors to objectionable odors. 
The  project  would  not  result  in  additional  exposure  of  sensitive  receptors  to  substantial 
pollutant concentrations in the long term but has the potential to generate dust and other 
pollutants,  during  demolition,  grading,  and  construction.    However,  the  impact  of  dust 
generated by demolition, grading and/or construction activities is temporary in nature and 
limited to site preparation and future construction of the new residential development.  The 
City of San Mateo’s Public Works Department will impose conditions of approval to minimize 
dust and vehicle emissions during grading and construction activities.   
g. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to water quality. The 
project  will  not  violate  any  water  quality  standards  or  waste  discharge  requirements  or 
substantially  deplete  groundwater  supplies  or  interfere  substantially  with  groundwater 
recharge as the site is not serviced by nearby wells, nor will it alter the existing drainage 
pattern of the site or area, create or contribute runoff water which would exceed the capacity 
of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems.   
The  project  will  not  otherwise  substantially  degrade  water  quality  or  place  housing  or 
structures within a 100‐year flood hazard area since the project is not located within a 100‐
year flood plain.  The project will not expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss, 
injury or death involving flooding, including flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or dam 
or create inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow since the project is not located in an area 
of potential inundation as identified in the City’s General Plan. 
h. The  site  is  adequately  served  by  all  required  utilities.  The  project  would  not  exceed 
wastewater treatment requirements of the applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board, 
require  or  result  in  the  construction  of  new  water  or  wastewater  treatment  facilities  or 
expansion  of  existing  facilities,  require  or  result  in  the  construction  of  new  storm  water 
drainage  facilities  or  expansion  of  existing  facilities.    The  Public  Works  department  has 
determined  that  there  is  adequate  infrastructure  capacity  serving  the  site  to  adequately 
handle the increases. 
i. 
The site is adequately served by all required public services. The project would not result in 
substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision of new or physically altered 
governmental facilities, need for new or physically altered governmental facilities, in order to 
maintain acceptable service ratios, response times or other performance objectives for Fire

--- page 14 ---
protection, Police protection, Schools, Parks, or other public facilities.  The project will be 
subject  to  various  impact  fees,  and  is  located  in  an  urbanized  area  served  by  municipal 
services, therefore it is not anticipated to significantly impact public services or require the 
additional construction of public facilities as the proposed multi‐family residential use can be 
accommodated with existing levels of service.   
 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS 
FOLLOWS: 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a.   The Project conforms with Policy LU 1.5 which encourages buildings to maintain the maximum 
height limits contained in the Building Height Map. The proposed building height is 45 feet, which 
is in conformance with the maximum height limit of 45 feet. 
b.   The Project conforms with Specific Area Policy PA 8.2 which encourages high density residential 
developments between Elkhorn Court and O'Farrell Street with heights up to four stories, as 
delineated on the Building Height and Intensity Plans. The Project, located on O’Farrell Street, is 
proposed to consist of a four‐story, residential apartment building that provides the maximum 
residential density allowed under the City’s Zoning Code and State Density Bonus Law. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Circulation Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy C 2.5 of the Circulation Element in that a Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) has been prepared for this project. The TIA concludes that the Project is exempt 
from a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis because it is within a half mile of high‐quality transit 
services, has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, and provides no more than the minimum parking 
required by the City. 
b.  The  Project  conforms  to  policies  C  2.10  of  the  Circulation  Element  in  that  a  Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Plan has been prepared for this project. Although the TIA concluded 
that the Project was exempt from a VMT analysis, the TDM Plan nonetheless recommends further 
trip reduction measures.  
 
3. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Housing Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy H2.4 of the Housing Element in that the Project provides new 
affordable  housing  opportunities  in  conformance  with  the  City’s  below‐market‐rate 
requirements. 
 
4. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Urban Design Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.1 of the Urban Design Element in that the Project has been 
reviewed by the City’s design consultant and was found to comply with the City’s Multi‐family 
Design  Guidelines  which  encourages  the  preservation  and  enhancement  of  neighborhood 
character through building sale, materials, architectural style, quality of construction, open space, 
location of parking and lot size. The design and use of high quality materials for the proposed four‐
story building will create a cohesive transition between the existing multi‐family developments 
and commercial office buildings that are lower in height to the south.

--- page 15 ---
b. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.4 of the Urban Design Element in that all on‐site parking for 
the Project will be located underground.  
c. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.5 of the Urban Design Element in that the Project will provide 
two common open space areas, exceeding the minimum open space requirement.  
 
5. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Conservation and Open Space Element of the City’s 
General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policies C/OS 6.1, C/OS 6.3, and C/OS 6.4 of the Conservation and Open 
Space Element in that the Project will preserve ten of the 12 existing heritage trees on site. The 
original Project design proposed removing an entire grove of heritage trees, consisting of eight 
mature  Redwood  trees,  along  the  western  property  line.    The  Project  design  has  since  been 
modified to retain the eight Redwood trees and preserve the character of the grove.  
 
6. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Noise Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policies N 1.1 and N 1.2 of the Noise Element in that a Noise and Vibration 
Report  has  been  completed  for  the  Project  which  provides  long‐term  recommended  noise 
reduction measures and  requires an  acoustical analysis at later stages of the building permit 
review process. Additionally, the Project’s Conditions of Approval will require noise reduction 
measures during the construction phase of the Project. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE 1919 O'FARRELL APARTMENTS, PA‐2020‐037 AT 1919 O’FARRELL (039‐030‐340) BASED 
UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL TO THIS RESOLUTION AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION: 
 
1. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that: 
i. The building design has varying heights, various wall articulations, and will be constructed 
with a mix of high quality building materials.  
ii. The  edges  of  the  building  have  a  smaller  apparent  mass  which  provides  a  transition 
between the one to three‐story structures to the south of the project. 
iii. The project incorporates two open space areas that utilize a mix of planting materials and 
pavement treatments to create useable communal areas. 
iv. One of the open space areas will allow the eight heritage Redwood trees to remain on the 
site.  
 
b. 
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City 
in that: 
i. The project is consistent with the General Plan and Municipal Code. 
ii. The project consists of 49 multi‐family dwelling units, including four affordable units, for 
the residents of the San Mateo. 
iii. The development meets the applicable sections of the Multi‐family Design Guidelines.

--- page 16 ---
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The  49  unit  apartment  building  will  improve  the  surrounding  area  by  providing 
additional housing units that are in proximity to highway access, public transit, and 
proposed bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure.  
ii. The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and 
the City’s building security code. 
 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. 
 
e. The  development  will  not  adversely  affect  matters  regarding  police  protection,  crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval. 
 
2. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) for the removal 
of major vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following 
findings: 
a. The project will result in the removal of nine existing trees, of which two qualify as Heritage 
Trees.  The  removal  of  these  trees  is  necessary  to  accommodate  the  development  of  the 
proposed project. All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate landscaping to 
both enhance the site and create necessary buffers between surrounding properties.  
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of approval 
requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive 
on‐site landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or through the payment of a fee to 
the City’s tree planting fund. 
 
3. The Fence Exception (Municipal Code Section 27.84.020) for the five‐foot‐tall transformer access 
gate and screen and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following 
findings: 
a. The fence or wall height, location, design and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with 
the character of the neighborhood. The transformer’s access gate and Waxleaf Privet hedge 
screen are proposed to be five‐feet tall in order to conceal the transformer from the public’s 
view. and make it compatible with the surrounding multi‐family and office uses.   
b. Granting of the exception will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or 
welfare or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in 
which  the  property  is  located,  and  shall  not  limit  visibility  of  pedestrians,  bicyclists,  or 
motorists from streets, alleys or driveways; and 
i. The fence exception will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or 
welfare or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood 
as the project site is located in the arc of a cul‐de‐sac and no vehicular traffic will be 
generated from the area between the end of the cul‐de‐sac and the enclosure. 
ii. The transformer enclosure will not limit visibility due to the arc length of the cul‐de‐sac 
at  the  proposed  location  of  the  transformer.  The  cul‐de‐sac  arc  will  allow  residents,

--- page 17 ---
bicyclists  and  pedestrians  to  view  the  entire  street  without  interference  from  the 
transformer enclosure. 
 
c. Granting of the exception will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan.

--- page 18 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
EXHIBIT A 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL PA-2020-037, 1919 O’FARRELL ST. APARTMENTS (SPAR + SDPA) 
1919 OFARRELL ST 1, SAN MATEO, 
PARCEL # 039030340 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions 
of approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required 
compliance. Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required 
compliance. 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
1 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a site survey of entire parcel stamped 
and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California.  The survey shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following:  location and dimensions of property 
line, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic contour 
lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc.  The purpose of the site 
survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback dimensions, 
heights of buildings from established contours, compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance, etc. (BUILDING) 
2 CALGREEN – The building shall be designed to include the green building measures 
specified as mandatory in the application checklists contained in the California 
Green Building Standards Code.  The applicant shall incorporate the checklist along 
with a notation on the checklist to specify where the information can be located 
on the plans, details, or specifications. (BUILDING) 
3 SOILS REPORT – The applicant shall provide a stamped, signed, and dated soil 
investigation report containing design recommendations to the Building Official.  
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of 
materials disclosed by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations.  
Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil strength, the effect of 
moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, compressibility, liquefaction, 
seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and expansiveness.  
Additionally, the applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated letter from

--- page 19 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
stating the following: 
(A) The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in 
the soil investigation. 
(B) The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
has been retained to provide soil site observation and provide periodic and 
final reports to the City of San Mateo. 
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or 
Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating 
the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work 
substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations. 
(BUILDING) 
4 DEMOLITION – Demolition permit(s) shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.  Safeguards during construction shall 
be provided in accordance with Chapter 33 of the California Building Code.  Prior 
to the permit issuance, a completed Worksheet/Application and a Demolition Plan 
must be submitted and approved by the Building Official.  This form is available at 
the Building Division Counter.  (BUILDING) 
5 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS – A pre-construction 
conference shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and 
applicant for the purpose of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-
site procedures.  The applicant shall be represented by his design and construction 
staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  Departments having conditions of 
approval for the project will represent the City. This meeting shall be held prior to 
issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site Development Permit, 
and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. 
(BUILDING) 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 6  INITIAL SITE INSPECTION – Prior to the issuance of demolition permits, the Project 
Arborist is to upload a letter with photos via the CSS Portal verifying that all tree 
protection measures are properly implemented.  The Applicant shall adhere to any 
schedule of future inspections required by the Building Division.  (PARKS AND 
RECREATION) 
Planning Division (PA) 
7 
LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS – All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 27.71 
of the Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on project 
plans:

--- page 20 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(A) A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting areas 
except in areas of turfgrass or annuals. 
(B) The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape 
contractor or General Contractor for a Plant Establishment Maintenance Period 
consisting of three (3) growing season months (March through October) for all 
proposed landscape areas.  All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds.  All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a 
healthy growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent 
plant materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans.  
(PLANNING) 
8 
VECTOR CONTROL PLAN – Prior to the issuance of a Site Development Permit or 
demolition building permit, whichever is issued first, the applicant shall implement 
and conform to, upon review and approval by the Zoning Administrator, a plan for 
the control and removal of rodents and other pests to prevent infestation of 
adjacent land uses and surrounding neighborhoods. This plan shall include pest 
control measures required during all phases of construction, and also for a period 
of six months after the completion of construction.  (PLANNING) 
9 
BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) RENTAL UNITS AGREEMENT – Pursuant to Municipal 
Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 135 (2010), the applicant shall enter into 
and record a Below Market Rate Affordability Restriction Agreement to provide 
BMR units. This also includes payment of below market rate program in-lieu fee 
for fractional units as outlined in the City of San Mateo Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule.  (PLANNING) 
10 RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The applicant shall record the final 
approved planning application conditions of approval document at the San Mateo 
County Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall submit proof of recordation in the 
form of a recorded document that includes a confirmation sticker with the 
recordation evidence.   This document shall be recorded prior to the issuance of 
the demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PLANNING) 
11 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION – All building permit 
plans, details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the 
approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, 
project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall 
be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the proposed 
modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 
Modifications. (PLANNING) 
12 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall 
check with the Project Planner to determine whether any outstanding planning 
applications fees exist, and those fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the first 
building permit.  (PLANNING) 
13 REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT – All on-site signage will require a separate permit that is 
issued through the Building Division.  All signs shall conform to the standards 
delineated in the Sign Code.  No signage is approved as part of this Planning 
Application. The applicant will be responsible for obtaining separate permits for 
signage through the Building Division. (PLANNING) 
14 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – Final plans shall include all the Conditions of  
Approval beginning on sheet 2 of the plans.  (PLANNING) 
15 HERITAGE TREE PROTECTION – The applicant shall protect all heritage trees 
designated to remain from damage during construction.  Tree protection shall 
comply with all provisions of the Heritage Tree Ordinance, approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved project arborist's report, and any 
requirements imposed by the City. The following tree protection measures shall be 
shown on building permit drawings:  
(A) All recommendations for tree protection contained in the approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved project arborist's report, and/or 
additional requirements imposed by the City. 
(B) Protective fencing shall be located at the drip line of existing major vegetation 
to remain. This protective fencing shall be constructed of solid wood, chain link, 
or other solid materials subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator. 
In addition, the following requirements shall be complied with at all times during 
construction: 
(C) Oil, gas, chemicals, or construction materials shall not be stored within the drip 
line of trees that are designated to be preserved. 
(D) Signs, wires, or other types of obstructions shall not be attached to trees. 
(E) Trenching under the drip line of trees is to be avoided.  If trenching is necessary, 
trenches are to be hand dug and major roots retained.   
All tree protection measures shall be constructed prior to issuance of a grading 
permit, demolition permit, or building permit. The Project Arborist shall submit a 
letter and photos to the Project Planner verifying that all tree protection measures 
are properly implemented prior to the issuance of the first building permit.   
(PLANNING)

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
16 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF TREES AND TREE  
REPLACEMENT/IN LIEU FEES –The applicant shall obtain a Site Development Permit 
from the Planning Division for removal of existing trees with a diameter of 6 inches 
or larger, prior to the issuance of a Site Development Permit or demolition building 
permit, whichever is issued first. The applicant shall plant trees on the project site 
equivalent to the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed or pay a fee in 
lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule.  (PLANNING) 
Public Works Department (PA) 
17 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant must obtain 
an encroachment permit, post the required bonds and insurance, and provide a 
one (1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right-of-way or 
easements prior to any work being done.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
18 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, 
including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable.  The traffic control plan 
shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements. 
A site logistics plan is required for each phase of operation.  The plan, at a 
minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
19 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay 
Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean 
Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-
Related Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
20 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs 
Screening 
Assessment 
Form 
located 
here: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements  The Form shall 
be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
21 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall 
be required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all 
engineering, inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check 
and construction of the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be $30,000.00.  
Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
cannot proceed until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be required to 
increase the deposit at the discretion of the City, for any costs in excess of the 
deposit.  Invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 30 days of 
receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full.  The City will refund 
any portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
22 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the 
vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor.  Grading plans shall show 
existing topo and features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall 
show existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, 
slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
23 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all 
project fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
24 CALTRANS PERMIT – Prior to the issuance of a foundation building permit, the 
applicant must submit evidence to the Public Works Department of approval by 
the State of California for the performance of any work within the State right of 
way.  If the City is required to be a party to the permit application and a fee is 
required, the applicant shall reimburse the City for its cost. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
25 TIE-BACK AGREEMENT – If the shoring system required to perform the excavation 
for the project includes tie-backs that encroach into the public right-of-way, the 
Applicant shall execute and record the City's standard tie-back agreement prior to 
the issuance of the shoring building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
26 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan.  Said submittal shall be approved by the Public Works Department 
prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, building permit, or site 
development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is 
issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
27 PERMITS FROM OTHER AGENCIES – It is the applicant's responsibility to get permits 
from all affected agencies, including but not limited to PG&E, Mid-Peninsula 
Water, and Caltrans.  Copies of these permits shall be provided to the Public Works 
Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this 
permit, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
28 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM – The building shall be provided with a minimum 
of 3 KW solar photovoltaic system. (BUILDING)

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
29 ALL ELECTRIC-BUILDING – The building shall be designed, constructed, and 
equipped as all electric-building per Section 23.24.040(b) of the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code. (BUILDING) 
30 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – Water conservation in landscaping 
shall comply with the provisions of Section 23.72 of the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code. (BUILDING) 
Fire Department (PA) 
31 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system 
throughout the single-family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the 
California Residential Code. Fire sprinkler plans shall be a deferred submittal. The 
fire sprinkler plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee prior to issuance of a fire sprinkler permit. (FIRE) 
32 FIRE FLOW – The project shall meet the fire flow rate and duration requirements 
of the California Fire Code. The fire flow information shall be submitted to the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the 
building permit. (FIRE) 
33 SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all fire plans in conjunction with the 
superstructure building permit plans. The plans are subject to review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the superstructure 
building permit plans. (FIRE) 
34 WATER SUPPLY – All city/district owned water systems and on-site water systems 
shall be looped with two points of connection to the satisfaction of the City 
Engineer. They shall meet the requirements of State Department of Health 
Services, the City’s Public Works Department and the Fire Marshal. The water 
supply information shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for 
review and approval prior to the issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
35 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install a minimum of ______ public/private 
fire hydrant(s) spaced as per the SMC Fire ordinance.  All fire hydrants used for fire 
flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2½ inch and (1) 4½ inch outlet.  Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure.  Water 
supply for fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water 
purveyor’s specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved 
operable PRIOR to any combustible construction materials being placed on the 
site.  Staged construction shall insure that the necessary water supply is 
maintained from stage to stage in the construction planning. The letter shall be 
submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval before 
the issuance of a fire sprinkler permit. (FIRE)

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
36 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – An approved fire control room shall be provided for this 
building.  There shall be direct access to the room directly from the exterior of the 
building.  Refer to local ordinance for details. The fire control room shall be 
indicated on the building permit set of plans submitted to the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the building 
permit. (FIRE) 
37 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans 
that all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building 
permit submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
38 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC 
Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation 
purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fee shall be 
determined upon approval of the final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the 
issuance of the building permit for the park impact fee.  The park in-lieu fee shall 
be paid prior to the release of the final map for recordation and the park impact 
fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit.  If a project with an 
approved tentative map is issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final 
map, the applicant shall be subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior 
to the issuance of the first building superstructure permit. (PARKS). 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
39 INTERIOR NOISE LEVELS – As required in the Noise and Vibration Assessment 
prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 26, 2021, the following noise 
insulation features shall be incorporated into the proposed project to reduce 
interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less: 
(A) Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, as determined by 
the local building official, for all residential and retail units, so that windows 
can be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and 
achieve the interior noise standards. 
(B) Preliminary calculations indicate that residential units located along the 
northern building façade would require windows and doors with a minimum 
rating of 32 to 38 STC to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
(C) Residential units located along the eastern façade would require windows and 
doors with minimum STC rating of 28 to 36 to meet the interior noise threshold 
of 45 dBA Ldn.

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(D) Residential units located along the western façade would require windows and 
doors with minimum STC rating of 28 to 36 to meet the interior noise threshold 
of 45 dBA Ldn. 
(E) The applicant’s licensed acoustical consultant shall prepare a detailed analysis 
of interior residential noise levels resulting from all exterior sources during the 
design phase pursuant to requirements set forth in the State Building Code and 
in compliance with the levels established in the San Mateo General Plan. The 
study will review the final site plan, building elevations, and floor plans prior to 
construction and recommend building treatments to reduce residential interior 
noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower. Treatments would include, but are not 
limited to, sound-rated windows and doors, sound-rated wall and window 
constructions, acoustical caulking, protected ventilation openings, etc. The 
specific determination of what noise insulation treatments are necessary shall 
be conducted on a unit-by-unit basis during final design of the project. A copy 
of the analysis, including the description of the necessary noise control 
treatments, shall be submitted to the City as part of the building permit 
drawings for this project. (PLANNING) 
40 LOCATION AND FULL SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND 
DEVICES INCLUDING TRANSFORMERS AND BACK FLOW PREVENTORS – All ground 
level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices 
(“Items”) shall be shown on the building permit plans, consistent with the 
approved planning application plans.  All Items shall be fully screened on all four 
sides from public view by a solid wall, landscaping, and/or solid wood fence that 
complies with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.84 unless otherwise 
approved in this Planning Application. These Items shall be setback as far as 
feasible from street frontages and shall be fully screened with landscaping or other 
screening material. The building permit plans shall show the location and screening 
of these items and this condition shall be shall be addressed on the construction 
plans submitted for any demolition permit, building permit, or site development 
permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first; 
however; the final location and required screening of all Items shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING) 
41 RECEPTOR EXPOSURE REDUCTION MEASURES – As required in the Air Quality 
Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 13, 2021, the project 
shall include the following measures to minimize long-term increased cancer risk 
and annual PM2.5 exposure for new project occupants: 
(A) Install air filtration for the entire residential building. Air filtration 
devices shall be rated MERV13 or higher. To ensure adequate health protection 
to sensitive receptors (i.e., residents), this ventilation system, whether

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
mechanical or passive, shall filter all fresh air that would be circulated into the 
dwelling units.  
(B) 
The ventilation system shall be designed to keep the building at 
positive pressure when doors and windows are closed to reduce the intrusion 
of unfiltered outside air into the building. (PLANNING) 
42 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical 
equipment must be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall, in conformance 
with the approved planning application. Rooftop screening shall be constructed 
with the same building materials as the building exterior, or other compatible 
materials as approved by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator. 
(PLANNING) 
Police Department (PA) 
43 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit 
plans shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of telephone 
entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior 
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These 
access systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior 
of the building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations 
that lead to secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system 
placement location is subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or 
his/her designee, prior to the approval of the first building permit for the project. 
Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of Police or his/her designee 
at the time of installation. (POLICE) 
44 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans shall 
include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures and lighting 
levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. The 
photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines. The point-by-point 
photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by 
five feet across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the 
nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  Photometric calculations including maximum foot-
candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to minimum 
uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be included on the plan 
submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided on the 
photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING 
STANDARDS. (POLICE) 
45 RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE SECURITY – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show:

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(A) Restricted access to the parking garage with electrically operated closures to 
allow passage of motor vehicles at all times. Required visitor parking shall have 
unrestricted access.  The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging shall 
be provided with reopening devices which will function to stop and reopen the 
closure in case the closure is obstructed when closing.  Openings into the 
garage which are not for vehicular or human passage shall be provided with 
security grilles or screens.  
(B) Digital keypads shall be provided to allow for entry by services and emergency 
services vehicles into the garages at all times.  Exterior doors or gates providing 
access into the secure areas of the parking garage shall remain locked at all 
times, and shall only be accessible through the use of keys, key fob or remote 
keyless entry system devices furnished to the building residents. Pedestrian 
access points exiting out of garage shall also be accessible through the use of 
keys furnished to the building residents and shall be equipped with self-closing 
devices. All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall 
have doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock 
quickly and automatically upon exit.  
(C) Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers.  
(D) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security 
Ordinance as it applies to Exterior Lighting and metal halide, or other bright 
white light source, shall be utilized. No dark area shall exist inside the parking 
garage. (POLICE) 
46 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit 
application plans for the superstructure shall include a plan showing the 
installation of cameras and approximate viewing fields of surveillance cameras to 
be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee.  The plan 
shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by VIDEO SURVEILLANCE 
STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and storage equipment 
to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS. (POLICE) 
47 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE – The project plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE) 
48 SITE FURNITURE – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
permanent site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent 
an adult from laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by 
designing elevation changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.   
Temporary site furniture shall be secured at the close of each business day.  
(POLICE) 
49 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit plans for the superstructure 
shall show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
and exterior doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, and basement levels. 
(POLICE) 
Public Works Department (PA) 
50 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE –The applicant shall pay a fee proportional 
to the project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative 
development within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 27.13.  The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department 
and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit.  The fee shall 
be based on the most current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
51 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the 
increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, 
the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the 
average projected sanitary flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 
(2006). The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior 
to issuance of the first superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on 
the most current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
52 SEWER CHARGE – Project is responsible for the fees below: 
(A) SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge 
proportional to the project’s share of the increased amount of sewage 
generated by the project, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
3.54.060.  The charge will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of building permit issuance.  The fee shall be collected by the Public 
Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure 
building permit.  The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee 
schedule at the time of payment.  
(B)  SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE In order to meet the 
increased demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, 
the applicant shall contribute fees toward the construction cost to increase its 
capacity based upon the project’s average projected sanitary flow, as 
established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.080.  The fee shall be 
collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on the most current 
adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) 
53 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit application plans shall show 
that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 
10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets the requirements of a 
minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height.  This includes

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities, including the proposed 
transformer. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
54 STREETLIGHTS/PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS - The applicant shall prepare a 
photometric analysis, submit a Streetlight Photometric Plan, and submit a 
Streetlight Electrical Plan showing streetlighting that meets the required lighting 
levels shown below as recommended by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) 
Recommended Practice For Design And Maintenance Of Roadway And Parking 
Facility Lighting (ANSI/IES RP-8-18). 
 
The photometric analysis shall utilize the Illuminance Method for all calculations and 
shall include calculations for Pavement Average Illuminance, Maximum Illuminance 
Value, Minimum Illuminance Value, Average Uniformity Ratio, and Maximum 
Uniformity Ratio as needed for each type of analysis zone.  Calculations for Veiling 
Luminance and Vertical Illuminance are not required.  The analysis shall include 
analysis zones (AZ) for the roadways, sidewalks, and intersections adjacent to the 
project frontages.  Other AZs may be required depending on the project location.  
Roadway AZs shall include the entire roadway width from face of curb to face of curb.  
Sidewalk AZs shall start at the back of walk to the face of curb. Intersection AZs shall 
include the entire roadway up to the end of each curb return, on each approach.  In 
some cases AZs may be required to extend beyond the limits of the project frontage 
in order to avoid inaccuracies caused by small zones.  The analysis shall include all 
existing streetlight luminaires that are expected to contribute light to the AZs.  Lights 
that are not part of the City’s streetlighting infrastructure shall not be included in the 
analysis.  The Light Loss Factor (LLF) used to account for long term loss of lighting 
efficacy shall be 0.803. 
 
 
The Streetlight Photometric Plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-
candles. Each AZ shall be clearly labeled and calculation results shall be presented in 
a legible and concise manner.  A pole and luminaire schedule showing the mounting 
height (MH), mast arm length (MA) and luminaire type shall be included on the plan.

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
 
The Streetlight Electrical Plan shall show the existing streetlight infrastructure and 
proposed streetlight infrastructure improvements as dictated by the photometric 
analysis. The Streetlight Electrical Plan shall show all electrical conduits, pull boxes, 
service connections, fuse holders, bus fuses and all other electrical components 
necessary to construct the improvements. It is the developer’s responsibility to 
coordinate with PG&E to get the necessary power to these new improvements.  City 
staff will assist with identifying existing streetlight luminaires and streetlight 
infrastructure, however, the developer shall be responsible for field verification of 
the existing streetlight infrastructure, including tracing existing circuit extents, if 
needed.  If power is to be tapped into an existing streetlight circuit, voltage drop 
calculations shall be included in the plans. All fees, permits and dues associated with 
these improvements will be paid for by the developer. 
 
 
The selected specifications for new fixtures proposed by the project shall be provided 
by the City as per the latest City Standard to meet latest greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction goals. If the photometric analysis shows that no additional street lighting 
is necessary, the developer at a minimum will upgrade the existing streetlight 
infrastructure in the immediate vicinity to the latest City standard unless granted an 
exception by the City Engineer. 
 
PROJECT SPECIFIC ILLUMINANCE REQUIREMENTS 
Roadway AZs 
O’Farrell Street: 
Avg Pavement Illuminance 
0.4 fc 
 
 
 
Avg Uniformity Ratio  
6.0 
 
 
 
Max Uniformity Ratio  
10.0 
 
Sidewalk AZs 
O’Farrell Street: 
Avg Illuminance 
 
0.4 fc 
 
 
 
Avg Uniformity Ratio  
4.0 
 
In order to determine minimum bonding requirements for the encroachment 
permit, the approximate quantity of streetlights includes one (1) cobra head. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
55 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public improvements shall 
be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  The developer shall repair or 
replace all existing improvements not designated for removal and all new 
improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's operations.  
Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction Inspector 
before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right-of-way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the 
superstructure building permit submittal and substantially conform to the 
approved planning application.  Any changes to the improvements shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their sole discretion.  All 
design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted.  Project specifications shall be 
included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by 
Public Works.  
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of 
way: 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a 
material and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and 
replace any that are damaged during construction. These include but are not 
limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs and handicap markings. All 
permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic.  Color and location of 
painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by the 
Director of Public Works or designee.  Any existing painted curb or pavement 
markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, 
sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City 
crews to mark any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City 
seal.   
(B) SIDEWALK - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
surrounding the project site.  Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per 
City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A.  At the time the planning application was filed, 
approximately 600 square feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. This figure 
is provided only to determine minimum bonding requirements for the 
encroachment permit. 
(C) CURB AND GUTTER - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all 
curb and gutter surrounding the project site.  New curb and gutter shall be 
constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A.  At the time of the planning 
application was filed, approximately 120 linear feet of curb and gutter will need 
to be replaced.  This figure is provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(D) DRIVEWAY APPROACH - The applicant shall install one modified residential 
driveway approach as shown on the approved plans. 
(E) DRIVEWAY REMOVAL - The applicant is to remove the existing driveway 
approach located on O'Farrell Street as shown on the approved planning 
application plans, and replace it (them) with sidewalk, curb and gutter per City 
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. 
(F) SEWER LATERAL - The applicant shall install a 6 inch City Standard sewer lateral 
connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street right 
of way as shown on the plan.  The installation shall be done in accordance with 
City Standard Drawing 3-1-101.   
(G) STORM SEWER MANHOLE(S) - The applicant shall install one (1) standard storm 
drain manhole on the existing 36" storm drain line along the back of the 
property, per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawing 
No. 3-1-104.   
(H) STREETLIGHTS – Per photometric analysis completed, in accordance with COA 
#58, “STREETLIGHTS/PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS”.  Applicant shall install 
required streetlight improvements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
56 PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT DEDICATIONS – The applicant or owner shall dedicate 
necessary Public Utility Easements along project frontage for utility purposes and 
connections, as determined by the Public Works Director or designee.  Applicant shall 
submit a Plat & Legal description as part of the separate instrument for dedication 
submittal for City review and City Council approval and acceptance. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
57 RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION – The applicant or owner shall dedicate in fee the Public 
Street easement area shown on the submitted ALTA/NSPS Land Title Survey plan as 
Title Exemption #9, per Doc 5278 O.R. 486, as shown on the planning application.  
Applicant shall submit a Plat & Legal description as part of the separate instrument 
for dedication submittal for City review and City Council approval and acceptance.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
58 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show all interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer 
system and shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San 
Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
59 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or 
equivalent, on all storm inlets surrounding and within the project site using methods

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
approved by the City standards, consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water 
Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
60 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall 
be a separate water meter for each development use.  The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
61 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall 
provide an adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting 
collection containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection 
service.  The containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room 
for the truck to safely approach the containers.  The collection containers shall be 
brought to the service area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property 
owner.  The containers are not to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior 
to, or beyond the scheduled service times.  A letter shall be provided from the City’s 
franchise solid waste collection service provider stating that service is available to the 
project as designed. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
62 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream (19I-05) to the project 
manhole and downstream culvert.  The video inspection shall be done by a 
professional video inspection company, to City standards, and be completed prior to 
building permit issuance.  The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the 
Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the 
project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his expense.  The required 
repairs, as determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the 
improvement plans submitted by the applicant for permit plan check.  All necessary 
repairs to the storm line shall be completed and approved prior to connection from 
the project site. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
63 UNDERGROUND GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit application plans shall 
show that water from the underground parking garage shall not be discharged onto 
the public street. The applicant shall design a storm system to separate the oil and 
water and connect to the City's sanitary sewer system. The design shall be done by a 
licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings subject 
to the approval of the City Engineer. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
64 DRAINAGE – Drainage designed into landscaping with the purpose of reducing 
volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to extent 
feasible, subject to the approval of the City Engineer.  Where necessary, sidewalk 
drains per City Standard Drawing 3-1-120 shall be provided to direct the water under

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
the sidewalk and through the curb.  No increase to the peak discharge shall be 
permitted downstream.  In addition, discharge must conform to any nonpoint source 
permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board.  Drainage improvements 
made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and shall not allow any 
site drainage to impact adjacent properties.  All drainage capacity calculations shall 
be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall 
appear on the calculations sheets, and shall be submitted to the City for review and 
approval with the project civil plans.  The applicant shall install one manhole to 
connect to the existing 36" storm drain line.  For projects that include permanent 
structural controls for water quality protection, the O&M (operation and 
maintenance) procedures for such control features shall be submitted for review and 
approval prior to occupancy and specify the owner’s responsibility to ensure their 
ongoing effective operation and maintenance.  Such O&M responsibility 
requirements shall be recorded on the property deed. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
65 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – Install trash capture devices in storm drain systems that 
lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or outfall.  Devices shall be approved 
by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. Trash capture devices are 
required on site consistent with the State Water Resources Control Board definition 
of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be cleaned routinely 
and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities Maintenance 
Agreement.  The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash 
capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
66 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, 
electric power, and other communications lines underground to the building in 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and 
switch gear cabinets shall be placed on private property or within a utility 
easement. (PUBLIC WORKS)    
 
67 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for 
the superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify 
different type of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private 
utilities.  
 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground 
electrical, gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables 
including the size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility 
service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures.

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic 
rated boxes and lids. 
 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing.  Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an 
encroachment permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval.  
Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
68 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall 
be supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
69 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall clean and 
inspect (via remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to 
the manhole downstream of the project lateral connection (MH 20I-08X to MH 19I-
08X).  The video inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer video 
inspection company, to City standards, and be completed prior to building permit 
issuance. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the Department of 
Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the project frontage 
shall be repaired by the applicant at his expense.  The required repairs (spray foam-
RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of roots, or replacement), as determined by the 
Public Works Department, shall appear on the improvement plans submitted by 
the applicant for permit plan check.  All necessary repairs to the sewer shall be 
completed and approved prior to connection of the project lateral to the sewer.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, or 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first, or if another deadline 
is specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
70 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall be required to comply with Section 
23.60 of the San Mateo Municipal Code for Art in Public Places.  Applicability is 
determined based on the valuation of all construction for the project at time of 
building permit issuance; this will be a cumulative total for all structures within the 
project.  Section 23.60.060 details the allowable methods of compliance, generally 
described to include the installation of Civic Arts Committee approved artwork to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or payment of a fee in 
lieu of placement of public art, or a combination thereof in an amount that is equal 
one-half of one percent of the total building valuation, excluding land acquisition

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
and off-site improvement costs.  The in-lieu fee shall be paid into the Art in Public 
Places Fund. This condition shall be met in accordance with Section 23.60.050 prior 
to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. (BUILDING) 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
71 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio 
Coverage system may be required for this building.  Testing should occur prior to 
construction due to circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. 
A third party testing grid report shall be provided to the San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department before the final inspection. (FIRE) 
 
72 REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – Provide a key switch to disconnect (shunt) the 
building electrical power by Fire Department personnel.  Contact the Bureau of Fire 
Protection and Life Safety to coordinate the exact location for such devices. The 
key switch location shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for 
review and approval prior to the final inspection. (FIRE) 
73 EPO SWITCH FOR SOLAR – A Knox brand EPO switch is required for the PV panels. 
EPO switch shall be located in the Fire Control Room. (FIRE) 
Planning Division (PA) 
74 FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR ONSITE PRIVATE LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall 
submit a cost estimate and financial securities in a form and amount satisfactory 
to the Zoning Administrator sufficient to ensure the installation of all approved 
onsite private landscape improvements including all new trees. The applicant shall 
request a follow-up inspection by the Planning Division in accordance with Section 
27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim financial securities for 
landscaping. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first.  
(PLANNING) 
75 PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall notify the project planner 
for inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and other site 
improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior to the 
requested time for inspection. (PLANNING) 
76 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall 
submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical analysis for 
the project, verifying that all recommendations contained in the analysis have been 
incorporated into the construction of the project. The letter shall also verify that the 
project will comply with the noise requirements contained in the City’s General Plan.  
This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance 
of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (PLANNING)

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
77 VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – The applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project landscape architect stating that all landscape 
improvements (including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed 
in compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the City for 
construction. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING) 
78 LETTER OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE – The designer or architect of record 
shall submit a stamped and signed letter of compliance that the construction is 
consistent with the approved building permit plans, prior to scheduling the final 
Planning Division inspection. This condition shall be met prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PLANNING) 
Public Works Department (PA) 
79 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record 
drawings and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the 
Department of Public Works.  All underground facilities shall be shown on the 
record drawings as constructed in the field.  The applicant shall also provide the 
City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in the AutoCAD Version being used by 
the City at the time of completion of the work. This condition shall be met prior to 
the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, 
whichever occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
80 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The 
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public 
Works or designee as specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the 
Stormwater Management and Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance.  
The agreement shall outline the continuous operation and maintenance (O&M) 
plan for the permanent storm water treatment facilities including irrigation and 
landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements constructed in the public 
right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s Office.  This 
agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
81 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the 
applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete of the 
roadways anticipated to be damaged as a result of construction activities within 
the general area of the project or along the designated haul route.  If the street 
abutting the property has been classified as being in a failed condition or a 
Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant will be required to 
reconstruct the street.  Limits of the roadway repair shall be curb to curb width of

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
the O’Farrell frontage including the entire cul-de-sac.  The Director of Public Works 
or designee shall approve the roadway repair prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
82 GROUNDBORNE VIBRATION – As required in the Noise and Vibration Assessment 
prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 26, 2021, the applicant shall 
incorporate the following measures in order to reduce vibration impacts from 
construction activities.  
(A) The use of vibratory rollers and clam shovel drops shall be prohibited.  
(B) Limit the use of hoe rams, large bulldozers, and caisson drilling. Place 
operating equipment on the construction site as far as possible from 
vibration-sensitive receptors. 
(C) Use smaller equipment to minimize vibration levels below the limits set forth 
in the Noise and Vibration Assessment. 
(D) Select demolition methods not involving impact tools. 
(E) Avoid dropping heavy objects or materials near vibration sensitive locations. 
(F) A list of all heavy construction equipment to be used for this project known to 
produce high vibration levels (tracked vehicles, vibratory compaction, 
jackhammers, hoe rams, etc.) shall be submitted to the City's Planning Division 
by the contractor prior to the issuance of any demolition, building, and site 
development permit relating to the construction of the superstructure. This list 
shall be used to identify equipment and activities that would potentially 
generate substantial vibration and to define the level of effort required for 
continuous vibration monitoring. (BUILDING, PLANNING) 
 
83 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – As required in the Noise and Vibration 
Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 26, 2021, the 
following provision to control traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed 
during site excavation, grading and construction: 
(A) Work hours regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code shall only be permitted 
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, 
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 
4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction 
work that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does not

--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. 
The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 23.06.060 
of the San Mateo Municipal Code, for limited periods, if the Building Official 
finds that: 
(1) The following criteria are met: 
a. Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of 
noise associated with the project as a whole; or 
b. An emergency situation exists where the construction is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and 
eminent peril to public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the 
City may waive any of the remaining requirements outlined below. 
(2) The exemption will not conflict with any other conditions of approval 
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts. 
(3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and 
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the 
hours of construction activity which may impact the area. This notification 
must be provided three days prior to the start of the construction activity. 
(4) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by an 
interested member of the public. 
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or owner 
of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is determined that 
the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or 
commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of the 
construction.  The waiver application must be submitted to the Building Official ten 
(10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.  
In addition, the project shall include the following measures as provided in the Noise 
and Vibration Assessment by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 26, 2021: 
(B) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the 
greatest distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-
sensitive receptors nearest the project site during all project construction. The 
staging area map plan shall be submitted to the City's Planning Division by the 
contractor prior to the issuance of any demolition, building, and site

--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
development permit relating to the construction of the superstructure and 
prior to the pre-construction meeting. 
(C) Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and concrete saws 
within 35 feet of shared property lines shall be limited, as feasible. 
(D) Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
(E) Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines should be strictly 
prohibited. 
(F) Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or 
portable power generators, as far as possible from sensitive receptors and 
property lines. If they must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property 
lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or enclosures where feasible and 
appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive 
receptors. 
(G) Utilize “quiet” air compressors and other stationary noise sources where 
technology exists. 
(H) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not 
audible at existing residences bordering the project site. 
(I) The contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan identifying the 
schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. The construction 
plan shall identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land 
uses so that construction activities can be scheduled to minimize noise 
disturbance. The construction plan shall be submitted to the City's Planning 
Division by the contractor prior to the issuance of any demolition, building, and 
site development permit relating to the construction of the superstructure and 
prior to the pre-construction meeting. 
(J) Designate a “disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for 
responding to any complaints about construction noise. The disturbance 
coordinator will determine the cause of the noise complaint (e.g. bad muffler, 
etc.) and will require that reasonable measures be implemented to correct the 
problem. Conspicuously post a telephone number for the disturbance 
coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to 
neighbors regarding the construction schedule. (BUILDING, PLANNING) 
84 EMISSION REDUCTION MEASURES – As required in the Air Quality Assessment 
prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 13, 2021, all construction 
equipment used at the site shall comply with the following standards:     
 
(A) All construction equipment larger than 25 horsepower used at the site for 
more than two continuous days or 20 hours total shall meet U.S. EPA Tier 4

--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
emission standards for particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5), if feasible. A list 
of all construction equipment with a horsepower of 25 or greater shall be 
submitted to the City's Planning Division by the contractor prior to the 
issuance of any demolition, building, and site development permit relating to 
the construction of the superstructure and prior to the pre-construction 
meeting. Otherwise, the following equipment shall be used:  
(1) Equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission standards for Tier 3 engines and 
include particulate matter emissions control equivalent to CARB Level 3 
verifiable diesel emission control devices that altogether achieve a 50 
percent reduction in particulate matter exhaust in comparison to 
uncontrolled equipment could be used; alternatively (or in combination), 
(2) Use of electrical or non-diesel fueled equipment. 
(B) Alternatively, the applicant may develop a separate feasible plan that reduces 
on- and near-site construction diesel particulate matter emissions by 50 
percent or greater. This plan shall be reviewed and approved by the City's 
Building Division. (BUILDING, PLANNING) 
Fire Department (PA) 
85 DEMOLITION – Building(s) under construction or demolition shall comply with the 
California Fire Code Ch. 33 during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE) 
86 EGRESS – Adjacent buildings/properties shall not have their required egress 
restricted or compromised at any time during the construction of this project.  
(FIRE) 
87 STANDPIPES – In buildings required to have standpipes by Section 905.3.1, not less 
than one standpipe shall be provided for use during construction or demolition.  
(FIRE) 
88 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access 
road during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
89 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All required Tree Protection Measures are to 
remain in place and properly maintained during all phases of construction.  The 
Contractor is to notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction 
operations are to be performed within the drip line of protected trees. (e.g. 
trenching, excavation, grade changes) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures 
require approval from the Project Arborist. (PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
Planning Division (PA) 
90 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – Should any potentially unique paleontological 
resources (fossils) be encountered during development activities, work shall be 
halted immediately within 50 feet of the discovery. The City of San Mateo Planning 
Division shall be immediately notified, and the applicant shall be responsible for 
retaining the services of a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of 
the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the  
uniqueness of the find, and prepare a written report documenting the find and 
recommending further courses of action. Based on the significance of the 
discovery, the actions may include avoidance, preservation in place, excavation, 
documentation, recovery, or other appropriate measures as determined by the 
paleontologist. (PLANNING) 
Public Works Department (PA) 
91 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and 
Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference.  Detailed 
information 
can 
be 
located 
at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
92 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best 
management practices for the installation of the Architectural Copper.  For 
detailed information please distribute the flyer to all construction personnel 
involved in the fabrication and installation of the Architectural Copper that is 
located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-
new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/   (PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING) 
93 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust as required by Public Works and by the Air 
Quality Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 13, 2021, 
shall be implemented by the contractor, and shall be followed during site 
excavation, grading and construction: 
(A)  Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall 
be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  Please note, 
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-
way after 5:00 p.m.  In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a 
Public Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless 
prior approvals have been granted by Public Works.  Earth haul and materials

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and 
from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m. - 5:30 
p.m.  Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site.  The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting 
construction hours.  The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times.  Contact 
the Public Works Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining 
hours of operation. The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities 
may be waived or modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the 
City Engineer finds that: 
(1) The following criteria are met: 
a. Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of 
noise associated with the project as a whole; or 
b. Permitting extended hours of construction are required to 
accommodate design or engineering requirements, such as a large 
concrete pour.  Such a need would be determined by the project's 
design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee.  
c. An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary 
to correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and 
eminent peril to public health and safety.  If such a condition exists, the 
City may waive any of the remaining requirements outlined below. 
 
(2) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval 
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and 
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the 
hours of construction activity which may impact the area.  This notification 
must be provided three days prior to the start of the extended construction 
activity.  
 
(4) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any 
interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if 
the contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of 
exemption or if it is determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the 
occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are impaired because 
of the location and nature of the construction.  The waiver application must be

--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior 
to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. 
(C) All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, 
and unpaved access roads) shall be watered a minimum of two times per day 
by a water trucks or by other approved method maintained on site during all 
grading operations.  Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind 
conditions that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause 
excessive neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into 
storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that all roadways, driveways, and 
sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as possible after the grading is 
completed. All other paving and foundation placement shall be laid immediately 
after the grading operation unless seeding or soil binders are used. 
(E) All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose materials to and from the 
site shall be covered in accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle 
Code during transit to and from the site.  
(F) All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed 
using wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry 
power sweeping is prohibited. 
(G) All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph). 
(H) Vehicle idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when 
not in use or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by 
the California airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of 
California Code of Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for 
construction workers at all access points. 
(I) All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in 
accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment shall be 
checked by a certified mechanic and determined to be running in proper 
condition prior to operation.  
(J) A publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
City of San Mateo regarding dust complaints shall be posted at the project site. 
This person shall respond and take corrective action within 48 hours. The Air 
District’s phone number shall also be visible to ensure compliance with 
applicable regulations. 
(K) All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards.

--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(L) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks 
or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations.  
Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain 
systems will not be allowed. 
(M) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
(N) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to 
and from the site. 
(O) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable 
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works or designee, for any lane or sidewalk closures.  The detour plan shall 
comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the State of California Manual 
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2012, and standard construction 
practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
94 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the 
sanitary sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a 
period greater than 6 months.  Discharges for longer than 6 months must obtain an 
NPDES permit from the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system.  
Discharge of uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the 
applicant can provide analytical data to support the claim.  No discharge to the storm 
drain is allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department.  All 
discharges to the sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a 
Waste Discharge Permit and must comply with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
95 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-
axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the 
applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works 
or designee.  The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from 
using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets.  The haul route for 
this project shall be: HWY-92, El Camino Real and 20th Street, or as approved by the 
Director of Public Works or designee.  A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public 
Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits.  All material hauling 
activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of 
operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the

--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
responsibility of the applicant.  All storage and office trailers will be kept off the 
public right-of-way.  Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed.  
Entry and exit from the site shall use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The 
applicant must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads 
on-site.  Any job-related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right-of-way shall 
be removed immediately.  No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be allowed.  
Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only 
vacuum).  All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable 
City ordinances and conditions of approval.  Violation of such may be cause for 
suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
96 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-
parking plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the 
neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be 
present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate where 
sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-site 
material deliveries.  Said plan shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with at all times 
during construction.  Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in suspension of 
the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises. 
City Attorney (PA) 
97 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the  
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from 
and against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this 
planning application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that 
might result from third party challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, 
the City shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City. (CITY 
ATTORNEY) 
 
98 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-
Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the 
conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties 
set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well 
as any other available legal remedies. (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
99 RECEPTOR EXPOSURE REDUCTION MEASURES – As required in the Air Quality 
Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated May 13, 2021, the

--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
project shall provide the following documents to ensure that the receptor 
exposure reduction measures are implemented and maintained for the life of the 
project: 
(A) An ongoing maintenance plan for the buildings’ heating, ventilation, and air 
conditioning (HVAC) air filtration system shall be required that includes regular 
filter replacement.  
(B) A use agreement and other property documents that require:  
(1) Cleaning, maintenance, and monitoring of the affected building for air 
flow leaks,  
(2) Assurances that new tenants are provided information on the ventilation 
system, including provisions that fees associated with leasing a unit(s) in 
the building include funds for cleaning, maintenance, monitoring, and 
replacements of the filters, as needed. (PLANNING) 
 
100 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES – All 
physical improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the 
approved planning application shall substantially conform at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises with the approved 
planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application 
shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether 
the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
Police Department (PA) 
101 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the 
life of the project a video surveillance system subject to the following 
requirements:   
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  
The captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police 
personnel through some form of facility management during regular business 
hours.  The applicant shall provide proof of registration of the video 
surveillance camera system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood Eyes 
Security Team web form

--- page 49 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134).  
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking garages and entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and 
grounds contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended to require 
Applicant to install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to view these 
areas may be installed on the building facing out.  
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall 
be capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project 
completion.  Cameras viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle 
passage onto the site and/or garages shall additionally be capable of capturing 
the front and rear of all entering and exiting vehicles that use the sites and/or 
garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model of vehicles 
accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of vehicles, 
and clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE) 
102 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the 
Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall 
comply with the requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a 
minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 
average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright white” 
light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering 
index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting standard is 
applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so 
designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source 
from view from off site. (POLICE) 
Public Works Department (PA) 
103 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM – A Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project by Steer 
dated April 2021. The project shall comply with this adopted TDM Program. It is 
anticipated that property management will continue to modify and refine the TDM 
program over time to best achieve the trip reduction target, address market 
conditions, and respond to tenant needs, which may include TDM measures not 
currently listed in the TDM plan when they may be found to be more effective in 
reducing vehicle trips.  
 
Once implemented, the Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be 
monitored and assessed annually for the occupied life of the development.  The

--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
program shall be recorded with the County.   The assessment of compliance with 
the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including mode split survey results, 
is submitted to Public Works by the end of every calendar year (December 31st).  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
104 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with 
 the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, 
 San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide 
 Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI 
features in the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep 
parking lots immediately prior to and once during the storm season. 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not 
limited to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, 
emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and 
facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no longer 
able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated.  The fee shall be 
based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by the City Council, 
in effect at the time. 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – 
Drains to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and 
to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the storm drain.  Template 
ordering information is available from the Department of Public Works. 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and 
similar chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and 
grease planned for storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all 
times. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in 
the environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of 
approval. A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental 
document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 51 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA-2020-037 
1919 O’FARRELL APARTMENTS 
 
Address: 
1919 O’Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Parcel Number: 
039-030-340 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 52 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA-2020-037 
1919 O’FARRELL APARTMENTS 
 
Address: 
1919 O’Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Parcel Number: 
039-030-340

--- page 53 ---
Sheet Index:
Cover Sheet
A0.0
Project Location:
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
Project Team:
Applicable Codes:
Project Description:
Construction:
Building Code Analysis Summary:
Allowable Building Areas:
Code Analysis Data:
PROJECT SITE
Soil Disturbance:
Heritage Tree Count:
Project Data:
Zoning Analysis:

--- page 54 ---
13
O'FARREL STREET
92 FREEWAY: SOUTH EL CAMINO REAL OFFRAMP
MID-RISE OFFICE
1900 O'FARRELL STREET
LOW-RISE OFFICE
1941 O'FARRELL STREET
PARK 20 APARTMENTS
1919 O'FARRELL STREET
(PROPOSED PROJECT SITE)
NORTH
1
2
3
4
10
9
12
11
5
6
15
7
8
14
20
16
17
18
19
EXISTING SITE & CONTEXT
A0.1
KEYPLAN
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 55 ---


--- page 56 ---
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
Area A
20'-0"
23'-11"
42'-3"
33'-9"
41'-9"
119'-3"
24'-0"
44'-2"
39'-2"
Area B
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
12'-1"
8'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
12'-0"
11'-9"
8'-3"
8'-0"
9'-6"
Private Open Space
93 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
98 SF
Private Open Space
96 SF
Private Open Space
80 SF
Area B
20'-0"
23'-9"
Private Open Space
78 SF
36'-10"
7
7
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
12'-1"
8'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
12'-0"
11'-9"
8'-3"
8'-0"
9'-6"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
11'-8"
Private Open Space
93 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
95 SF
Private Open Space
90 SF
Private Open Space
78 SF
Private Open Space
98 SF
Private Open Space
96 SF
Private Open Space
80 SF
7
7
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
12'-1"
8'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
12'-0"
11'-9"
8'-3"
8'-0"
9'-6"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
11'-8"
Private Open Space
93 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
95 SF
Private Open Space
90 SF
Private Open Space
78 SF
Private Open Space
98 SF
Private Open Space
96 SF
Private Open Space
80 SF
7
7
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
11'-5"
8'-0"
12'-1"
8'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
12'-0"
11'-9"
8'-3"
8'-0"
9'-6"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
10'-11"
8'-0"
11'-8"
Private Open Space
93 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
92 SF
Private Open Space
95 SF
Private Open Space
90 SF
Private Open Space
78 SF
Private Open Space
98 SF
Private Open Space
96 SF
Private Open Space
80 SF
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIAGRAMS
A0.3
0
10
20
5
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
2
LEVEL 2 OPEN SPACE
1
LEVEL 1 OPEN SPACE
4
LEVEL 4 OPEN SPACE
3
LEVEL 3 OPEN SPACE

--- page 57 ---
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
Bicycle Storage
(Excluded From F.A.R.)
Recreation Area
1,719.51 SF
Stair #1
Stair #2
Elevators
Trash Chutes
LEVEL 1 AREA TABULATION
Residential Area
 
9,415.12 SF
Lobby & Recreation Area
2,119.40 SF
Common Area
 
2,650.03 SF
Level 1 Gross Area
14,184.55 SF
Common Area
2,650.03 SF
Residential Area
2,526.19 SF
Residential Area
6,124.10 SF
Residential Area
764.83 SF
Lobby Area
399.90 SF
Elevators
Stair #1
Trash Chutes
LEVEL 2 AREA TABULATION
Residential Area
12,258.64 SF
Common Area
  1,501.07 SF
Level 2 Gross Area
13,759.71 SF
Residential Area
3,524.41 SF
Residential Area
2,569.01 SF
Residential Area
6,165.22 SF
Common Area
1,501.07 SF
Stair #2
Bicycle Storage
(Excluded From F.A.R.)
Elevators
Stair #1
Trash Chutes
LEVEL 2 AREA TABULATION
Residential Area
12,258.64 SF
Common Area
  1,501.07 SF
Level 2 Gross Area
13,759.71 SF
Residential Area
3,524.41 SF
Residential Area
2,569.01 SF
Residential Area
6,165.22 SF
Common Area
1,501.07 SF
Stair #2
Bicycle Storage
(Excluded From F.A.R.)
Elevators
Stair #1
Trash Chutes
LEVEL 2 AREA TABULATION
Residential Area
12,258.64 SF
Common Area
  1,501.07 SF
Level 2 Gross Area
13,759.71 SF
Residential Area
3,524.41 SF
Residential Area
2,569.01 SF
Residential Area
6,165.22 SF
Common Area
1,501.07 SF
Stair #2
Bicycle Storage
(Excluded From F.A.R.)
AREA CALCULATIONS
A0.4
0
10
20
5
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
2
LEVEL 2 AREA PLAN
1
LEVEL 1 AREA PLAN
4
LEVEL 4 AREA PLAN
3
LEVEL 3 AREA PLAN

--- page 58 ---
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
25'-1"
7'-4"
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-10"
4'-0"
4
4
6
4
4
4
6
5
8
4
1
2
1
100
1
79
79
KB
1,564.80 S.F.
OLF =  15 NET
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
1,564.80/15 = 105
REC. ROOM
105
ASSEMBLY AREA
91
PASSIVE AREA
30
OUTDOOR AREA
TOTAL OCC. LOAD = 121
1,495.85 S.F. (PASSIVE AREA)
OLF =  50 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
1,495.85/50 = 30
1,357.60 S.F. (ASSEMBLY AREA)
OLF =  15 NET
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD
1357.60/15 = 91
399.90 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
399.90/300 = 2
153.59 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
153.59/300 = 1
143.67 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
143.67/300 = 1
LEVEL (L1): 10 DWELLING UNITS
158 OCCUPANTS
"R-2" PRIMARY OCCUPANCY (OLF = 200).
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
OUTDOOR AREA
200
91
30
E
E
E
242.15 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
242.15/300 = 1
559.22 S.F.
OLF =  15 NET
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
559.22/15 = 38
1 EXIT REQ.
38
1
100
71'-4" GREATEST DIAG. LENGTH
1/3 d = 23'-9"
KB
E
C.P.E.T. = 117'-2"
125'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1006.2.1
E.A.T.D. = 145'-9"
250'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1017.2
79
79
158
100
79
79
79
79
79
140'-11" BETWEEN EXIT STAIRWAYS
> 77'-3" REQ. PER C.B.C. 1007.1.1 (EXC. 2)
7
7
4
4
6
4
4
4
6
4
4
4
6
5
8
1
LEVELS (L2), (L3) & (L4): 39 DWELLING UNITS
(13 DWELLING UNITS AT EACH STORY)
64 OCCUPANTS PER STORY.
"R-2" OCCUPANCY (OLF = 200).
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
231'-7" GREATEST DIAG. LENGTH
1/3 d =77'-3"
32
32
64
C.P.E.T. = 117'-2"
125'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1006.2.1
E.A.T.D. = 143'-7"
250'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1017.2
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
78
1
1
2
82
PARKING LEVEL (B1)
98 OCCUPANTS
"S-2" PRIMARY OCCUPANCY.
"R-2" OCCUPANCY AT STAIR S1 & ELEV E1.
116.14 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
116.14/50 = 1
187.34 S.F.
OLF =  300 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
187.34/300 = 1
707 SQ. FT.OLF =  300
GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
707/300 = 3
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
MECHANICAL
PARKING AREA
(NON-OCCUPIABLE
SPACE)
MECHANICAL
PARKING AREA
(NON-
OCCUPIABLE
SPACE)
MECHANICAL
PARKING AREA
(NON-OCCUPIABLE
SPACE)
PARKING GARAGE
15,493.51 S.F.
OLF =  200 GROSS
CBC TABLE 1004.1.2
OCC. LOAD:
15,493.51/200 = 78
156'-1" BETWEEN EXIT STAIRWAYS
> 78'-10" REQ. PER C.B.C. 1007.1.1 (EXC. 2)
236'-8" GREATEST DIAG. LENGTH
1/3 d =78'-10"
C.P.E.T. = 97'-5"
100'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1006.2.1
E.A.T.D. = 177'-9"
400'-0" ALLOWABLE
C.B.C. TABLE 1017.2
41
41
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
A0.5
0
10
20
5
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
3
LEVELS 2-4 OCCUPANT LOAD & EGRESS
2
LEVEL 1 OCCUPANT LOAD & EGRESS
1
LEVEL B1 OCCUPANT LOAD & EGRESS
01. 
OCCUPANT LOADS INDICATED ARE FOR EACH SEPARATE
FLOOR LEVEL SHOWN ON THIS SHEET ONLY. NO CUMULATIVE
OCCUPANT LOADS FROM OTHER LEVELS NEED TO BE
CONSIDERED IN DETERMINING THE REQ. WIDTH FOR MEANS
OF EGRESS COMPONENTS, EXCEPT WHERE SPECIFICALLY
NOTED ON LEVEL L1 (STREET) AS POINTS OF EGRESS
CONVERGENCE (C.B.C. 1005.6).
2.
THE OCCUPANT LOADS OF PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PATIO &
BALCONY AREAS ARE INCLUDED IN THE TOTAL OCCUPANT
LOADS INDICATED AT INDIVIDUAL DWELLING UNITS.
3.
THE MIN. WIDTH OF ANY COMPONENT IN THE MEANS OF
EGRESS SYSTEM SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN THE PRODUCT
DETERMINED BY MULTIPLYING THE TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD BY
THE APPLICABLE FACTOR SET FORTH BY C.B.C. 1005.1 (REFER
ALSO TO G.N. 07D). THE TOTAL OCC. LOAD OF INDIVIDUAL
SPACES ARE DETERMINED BY DIVIDING FLOOR AREA BY THE
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTORS LISTED IN C.B.C. TABLE 1004.5.
STAIRWAYS (C.B.C. 1009.3.2, EX. 1; C.B.C. 1011.2, EX. 1),
CORRIDORS (C.B.C. 1020.2; TABLE 1020.2), EGRESS BALCONIES
(C.B.C. 1021) & EGRESS COURTS (C.B.C 1028.4) SHALL BE A MIN.
OF 44-IN. WIDE. SEE EXCEPTIONS FOR ALLOWANCE OF A 36-IN.
WIDTH, WHERE THE MEANS OF EGRESS COMPONENT IS
SERVING AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF LESS THAN 50.
4.
MEANS OF EGRESS DOORS & GATES SHALL PROVIDE A CLEAR
WIDTH OF 32-IN. THE MAX. WIDTH OF A SWINGING DOOR LEAF
SHALL BE 48-IN. (C.B.C. 1010.1.1) & SHALL SWING IN THE
DIRECTION OF EGRESS TRAVEL WHERE SERVING AN
OCCUPANT LOAD OF 50 OR MORE PERSONS (C.B.C. 1010.1.2.1).
5.
(2) EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM ANY SPACE
SHALL BE PROVIDED WHERE THE DESIGN OCCUPANT LOAD
AND THE COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
(C.P.E.T.D.) EXCEEDS THE VALUES LISTED IN C.B.C. TABLE
1006.2.1 FOR BUILDINGS EQUIPPED WITH AN AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH C.B.C. 903.3.1.1:
"A" OCCUPANCY: (49) MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD; 75-FEET MAX.
"B" OCCUPANCY: (49) MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD; 100-FEET MAX.
"R-2" OCCUPANCY: (20) MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD; 125-FEET MAX.
"S" OCCUPANCY: (29) MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD; 100-FEET MAX.
6.
THE MINIMUM REQUIRED NUMBER OF EXITS FROM ANY STORY
SHALL BE (C.B.C. TABLE 1006.3.2):
(2) FOR OCCUPANT LOADS BETWEEN 1 - 500 PER STORY.
(3) FOR OCCUPANT LOADS BETWEEN 501 - 1000 PER STORY.
(4) FOR OCCUPANT LOADS MORE THAN 1000 PER STORY.
SEE C.B.C. 1006.3.3 FOR EXCEPTIONS, WHERE A SINGLE EXIT
OR ACCESS TO A SINGLE EXIT SHALL BE PERMITTED FROM
ANY STORY OR OCCUPIED ROOF; REFER TO G.N. 05.1).
7.
IN BUILDINGS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN APPROVED
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER IN COMPLIANCE WITH 903.3.1.1:
(A)
THE SEPARATION DISTANCE BETWEEN EXIT OR EXIT
ACCESS DOORWAYS SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN ONE-THIRD
THE LENGTH OF THE MAX. OVERALL DIAGONAL DIMENSION
OF THE AREA SERVED (C.B.C. 1007.1.1, EX. 2). WHERE
MORE THAN (2) ARE PROVIDED, AT LEAST (2) SHALL
CONFORM TO THE ONE-THIRD DISTANCE PROVISION
(C.B.C. 1007.1.2).
(B)
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (C.P.E.T.D.):
REFER TO G.N. 05 & 05.1.
FOR "A" OCCUPANCIES, THE C.P.E.T.D. SHALL NOT EXCEED
THE FOLLOWING VALUES
(C.B.C. 1028.8, EX. 1 & 2):
"A" OCCUPANCY (FROM ANY SEAT, TO A POINT HAVING A
CHOICE OF 2-PATHS): 30-FEET MAX.
"A" OCCUPANCY (SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY): 50-FEET
MAX.
"A" OCCUPANCY (SERVING LESS THAN 50 OCCUPANTS):
75-FEET MAX.
(C)
THE TOTAL EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (E.A.T.D.)
SHALL NOT EXCEED THE VALUES LISTED IN C.B.C. TABLE
1017.2:
"A" OCCUPANCY: 250-FEET MAX.
"B" OCCUPANCY: 300-FEET MAX.
"R" OCCUPANCY: 250-FEET MAX.
"S-2" OCCUPANCY: 400-FEET MAX.
(D)
THE REQUIRED CAPACITY, IN INCHES, OF A MEANS OF
EGRESS COMPONENT SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN
CALCULATED BY MULTIPLYING THE OCCUPANT LOAD
SERVED, BY THE EGRESS CAPACITY FACTORS LISTED
BELOW (C.B.C. 1005.3):
FOR STAIRWAYS: 0.3 INCHES PER OCCUPANT
FOR OTHER EGRESS COMPONENTS: 0.2 INCHES PER
OCCUPANT.
(E)
ELEVATORS SHALL NOT BE REQUIRED TO ACT AS
ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS WHERE AN ACCESSIBLE
FLOOR IS LESS THAN (4) STORIES ABOVE OR BELOW A
LEVEL OF EXIT DISCHARGE (C.B.C. 1009.2.1). LEVEL L1
(STREET LEVEL) IS THE LEVEL OF EXIT DISCHARGE. LEVEL
L4 IS ONLY (3) STORIES ABOVE LEVEL L1. LEVEL LB (SUB-T
GARAGE) IS ONLY (1) STORY BELOW LEVEL L1.
(F)
CLEAR WIDTH OF 48-IN. MIN. BETWEEN HANDRAILS IS NOT
REQ. IN EXIT STAIRWAYS PER C.B.C. 1009.3.2, EX. 1.
(G) AREAS OF REFUGE ARE NOT REQ. IN EXIT STAIRWAYS PER
C.B.C. 1009.3.3, EX. 1, 2 & 5.
8.
NUMBER, LOCATION & DIRECTION OF EXIT SIGNS ARE SHOWN
ON THIS SHEET; SEE BUILDING PLANS AND/OR ELECTRICAL
PLANS FOR THEIR DEPICTION ON LARGER SCALE DRAWINGS.
9.
EGRESS THROUGH INTERVENING SPACES (C.B.C. 1016.2):
(A) EXIT ACCESS THROUGH AN ENCLOSED LOBBY IS
PERMITTED IN GROUPS "R" & "S" OCCUPANCIES. ACCESS
TO NOT LESS THAN ONE OF THE REQ. EXITS SHALL BE
PROVIDED WITHOUT TRAVEL THROUGH THE ENCLOSED
ELEVATOR LOBBY. WHERE THE PATH OF EXIT ACCESS
TRAVEL PASSES THROUGH AN ENCLOSED ELEVATOR
LOBBY, THE LEVEL OF PROTECTION REQ. FOR THE
ENCLOSED ELEVATOR LOBBY IS NOT REQ. TO BE
EXTENDED TO THE EXIT UNLESS DIRECT ACCESS TO AN
EXIT IS REQ. BY OTHER SECTIONS OF THIS CODE.
(B) EGRESS FROM A ROOM / SPACE SHALL NOT PASS
THROUGH ADJOINING OR INTERVENING ROOMS / AREAS,
EXCEPT WHERE BOTH ARE ADJOINING & ACCESSORY TO
EACH OTHER AND PROVIDE A DISCERNABLE PATH OF
EGRESS TRAVEL TO AN EXIT; SEE EXCEPTION.
(C) AN EXIT ACCESS SHALL NOT PASS THROUGH A ROOM
THAT CAN BE LOCKED TO PREVENT EGRESS.
(D) MEANS OF EGRESS FROM DWELLING UNITS OR SLEEPING
AREAS SHALL NOT LEAD THROUGH OTHER SLEEPING
AREAS, TOILET ROOMS OR BATHROOMS.
(E)
EGRESS SHALL NOT PASS THROUGH KITCHENS, STORAGE
ROOMS, CLOSETS OR SPACES USED FOR SIMILAR
PURPOSES. EXCEPTION: MEANS OF EGRESS ARE NOT
PROHIBITED THROUGH A KITCHEN AREA SERVING
ADJOINING ROOMS CONSTITUTING PART OF THE SAME
DWELLING OR SLEEPING UNIT.
TOTAL EXITING LOAD AT EGRESS COMPONENT.
OCCUPANT LOAD ORIGINATING FROM A SPACE
INDICATES AN EXIT (C.B.C. SECTIONS) FROM A
FIRE COMPARTMENT: EXTERIOR DOOR (1020.2),
EXIT ENCLOSURE (1022), EXIT PASSAGEWAY
(1023), HORIZONTAL EXIT (1025), OR EXTERIOR
EXIT RAMP / STAIRWAYS (1026).
INDICATES THE POINT AT WHICH COMMON PATH OF
EGRESS TRAVEL WITHIN AN OCCUPIABLE SPACE, AND
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE WITHIN A STORY TO
THE ENTRANCE OF AN EXIT, IS THE GREATEST.
INDICATES PATH OF TRAVEL TO EXITS: THIS PATH
COMPLIES AS AN ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
(C.B.C. 1009). COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL
DISTANCE (C.P.E.T.D.) AS A PORTION OF THE TOTAL
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (E.A.T.D.) IS SHOWN
AS A HALF-TONE GRAY LINE.
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL (P.O.T.):
ROUTES FROM LIVING UNITS TO THE FOLLOWING
LOCATION SHALL BE BARRIER FREE: COMMON
OUTDOOR AREAS, RECREATION AREAS, PUBLIC
RIGHT-OF-WAYS, EXISTING TRANSPORTATION STOPS.
LOCATION OF RAPID ENTRY KEY BOX (10 41 01):
CONTACT THE FIRE INSPECTOR TO OBTAIN AN
APPLICATION AND TO DETERMINE LOCATIONS OF
RAPID ENTRY (KNOX) KEY-LOCK BOXES.
53
100
E
KB
E.A.T.D.
C.P.E.T.D.

--- page 59 ---
48 S.F.
88 S.F.
18 S.F.
38 S.F.
18 S.F.
88 S.F.
18 S.F.
38 S.F.
18 S.F.
48 S.F.
88 S.F.
18 S.F.
38 S.F.
18 S.F.
48 S.F.
117 S.F.
18 S.F.
38 S.F.
18 S.F.
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L1: 275 SF
L4: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  14.15% < 45%; COMPLIES.
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L2:  245 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L3:  245 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L4:  245 SF
L1: O.A. / E.A. x100 = 
23.95% < 45%; COMPLIES.
L2: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  23.60% < 45%; COMPLIES.
L3: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  23.60% < 45%; COMPLIES.
EAST ELEVATION
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L1: 1148 SQ. FT.
UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED (UP, S):  10-FEET TO LESS THAN 15-FEET.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L4: 1732 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L2: 1078 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L3: 1078 SQ. FT.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
18 S.F.
LEVEL L1
LEVEL L2
LEVEL L3
LEVEL L4
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L1: 99 SF
L4: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  12.78% < 25%; COMPLIES.
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L2:  109 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L3:  109 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L4:  109 SF
L1: O.A. / E.A. x100 = 16.23% < 25%; COMPLIES.
L2: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  17.87% < 25%; COMPLIES.
L3: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  17.97% < 25%; COMPLIES.
SOUTH ELEVATION
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L4: 853 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L1: 610 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L2: 610 SQ. FT.
42 S.F.
14 S.F.
18 S.F.
35 S.F.
42 S.F.
57 S.F.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L3: 610 SQ. FT.
UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED (UP, S):  5-FEET TO LESS THAN 10-FEET.
14 S.F.
18 S.F.
35 S.F.
14 S.F.
18 S.F.
35 S.F.
42 S.F.
42 S.F.
LEVEL L1
LEVEL L2
LEVEL L3
LEVEL L4
LEVEL L1
LEVEL L2
LEVEL L3
LEVEL L4
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L1: 23  S.F. L1: O.A. / E.A. x100 = 12.37% < 70%; COMPLIES.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L1: 186 SQ. FT.
WEST ELEVATION
UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED (UP, S):  25-FEET TO LESS THAN 30-FEET.
23
S.F.
22 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
22 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L1: 464 SF
L4: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  14.30% < 45%; COMPLIES.
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L2:  458 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L3:  458 SF
TOTAL OPENING AREA AT L4:  458 SF
L1: O.A. / E.A. x100 = 
23.81% < 45%; COMPLIES.
L2: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  23.50% < 45%; COMPLIES.
L3: O.A. / E.A. x100 =  23.50% < 45%; COMPLIES.
NORTH ELEVATION
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L4: 3202 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L1: 1949 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L2: 1949 SQ. FT.
TOTAL ELEVATIONAL AREA AT L3: 1949 SQ. FT.
UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED (UP, S):  10-FEET TO LESS THAN 15-FEET.
35 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
25 S.F.
29 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
35 S.F.
29 S.F.
29 S.F.
35 S.F.
LEVEL L1
LEVEL L2
LEVEL L3
LEVEL L4
EXTERIOR OPENINGS ANALYSIS DIAGRAMS
A0.6
0
10
20
5
2
SOUTH ELEVATION
3
EAST ELEVATION
1
NORTH ELEVATION
4
WEST ELEVATION
MAXIMUM AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENINGS BASED
ON  FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE & DEGREE OF
OPENING PROTECTION (C.B.C. TABLE 705.8)
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 60 ---
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
STAIR
#2
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
(4) STORY (TYPE VA; R-2)
OVER (1) LEVEL (TYPE IA; S-2) SUBTERRANEAN PARKING
DRIVE RAMP
DOWN TO PARKING LEVEL LB1:
1ST LEVEL FF: 104.30' FF
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING: 92.30'
FDC
BFP
STAIR #1
RECREATION ROOM
GAME
STORAGE
PUMP
ROOM
MAIL
YOGA &
STRETCH
ROOM
BFP
BFP
LOBBY
2
A1.1
 SHAFT
TRASH
ENCLOSURE
BIKE
STORAGE
R.R.
R.R.
GAME
AREA
1
A1.1
SITE PLAN
A1.0
0
5
10
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 61 ---


--- page 62 ---
O'FARRELL STREET
RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABANDONED PER
5226 O.R. 192
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
EL. +3'-0"
Mail
Stair
1
Recreation Room
Drive Ramp
to Parking Level B1
RAMP DN.
10%
Standpipe
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +0'-0"
EL. +0'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +0'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
Line of
Walls Above
7'-6"
Yoga
&
Stretch
Room
Stair
2
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-10"
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
-
A4.1
-
A4.0
Pump
Room
Transformer
And Pad
Solid Waste
 Staging
Courtyard
See Landscape Plans
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
RAMP DN
18%
Bike
Storage
Game
Storage
2'-8"
1:12 Ramp
Solid Waste Truck
Service Location
Solid Waste
Storage Enclosure
(2 CY Solid Waste
and 2 Recycling
Containers)
Short-Term
Bicycle Parking
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
A2
Unit Type
C1
Unit Type
A1.2
Line of B1
Level Below
Open Stairs
Open Stairs
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
7'-6"
12'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
1'-6 1/2"
1'-0"
11'-11"
1'-10"
7'-9"
23'-6 1/2"
11'-11"
3'-6"
1'-10"
11'-1"
1'-0"
1'-6"
8"
1'-0"
1'-0"
1'-0"
1'-6"
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
5'-0"
2'-6"
Line of
Roof Above
Line of Deck
Above
Line of
Trellis Above
Line of Wall
Above
1'-6"
R.R.
Game
Area
R.R.
Lobby
Note:
·
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
Exhaust
Shaft
Transformer
Screen Gates
8'-0"
24'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
LEVEL 1 PLAN
A2.0
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 63 ---
EL. +13'-1"
7
7
Stair
1
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Trash
7'-6"
Stair
2
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-9"
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
2'-6"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
A2
Unit Type
C1
Unit Type
A1.2
Top Of Entry
Gate Feature Below
Roof Of
Trash Room
Trellis Below
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
B1.2
12'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
6'-3"
23'-6 1/2"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
8'-11"
6'-11"
Note:
·
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
Bike
Storage
Exhaust
Shaft
LEVEL 2 PLAN
A2.1
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 64 ---
EL. +23'-2"
7
7
EL. +23'-2"
Stair
1
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Trash
7'-4"
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-4"
Stair
2
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
2'-6"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
A2
Unit Type
C1
Unit Type
A1.2
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
B1.2
13'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
1'-0"
Note:
·
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
Bike
Storage
Exhaust
Shaft
LEVEL 3 PLAN
A2.2
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 65 ---
EL. +33'-3"
EL. +33'-3"
Stair
1
5'-7"
10'-0"
36'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Trash
7'-6"
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-10"
Stair
2
7
7
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
2'-6"
3'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
A2
Unit Type
C1
Unit Type
A1.2
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
A1.1
Unit Type
B1.2
13'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
2'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
3'-8"
3'-6"
8"
2'-0"
1'-3 1/2"
1'-0"
1'-0"
1'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
1'-0"
3'-6"
Note:
·
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
Bike
Storage
Exhaust
Shaft
LEVEL 4 PLAN
A2.3
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 66 ---
Stair
1
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
7'-4"
11'-0"
6'-7"
13'-4"
Stair
2
Mechanical Condensers
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
Solar PV Panels
Solar PV Panels
Solar PV Panels
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Notes:
·
See Level 4 for all overhang and projection dimensions.
·
The locations of the PV panels per Section 110.10(b)(1)(B)
of the California Energy Code where a minimum of 15% of
the roof area is required, and a minimum of 3 KW per
Section 23.24(A)(1) of the City of San Mateo, etc.
Garage Exhaust Discharge
LEVEL ROOF PLAN
A2.4
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 67 ---
EL. +33'-3"
Stair
1
24'-0"
32'-5"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Stair
2
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
ONLY
ONLY
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
YIELD
YIELD
3'-0"
24'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
25'-0"
RAMP UP
10%
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
1
2
44'-0"
24'-0"
13'-0"
Mech.
Room
22'-0"
18'-0"
4
3
5
6
8
11
13
17
20
21
22
23
24
18
19
19'-3"
19'-4"
6'-3"
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic Puzzle
Lift (1 Up/1 Down)
Spaces 26 -32
9 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic Puzzle
Lift (1 Up/1 Down)
Spaces 33 -41
9 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic Puzzle
Lift (1 Up/1 Down)
Spaces 42 -50
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic Puzzle
Lift (1 Up/1 Down)
Spaces 51 -57
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic Puzzle
Lift (1 Up/1 Down)
Spaces 58 -64
14'-7"
39'-10"
Storage
El. -9'-0"
3'-0"
36'-0"
36'-2"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
3'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
8'-6"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
17'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
22'-0"
RAMP UP
18%
18'-0"
8'-6"
1'-6"
3'-0"
19'-3"
19'-4"
4'-3"
3'-0"
3'-0"
12
Security
Gate
Note:  All provided parking spaces are assigned to residents.  Minimum 8'2" vertical
clearance at all drive aisles and accessible parking spaces; minimum 7'-0" vertical
clearance for , standard and compact parking spaces within the B1 Level Parking
Garage.  All parking spaces to have minimum 24' backup dimension except for
compact spaces, which will have a minimum 22' backup dimension.
5'-0"
Utility
Room
14
10
25
9'-3"
7
15'-8"
8'-9"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
C
A4.2
10'-0"
Striping
9
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
8'-0"
15
16
10'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
3'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
7'-0"
5'-2"
9'-9"
9'-9"
8'-0"
LEVEL B1 PLAN
A2.5
0
4
8
2
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 68 ---
OOF PEAK
++ 188-10"

ROOF PEAK g.
EL + 155-10"?

a 8
\_UEVEL 4 PLATE LEVEL 4 PLATE. ‘\
‘L. +/- 143'-8" * * EL + 143.8"?
2 2
& &
LEVEL 4 LEVEL 4
wer} Neer
£ 7 ~ =
2 =
© glEVeL3 LEVEL 3 &
SBvie * Nesiee &
g 2
Qo . . fe)
Zz 5 5 z
3 3 3 g
fey = = fe}
3 8
EVEL 1 LEVEL 1
.. +1-104'-4" 3 3 EL. srioaar
EETLEVEL @ QSTREET LEVEL 4
L. +1016" NX SEL. +/-101'-6"
IST.GRADE © “EXIST. GRADE
L+101-0" TRASH ROOM PODIUM DECK EL sior-o®
2 SOUTH ELEVATION
3 10 a} [4 1 a) ia 4) 6 14 4
MATERIALS LEGEND: COLOR & FINISH LEGEND: yw 4 6D . DE cA Foo A y
a a
1 PLASTER A COLOR TO MATCH z z
RAL 7045 TELEGREY (ROOF PEAK or! 158.8" 6 \ ROOF PEAK
2 BRICK VENEER L +1 15540" iy al u EL +1 155.10"
B PAINT TO MATCH on rT] ig
3 HORIZONTAL CEMENT DET618 INDUSTRIAL AGE » a! T >
BOARD SIDING (PLASTER) N az 4 = s
' '
4 VERTICAL STANDING SEAM c COLOR TO MATCH |
METAL RAL 9006 WHITE ALUMINUM \. Ave 4 PLATE | i ALEVELAPLATE, gS
+i 143-8" t 1 EL. +/- 143-6" 4
5 PAINTED CONCRETE D PAINT TO MATCH ' " \ :
DEW380 WHITE 2 :
6 METAL RAILING ° ' J ' °
E PAINT TO MATCH eves ' | FEF OS aERS — | LEVEL 4
7 METAL & WOOD DE5803 TURBULENT SEA Ber $ Nevaener?
CANOPY \ =e LiL aT '
F PAINT TO MATCH : | / | j 5
8 METAL FENCE/GATE DE5773 STONE SILVER . 2 .
5 1 LI] 1 :
9 WOOD SLAT RAILING G PAINT TO MATCH = aewa ; — | levels &
DE5770 SMOKE AND MIRRORS SB A Near §
10 VINYL WINDOW g ' — ' g
H PAINT TO MATCH g | | | ' « g
1 ALUMINUM DE6118 SANDPIT z 3 | i al 8 5
STOREFRONT N ' LJ m Lt \ N
J PAINT TO MATCH BEVEL? H a — | LEVEL2 @ @
12 METAL ROLL UP DE6231 SHAKER GRAY SEL tas: Nene ©
DOOR \ ; '
K PAINT TO MATCH : | / / | | .
13 CONCRETE MASONRY BLOCK DET729 MEDALLION | ii 8
| Lt LL] & \
14 PAINTED DOOR L PAINT TO MATCH evel | om - - on | LEVEL tg
DE5359 CROSSROADS soa S — | Savio
15 ART MURAL (ARTWORK TDB) ceruevel & | = : Serneer Level g
M BELDEN BRICK +40 8 SEL sore"
BLACK DIAMOND VELOUR Ne ere ROIST GRADE g
13, 4 6 2 10 4 5 2
D J M - Do} oD
4 EAST ELEVATION

Elevations
Planning Application Set

ISSUES & REVISIONS

paTE June 28, 2021
PROJECT NO: 19-101

1919 O'Farrell Street

ARCHITECT: OWNER:
') IN SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 05-29-20 1ST PLANNING SUBMITTAL

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE SCALE: 024 8
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE 12-08-20 2ND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
SUITE 140 05-03-21 3RD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890 06-28-21 4TH PLANNING SUBMITTAL

NO. DATE — REVISIONS

SHEET #:



--- page 69 ---
Lu
=
—!
>
OOF PEAK fr!
_+/- 155'-10" WW
ou
)
wr
O,
VEL 4 PLAT!
ec +/- 143'-8" & ‘
.
od
EVEL 4
+h 134-7"
g
Ee
=
|
EVEL3 fF J
_ ‘er
_ +/- 124'-6 5
Lu
x=
Zz
Z g
N
ro)
EVEL2 \|
te 114'-5"F
g
EVEL 1 lL
L. +/-104'-4"
REET LEVEL_@
L. +/-101'-6"
IST. GRAD
L. +/-99'-4"

MATERIALS LEGEND:

1 PLASTER
2 BRICK VENEER
3 HORIZONTAL CEMENT
BOARD SIDING
4 VERTICAL STANDING SEAM
METAL
5 PAINTED CONCRETE
6 METAL RAILING
7 METAL & WOOD
CANOPY
8 METAL FENCE/GATE
9 WOOD SLAT RAILING
10 VINYL WINDOW
11 ALUMINUM
STOREFRONT
12 METAL ROLL UP
DOOR
13 CONCRETE MASONRY BLOCK
14 PAINTED DOOR
15 ART MURAL (ARTWORK TDB)
ARCHITECT:
DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

=
=

COLOR & FINISH LEGEND:

A

COLOR TO MATCH
RAL 7045 TELEGREY

PAINT TO MATCH
DET618 INDUSTRIAL AGE
(PLASTER)

COLOR TO MATCH
RAL 9006 WHITE ALUMINUM

PAINT TO MATCH
DEW380 WHITE

PAINT TO MATCH
DE5803 TURBULENT SEA

PAINT TO MATCH
DE5773 STONE SILVER

PAINT TO MATCH
DE5770 SMOKE AND MIRRORS

PAINT TO MATCH
DE6118 SANDPIT

PAINT TO MATCH
DE6231 SHAKER GRAY

PAINT TO MATCH
DET729 MEDALLION

PAINT TO MATCH
DE5359 CROSSROADS

BELDEN BRICK
BLACK DIAMOND VELOUR

i= a

1 1
DO De

45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT

OOF PEAK.
_ +/- 155'-10"

N
VEL 4 PLATE
_+/-143'-5"

iS)

%
EVEL 4
-+/-134-7"

)
EVEL 3 -
-+/-124'-6"

S
EVEL 2
+/-114-5"

ro
EVEL 1
~+/-104-4"
REETLEVEL ¢
_+/-101'-6" * ,
IST.GRADE ~~
_+/-101'-5"

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWNER:

PROPERTY LINE

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE

SAN MATEO, CA 94401

ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
io
a
ee eee sLEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
Ea =
LEVEL 4
Pee ae NEL. +/- 1341-7"
ea | os 2 i
=
LEVEL3 4.
LL SEL. +/ 124-6" z
ue
alg _—
asa «€6§lhlU = 2
N
LEVEL 2 2
A) Sg ee 8
| _ BS | ~
1 | a _| S
Bess ee LEVEL
8 EL. +/-104'-4"
Nie LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
~~ SEXIST. GRADE
— EL. +/-99'-4"
“5 NORTH ELEVATION
ay,
1 9 31 4 10 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 6 1
F J HD A D E OD D B Cc G DE E AD Wy
158'-9" E
ra
'@% ~~. ROOF PEAK
| Wy EL. +/- 155'-10"
O
‘a
iq.
N
— LEVEL 4 PLATE
== | TEL, +/- 143'-5"
| ---4 |
E 4
=
OO LEVEL 4
— | SEL, +/- 1341-7"
i |
| = kK
ee 7 i
2000 10008) | x=
lanza : eveisy, §
ae | SEL +- 424-6" FS
! 3
| : e
7 N
OO008 10008) | a
|
‘Z = ye gate
— — EL. +/- 114'-5"
‘| ! =
I my nh |
'
es a | LEVEL 1
= | Sa oa 2 STREET LEVEL
se - — \ & EL. +/-101'-6"
“EXIST. GRADE
TRASH ROOM HEDGE SCREEN EL. +/-101'-5"
1 9 2 5 13 12 8 1 6 2 13 8 1 1
DJ M D A D JM A D G
(4 WEST ELEVATION
P| | Avolicati S t DATE: June 28, 2021
aNning Dp ICatlon oe PROJECT NO: 19-101
ISSUES & REVISIONS
NO. DATE REVISIONS
05-29-20 1ST PLANNING SUBMITTAL
SCALE: oe
12-08-20 2ND PLANNING SUBMITTAL |
05-03-21 3RD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
SHEET #: .

06-28-21 4TH PLANNING SUBMITTAL



--- page 70 ---
Parking  Garage
Courtyard
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Community
Room
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Property Line
Property Line
NORTH
SECTION A
A4.0
0
4
8
2
KEYPLAN
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
SEMI-AUTOMATIC PUZZLE LIFT
HWY 82

--- page 71 ---
Parking Garage
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
NORTH
SECTION B
A4.1
0
4
8
2
KEYPLAN
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
SEMI-AUTOMATIC PUZZLE LIFT

--- page 72 ---
NORTH
Line of Proposed Ramp
Line of Ramp w/o Rolled Curb
8'-4"
TIC
PIT)
STANDARD
RAMP UP
9%
RAMP UP
18%
RAMP DN 18%
RAMP DN 9%
-
A4.1
SECTION C
A4.2
0
4
8
2
KEYPLAN
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
4'-0"
WALK
40'-0"
18% SLOPE
8'-0"
10% SLOPE
8'-0"
10% SLOPE
℄ O'FARRELL CUL DE SAC
18"
PARTIAL RAMP PLAN (STREET LEVEL)
PARTIAL RAMP PLAN (LEVEL B1)
SECTION C
2'-0"
2'-0"
24'-0" DRIVE RAMP

--- page 73 ---
23'-10"
33'-8"
3'-6"
Entry
Kitchen
15'-3" x 11'-5"
Dining
6'-0" x 9'-4"
Living Room
11'-4" x 11'-7"
Bathroom
7'-0" x 11'-6"
Bedroom
10'-10" x 11'-4"
Balcony
8'-0" x 11'-11"
Storage
5'-0" x 5'-10"
W.I.C.
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
Entry
Kitchen
12'-2" x 15'-2"
Dining
6'-0" x 9'-8"
Living Room
12'-2" x 12'-2"
Bathroom
7'-0" x 11'-6"
Bedroom
11'-2" x 11'-11"
Balcony
8'-0" x 12'-9"
33'-8"
33'-8"
Den
8'-4" x 11'-11"
Storage
7'-6" x 8'-9"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
TYPICAL UNIT PLANS
A5.0
0
2
4
1
2
UNIT A2
1
UNIT A1
1 Bedroom / 1 Bath (746 s.f.)
1 Bedroom / 1 Bath + Den (965 s.f.)
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 74 ---
60'-0"
32'-7 1/2"
Living Room
11'-11" x 12'-7"
Dining
7'-3" x 11-11"
Kitchen
20'-3" x 16'-7"
Bedroom 1
12'-0" x 16'-7"
Bathroom 1
9'-9" x 16'-3"
Bedroom 2
11'-0" x 11'-8"
Bedroom 3
10'-6" x 11'-8"
Bathroom 2
7'-0" x 10'-4"
Bathroom 3
7'-0" x 6'-9"
Balcony
8'-0" x 13'-0"
Balcony
8'-0" x 10'-0"
Storage
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
3'-0"
2'-6"
6'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
Entry
Living Room
12'-3" x 11'-4"
Balcony
8'-0" x 11'-11"
Bathroom 2
7'-0" x 10'-9"
Bedroom 2
11'-2" x 11'-4"
36'-6"
34'-0"
2'-6"
Bedroom 1
11'-8" x 12'-0"
Bathroom 1
9'-6" x 14'-6"
Kitchen
12'-4" x 13'-11"
Dining
12'-3" x 9'-11"
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
4'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
TYPICAL UNIT PLANS
A5.1
0
2
4
1
1
UNIT C1
3 Bedroom / 2.5 Bath (1,556 s.f.)
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
2
UNIT B1
1 Bedroom / 1 Bath (1,172 s.f.)

--- page 75 ---
O'FARREL STREET
92 FREEWAY: SOUTH EL CAMINO REAL OFFRAMP
MID-RISE OFFICE
1900 O'FARRELL STREET
LOW-RISE OFFICE
1941 O'FARRELL STREET
PARK 20 APARTMENTS
1919 O'FARRELL STREET
(PROPOSED PROJECT SITE)
NORTH
A
D
B
C
D
E
F
PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
A6.0
F
COURTYARD VIEW LOOKING S.E.
D
O'FARRELL VIEW LOOKING N.E.
E
COURTYARD VIEW LOOKING N.W.
A
B
AERIAL VIEW LOOKING N.W.
C
AERIAL VIEW LOOKING NE
KEYPLAN
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021
92 HIGHWAY VIEW LOOKING S.E.

--- page 76 ---
Materials & Color Palette
-
A7.0
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
19-101
June 28, 2021

--- page 77 ---


--- page 78 ---
PAVING TYPE

CONCRETE SIDEWALK

GARDEN SEATING AREAS

FENCE & TRELLIS

PERIMETER FENCE °F1” — SEE SHEET L9
SEE SHEET L9
SEE SHEET L9

PERIMETER SCREEN FENCE °F2” —
PERIMETER SCREEN FENCE ”F3” —
GARDEN SHADE TRELLIS — SEE SHEET L10

ARCHITECT:

JS \

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

PROMENADE PAVING (COLOR TBD)

WALL & STAIR TYPE

LOW TERRACED WALLS — 6” HIGH

? 4 Aa ff
MEDIUM PLANTER WALL — 30” HIGH

TREE PLANTER WALL — 48” HIGH
(COLOR TBD)

LOW FIREPLACE WALL — 48” HIGH
(COLOR TBD)

STAIRS (COLOR TBD)

FURNITURE TYPE

PROMENADE SEATING

SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING DINING CHAIRS

COMMUNAL DINING TABLE

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWNER:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

MATERIALS LEGEND

PAVING
ITEM

CONCRETE SIDEWALK

PROMENADE PAVING

GARDEN SEATING AREAS

WALL AND STAIRS
[TEM

LOW TERRACE WALLS—
6” HIGH

MEDIUM PLANTER WALL—
30” HIGH

TREE PLANTER WALL—
48” HIGH

LOW FIREPLACE WALL—
48” HIGH

STAIRS

FENCES & TRELLIS

ITEM

PERIMETER FENCE °F1”

PERIMETER SCREEN FENCE
"EQ”

PERIMETER SCREEN FENCE
"EF 3”

GARDEN SHADE TRELLIS

FURNITURE
ITEM

PROMENADE SEATING
GARDEN SEATING
SHORT TERM BICYCLE
PARKING

COMMUNAL DINING TABLE

DINING CHAIRS

MATERIAL

CAST IN PLACE CONCRETE PER
CITY STANDARDS

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

DECOMPOSED GRANITE

MATERIAL

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

CAST IN PLACE INTEGRAL
COLOR REINFORCED CONCRETE

MATERIAL

GALVANIZED TUBE
STEEL—FIELD PAINTED

PRESURE TREATED DOUGLAS
FIR POSTS WITH CEDAR
PLANKS

PRESURE TREATED DOUGLAS FIR
POSTS WITH CEDAR PLANKS AT
LEVEL 1 PODIUM WALL

STEEL POSTS & FRAME WITH
WOOD PLANKS

MATERIAL

ARCA VINTAGE LOUNGE CHAIR
OR SIMILAR BY ARTICLE

ADIRONDACK CHAIR OR
SIMILAR BY POLYWOOD(OR
SIMILAR)

WELLE CIRCULAR RACK —
INGROUND
BY BIKE PARKING

MARTINIQUE TABLE BY
KANNOA

MARTINIQUE TABLE BY
KANNOA

COLOR

NATURAL
GRAY
TBD

NATURAL

COLOR

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

COLOR

BLACK

NATURAL
STAIN

NATURAL
STAIN

BLACK

COLOR

TBD

NATURAL
STAIN

STAINLESS

STEEL FINISH

TBD

TBD

MATERIALS LEGEND

Planning Application Set

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:

EDGE Design Group

201 Spear Street
& Suite 1100 #3168

San Francisco, CA 94105

415.869.8823

FINISH

LIGHT
BROOM

TOP CAST
FINISH

FINISH

TOP CAST
FINISH

TOP CAST
FINISH

TOP CAST
FINISH

TOP CAST
FINISH

TOP CAST
FINISH

FINISH

FIELD
PAINTED

FINISH

TBD

LOCATION & REMARKS

SAWCUT JOINTS PER PLAN

SAWCUT JOINTS PER PLAN

SOUTH COURTYARD, REF. LANDSCAPE
SECTIONS

SOUTH COURTYARD PLANTERS AND
BBQ WALL IN NORTH COURTYARD, REF.
LANDSCAPE SECTIONS

SOUTH COURTYARD, REF. LANDSCAPE
SECTIONS

SOUTH COURTYARD, REF. LANDSCAPE
SECTIONS

ENTRY GARDEN, NORTH & SOUTH
COURTYARD, AND PERIMETER GARDEN,
REF. LANDSCAPE SECTIONS

ENTRY GARDEN AND NORTH
COURTYARD. REF. FENCE DETAILS

SOUTH COURTYARD PLANTERS AND
BBQ WALL IN NORTH COURTYARD,
REF. FENCE DETAILS

NORTH PERIMETER SCREENING AREA.
FENCE DETAILS

SOUTH COURTYARD, REF. TRELLIS
DETAILS

NORTH & SOUTH COURTYARD.

NORTH & SOUTH COURTYARD.

ENTRY GARDEN

SOUTH COURTYARD

SOUTH COURTYARD

DATE: JUNE 28, 2021

PROJECT NO: MSC902. |

SCALE:

SHEET #: L2


--- page 79 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L3
PLANTING LEGEND

--- page 80 ---


--- page 81 ---
Kielty Arborist Services LLC 1919 O'Farrell 2 1919 O'Farrell 3 1919 O'Farrell 4

- . ou Survey:
Certified Arborist WE#0476A ae "
P.O Box 6187 Survey: Tree# Species DBH CON HT/SP Comments Tree Evaluation Schedule
San Mateo CA 94403 Tree# Species DBH CON HT/SP Comments 15P/R Coast live oak 16.5 65 40/25 Good vigor, fair form, supported by Landscape Units
650-5 15-9783 IR Cherry 40 60 10/10 Fair vigor, fair form, planted within hedge. (Quercus agrifolia) retaining wall on neighboring property side.
May 3. 2021 (Prunus serrulata) pruned for line clearance in past, heavy into
ays property. 2 |Pear [Pyuscalieryana | R | 30% | 60% | 70% |035| 154 | 100 | 100 | 554 |
7 : oe 3 | Redwood [Sequoia sempervirens} P| 90% | 65% | 8% |035/ 255 | 070 | 125 | 2984 |
Sierra Investments 2R Ornamental pear 154 60 40/25 Fair to poor vigor, fair form, dead wood in 16R Poplar 10-7 0 10/6 DEAD : > lor | ex | oo lest 2
- Vie (Pyrus calleryana) canopy, mature. P $ |Redeood Sequoia sempervrons| P| 90% | 65% | 80% [035] 232 O70 | 125 | 2714
Attn: Victor Lo (Populus nigra) [Soa } |O5 | j
3119" Avenue OPUS HIST a 6 |Redwood |Sequora sempervirens| P | 90% | 65% | 80% [035 | 172 070 125 | 2012
San Mateo. CA 94401 3P  — Redwood 25.5 65 80/20 Fair vigor, fair form, minor drought stress. 1_\Redeood Sequore sempenwrens) Ft 90% | C8 ON 1058) 133 tO hes 18
San Mateo, © (Sequoia sempervirens) 17P = Coast live oak 18@grade 45 25/20 Fair vigor, poor form, under utilities, topped, : eee [Seon somparareest F “ = an ik a 1 a + rs = =
fo ye - . : . AG 0 Oo NO 3 vi 3 VS. (Ae
(Quercus agrifolia) (10-8-6-4 @breast height) mult leader at grade with poor unions. “10 [Redwood ___| Sequove s sail —P_| 90% | 45% | 80% |035| 16 | 100 | 125 | 1851
ta. . AA 4P Redwood 23.5 65 80/20 Fair vigor, fair form, drought stress at top of 11_|Privet Liqustum japonicum | R | 30% | 60% | 70% 1035 | 10 {00__| 100 | 360
Site: 1919 Ofarrell Street, San Mateo CA BOE, , § P . . _ ue 1 oe eee eee ae
> + oy eOnINGIANVaRHe ISP ; li k 120 45 45/20 Fair vigor r form. under utili ; 12_|Coastive oak | Quercus agnfolia R 90% | 45% | 7 035 g 100 1,00 6.48
(Sequoia sempervirens) canopy. y oast ive oal ” / air vigor, poor form, under utilities, topped 7 [Bleck scacia — [Acacia matananyion | —R | 30% [451 Tox 1095110 7a
Dear Mr. Lo, (Quercus agrifolia) Coast live oak | Quercus agntolia R_ | 90% | 70% | 70% |035| 1 100 | 125 | 2363
5P = Redwood 23.2 65 80/20 Fair vigor, fair form, drought stress at top of _15 |Coastiwe oak [Quercusagnioia | R | 90% | 65% | 70% [035] 165 | 100 | 125 | 2413 |
me ARIA bls ; ; reHOID §. orviroHyY *s 19P = Coast live oak 10-10 45 20/20 Fair vigor, poor form, codominant at 2 feet 16_| Poplar | Poputus migra [Rr [30% | o% | 70% [oss] 10 | 100 | 400 | 000 |
As requested on Friday, May 3, 2019, I visited the above site to inspect and comment on the (Sequoia sempervirens) Canopy. (Quercus agrifolia) with ced bark. under utilities 17 \Coastive oak |Quercus agnioha |) P| 90% | 45% | 70% 1035) 18 | 100) 4.25 | 18.23 |
trees. New development is proposed on this site, and your concern for the future health and x "e's ° 18 |Coast ive oak _| Quercus agnfoha P| 90% | 45% | 70% 1035! 12 100 | 125 | 1215
fe ar Lee . ; . 6P Redwood 17.2 65 70/20 Fair vigor, fair form, drought stress at top of 19 |Coastiive oak | Quercus agnfolia P__| 90% | 45% | 70% |035| 10 | 100 | 125 | 1013 |
safety of ihe trees on ste has prompted this visit An LU evaluation aneet shal be attached to ne (Sequoia sempervirens) canopy. 20P Coast five oak 11.1 50 20/20 Fair vigor, fair form, under utilities, poor 20 [Coast ive oak Quercus agnioia | P| 90% | 50% | 70% [035] 111 | 100 | 125 | 1240 |
ack of this report for the planned submittal. A tree protection plan has also been provided at the (Quercus agrifolia) location 21_|Popiar Poputus nigra R__| 30% | 30% | 70% |035| 7 | 100 | 100 | 126 |
end of this report. The entire planning application set (35 pages) was reviewed for writing this i. oe, . = es 22 |Pootar TPooutus vara R | 30% | 30% | 70% [035] 6 1.00 100 | 1.08
report. Impacts and recommendations will be discussed. 7P Redwood 13.5 65 60/15 Fair vigor, fair form, drought stress at top of
(Sequoia sempervirens) canopy. 21R opie 8.0 30 20/10 Poor vigor, poor form, topped in past. Showing LU Values for trees on site. Trees #1 and
Method: aay — , ; (Populus nigra) #23 are under 6” and are not counted towards LU
All inspections were made from the ground; the trees were not climbed for this inspection. The 8P Redwood — 24 45 30/12 Fair vigor, poor form, topped for line DR Popl 70 30 20/10 P ; f dj
trees in question were located on a map provided by you. The trees were then measured for (Sequoia sempervirens) clearance. / pe mr us nigra) oor vigor, poor form, topped in past.
diameter at 48 inches above ground level (DBH or diameter at breast height), The trees were 9 dwood 5 30/; . d for I Pp 8”
given a condition rating for form and vitality. The trees condition rating is based on 50 percent 9P —_ Redwoo _ 8 45 30/12 Fair vigor, poor form, topped for line o3R Ch 50 45 ‘10/10 Poor vigor. fair form. in decli
vitality and 50 percent form, using the following scale (Sequoia sempervirens) clearance, erry oor vigor, fair form, in decline.
y P eee og V ~ (Prunus serrulata)
_ - 29 Very Poor — ;
30 - 49 Poor 10P Redwood 16.0 45 30/12 Fair vigor, poor form, topped for line
50 - 69 F air (Sequoia sempervirens) clearance. *-Indicate SiPee ON He ighboring properly
7 6 89 Good P-Indicates protected tree by city ordinance
90-100 Excellent 11R_ Privet 10.0 60 18/15 Fair vigor, fair form, fair screen.

The height of the trees was measured using a Nikon Forestry 550 Hypsometer. The spread was (Ligustrum japonicum)

paced off. Comments and recommendations for future maintenance are provided.

12R Coast live oak 8.0 45 1S/1S Fair vigor, poor form, suppressed, leans at a
Kev: (Quercus agrifolia) 45-degree angle.
DBH-Diameter at breast height (48 above grade)
CON- Condition rating (1-100) 13R_— Black acacia 10.0 45 25/15 Fair vigor, fair form, poor species, invasive.
HT/SP- Tree height/ canopy spread (Acacia melanoxylon)
*indicates neighbor's trees
P-Indicates protected tree by city ordinance 14P/R Coast live oak 15.0 70 30/25 Good vigor, fair form, supported by
R-Jndicates proposed tree removal (Quercus agrifolia) retaining wall on neighboring property side.
I Py : A | : S DATE: JUNE 28, 2021
1919 O'Farrell Street anning Application vet PROJECT NO: MSC9O2

ARCHITECT: OWNER: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC. .
DIN \ 317 OTH AVENUE EDGE Design Group

SAN MATEO, CA 94401 201 Spear Street

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE & Suite 1100 #3168 SCALE:
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE San Francisco. CA 94105
SUITE 140

415.869.8823
IRVINE, CA 92612 SHEE T
714.389.1890 i L4A


--- page 82 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L4B
ARBORIST REPORT

--- page 83 ---
1919 O'Farrell 9

Tree Protection Plan:

Tree Protection Zones

Tree protection zones should be installed and maintained throughout the entire length of the project.
Fencing for tree protection zones should be 6’ tall, metal chain link material supported by metal 2”
diameter poles, pounded into the ground to a depth of no less than 2’. The location of the tree
protection fencing is recommended to be placed at the dripline of the trees where possible. The drip
line shall not be altered in any way so as to increase the encroachment of the construction. Where
not posstble due to approved work, the tree protection should be placed at the edge of the approved
work. No equipment or materials shall be stored or cleaned inside the protection zones. No
excavation, grading, soil deposit, drainage and feveling within the dripline unless approved. It is
prohibited to dispose oi, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents or other materials within the dnpline
or other areas that may lead to the tree. Areas where tree protection fencing needs to be reduced for
access (not expected on this site), should be mulched with 6” of coarse wood chips with 14 inch
plywood laid on top. The plywood boards should be attached together in order to minimize
movement. The spreading of chips will help to reduce compaction and improve soil structure. All
tree protection measures must be installed prior to any construction activity at the site. No signs,
wires, or any other object shall be attached to the trees. The following diagram shows the location
of tree protection fencing for the retained protected trees on site.

OSTA) SE PLAN
Red lines indicate placement of fencing
Landscape Buffer
Where tree protection does not cover the entire root zone of the trees, or when a smaller tree
protection zone is needed for access, a landscape buffer consisting of wood chips spread to a depth
of six inches with plywood or steel plates placed on top will be placed where foot traffic is expected
to be heavy. The landscape buffer will help to reduce compaction to the unprotected root zone.

Root Cutting

Any roots to be cut shall be monitored and documented. Large roots (over 1.5” diameter) or large
masses of roots to be cut must first be inspected by the Project Arborist before being cut. The Project
Arborist, at this time, may recommend irrigation or fertilization of the root zone. All roots needing to
be cut should be cut clean with a saw or lopper. Roots to be left exposed for a period of time should
be covered with 3 layers of burlap and kept moist, by spraying down the burlap multipletimes a day.
The Project Arborist must be on site during any approved excavation below a protectedtree's dripline.

ARCHITECT:

JS \

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

1919 O'Farrell 10

Grading

The existing grade level around the trees shall be maintained out to the dripline of the trees when
possible. Anytime existing grades are to be changed underneath the dripline of a protected tree by
more than 3", special mitigation measures will need to be put into action to reduce impacts to the trees.
Aeration will need to be provided to root zones of trees that are to experience fill soil being placed
within the tree root zones. Grades shall not be lowered when within 3 times the diameter of aprotected
tree on site. Lowering grades will result in roots needing to be cut and is highlydiscouraged.

Working under the dripline of a protected tree

Whenever work must take place within the dripline of protected trees protect the trunk as specified:
Wrap the bottom 6 feet of the trunk with 2 inches of orange plastic fencing for buffering overlaid
with 2-inch thick wooden slats bound securely by two layers of additional orange fencing (slats shail
not be allowed to dig in to the bark). During installation, caution shall be used to avoid damaging
any branches. Major limbs may also require wrapping as directed by the City Managing Arborist.
Straw wattles may be used as an alternative trunk wrap material. Whenever work must take place
within the dripline of protected trees, protect the soil with a temporary layer of material to protect
the soil texture and roots, or root buffer. The buffer shall consist of secured geotextile material
covering the area to be protected. Cover the geotextile material with 4 to 6 inches of clean wood
chips (2-inch unpainted, untreated wood chips or approved equal). Securely install 3/4-inch plywood
over the wood chips. The root buffer shall be installed and removed without wheeled equipment
touching exposed soil. This may mean some or all the work is done by hand. The Project Arborist
shall be present during the installation and removal of root buffers. Existing pavement also works
as a root buffer

Trenching and Excavation

Utility service and irrigation lines are recommended to be placed outside of the tree protection zones.
When not possible and trenching for irrigation, drainage, electrical or any other reason shall be done
by hand when inside the dripline of a protected tree. Hand digging and the careful placement of pipes
below or besides protected roots will significantly reduce root loss, thus reducingtrauma to the tree.
All trenches shall be backfilled with native materials and compacted to near its original level, as soon
as possible. Trenches to be left open for a period of time, will require the covering of all exposed roots
with burlap and be kept moist. The trenches will also need to be covered with plywood to help protect
the exposed roots.

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWNER:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

1919 O'Farrell 11

[rrigation

imported trees- On a construction site, | recommend irrigation during winter months, 1 time per
month. Seasonal rainfall may reduce the need for additional irrigation. During the warm season, April
— November, my recommendation is to use heavy irrigation, once a week for the redwood trees. A
series of soaker hoses connected to an automatic timer is recommended to be installed within the tree
protection fencing zones for the redwood trees. This type of irrigation should be started prior to any
excavation. The irrigation will improve the vigor and water content of the trees. Irrigation for the
retained oak trees #17-20 is recommended to only be applied as close to the basement cut as possible
at arate of every other week during the dry season. During the months of May and September the oak
trees are recommended to be deeply irrigated weekly to combat droughtlike stress. The top foot of
soil is recommended to be saturated when irrigating. After construction is completed irrigation shall
be suspended near the oak trees. Irrigation for the oak trees shall only take place in May and
September. The on-site arborist may make adjustments to the irrigation recommendations as needed.
The foliage of the trees may need cleaning if dust levels are extreme. Removing dust from the foliage
will help to reduce mite and insect infestation.

Taspections

The site arborist will need to verify that tree protection fencing has been installed before the start of
construction. The city of San Mateo usually requires a Jetter stating the fencing is in place before any
permits are to be granted. The site arborist must inspect the site anytime work is to take place within
10 times the diameter of a protected tree on site. It is the contractor’s responsibility to contact the
site arborist if work 1s to take place within 10 times the diameter of the protected trees onsite. Kielty
Arborist Services can be reached at kkarbar0476@yahao com or by phone at (650) 515-9783 or (650)
532-4418. The city arborist must be notified if when or/if damage occurs to any Heritage tree on site.

Damages to trees
The City Arborist and Project Arborist will need to be notified when or/if damage occurs to any of
the “Heritage” trees on site, so that proper mitigation measures can be implemented.

Pruning

Any pruning will need to be documented by the Project Arborist. All pruning must be done by a
licensed tree care provider. Pruning will need to stay under 25% of the total canopy. At this time
no pruning fs proposed or needed.

The information included in this report is believed to be true and based on sound arboricultural
principles and practices.

Sincerely,
Kevin Kielty Certified Arborist WE#0476A Acute Aaky

1919 O'Farrell 12

Kielty Arborist Services
P.O. Box 6187
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-5 15-9783

ARBORIST DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Arborists are tree specialists who use their education, knowledge, training and experience to
examine trees, recommend measures to enhance the beauty and health of trees, and attempt to
reduce the risk of living near trees. Clients may choose to accept or disregard the recommendations
of the arborist, or seek additional advice.

Arborists cannot detect every condition that could possibly lead to the structural failure of a
tree. Trees are living organisms that fail in ways we do not fully understand. Conditions are often
hidden within trees and below ground. Arborists cannot guarantee that a tree will be healthy or safe
under all circumstances, or for a specified period of time. Likewise, remedial treatments, like a
medicine, cannot be guaranteed.

Treatment, pruning, and removal of trees may involve considerations beyond the scope of
the arborist’s services such as property boundaries, property ownership, site lines, disputes between
neighbors, tandlord-tenant matters, etc. Arborists cannot take such issues into account unless
complete and accurate information is given to the arborist. The person hiring the arborist accepts
full responsibility for authorizing the recommended treatment or remedial measures.

Trees can be managed, but they cannot be controlled. To live near a tree is to accept some degree
of risk. The only way to eliminate all risks is to eliminate all trees.

Arborist: Ke ihc Aehy
Kevin R. Kielty

Date: May 3”, 202]

ARBORIST REPORT

Planning Application Set PROUECT NO: MSCOOD

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:

EDGE Design Group

201 Spear Street
= Suite 1100 #3168 SCALE:
San Francisco, CA 94105

415.869.8823 SHEET ¢: LAC


--- page 84 ---
ADJACENT EXISTING
BUILDING
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L5
OVERALL LANDSCAPE PLAN
0'   2.5'    5'         10'
N

--- page 85 ---
ADJACENT EXISTING
BUILDING
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L5A
HARDSCAPE  PLAN
0'   2.5'    5'         10'
N

--- page 86 ---
ADJACENT EXISTING
BUILDING
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L5B
SOFTSCAPE  PLAN
0'   2.5'    5'         10'
N

--- page 87 ---
6’ TALL MAX PERIMETER
OUTDOOR GATE (FOR FIRE

SCREEN FENCE ”F3”
LOUGE BARBECUE ACCESS AND SEE SHEET L5D FOR
CHAIRS AREA MAINTENANCE. ONLY) FENCING PLAN TITLE EXCEPTION #6 ABUTTER’S RIGHT'S,
TITLE EXCEPTION #7 PARCEL ”F”
5226 O.R. 192 10.00 P.U.E,

INCLUDING ACCESS RIGHTS, RELEASED
AND RELINQUISHED OVER AND ACROSS
THE NORTHERLY LINE OF THE SUBJECT

PARCEL PER 3655 0.R. 507

FIRE ACCESS AND MAINTENANCE, TYP.

NL HIGHWAY 92 RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPE BUFFER —

10.00 NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT
FOR INGRESS AND EGRESS &
P.U.E. PARCEL a O.R. 192

| . NORTH
OUTDOOR SEATING —\} COURTYARD
AREA: 580 SF. \\

2 ee _
a oo
(582 SF.) 7
| Ss
>
EF \
a
S || PARKING STRUCTURE BELOW, REFER
COMMUNAL DINING TABLE a TO ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS FOR
/ PLANS, TYP.
/ PATHWAY LIGHTING—
6’ TALL \ PERIMETER FENCE. ”F1”
SEE SHEET L5D FOR FENCING PLAN

REF. LIGHTING PLANS

EASEMENT "PKRCEL D” 5226 O.R.

Essen “haces 0 & EGRESS
192

GATE (FOR FIRE ACCESS AND
MAINTENANCE ONLY)

BASEMENT EDGE, TYP.

ITLE EXCEPTION #7

TITLE EXCEPTIDN #7 4°X4’ P.U.E. ——
PARCEL \C” 5226 O.R. 192 >

a

EXISTING PERIMETER FENCE —
PROTECT IN PLACE

Path a A
INANE ‘on

TRASH/RECYCLE STAGING ARE
STING LIGHT POLE TO REMAIN, TYP.

SECURITY ACCESS GATE (6’ HIGH)
26.51’ PROPERTY LINE '

/

TRANSFORMER acelss GATE AND SCREEN (5° HIGH)

LOUNGE ||
SEATING ||

SOUTH
OURTYARD
a (4,277 SF.)

te
a AQ

| PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE-
REF. LIGHTING PLANS

TITLE EXCEPTION /#8 EASEMENT FOR THE\ INSTALLATION,
MAINTENANCE, REMOVAL, REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR OF
A BUSINESS STRAET, TOGETHER WITH SIDEWALKS, CURBS
AND GUTTERS, AND INCLUDING THE USE WNDERGROUND

COMMUNITY
PROMENADE

BASEMENT EDGE, TYP.
+10f4.32 |
CENTER OF waa v ——_ 5.00 P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS 29-30
FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES, PER 5278 O.R. 486 STREET \ oF | L i TITLE EXCEPTION #5
| on a a | 5’ P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS 29-30
| cL 50’ DIAMETER — BIKE RACKS WITHIN 101.34 Ly =
aa 50’ OF MAIN ENTRY A 14 +
am | |
om) SECURED ACCESS GATE
\ | | SYNTHETIC TURF
a | | |
Lo ’ | ” ” \ |
~ 6 TALL MAX PERIMETER FENCE F1 ee ae
m4 a J] i
\ SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING (4 BIKES) ie . 4 7] ————e Lo
\ | yy g Pp ml | 5
>
=
5.00'\P.U.E, PER 40 MAPS ta
_ oO
NOTES: 29-30 TITLE EXCEPTION #5 SSS a 4 SE EE tS ©
1. PLAN SHALL COMPLY PROPERTY LINE
WITH ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 27.71
LANDSCAPE FOR

98-36+
PLANNING
2 SECONDARY SECURED SHADED SEATING OUTDOOR SEATING COMMUNAL SHADED 6’ TALL MAX
iS) ENTRY ACCESS AREA AREA: 2278 S-F. SEATING SEATING PERIMETER |
PLAN SHALL COMPLY a
WITH FENCING CODE bs GATE ADJACENT EXISTING AREA AREA SCREEN FENCE "F2
CHAPTER 27.84.010. co! | \ BUILDING a ICING DOAN |
N
5.00’ P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS
| FOC \ . 0A ZN TITLE EVCEDTIONN La
FURNISHING PLAN rir
oO 25° 5‘ 10'
| P| . A | . S DATE: JUNE 28, 2021
1919 O'Farrell Street anning Application set PROVEOT NO: NSCSOS
ARCHITECT: OWNER: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:
A
SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC. ,
DIN \ EDGE Design Group
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 201 Spear Street
DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE e Suite 1100 #3168 SCALE: 1”=10’
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE San Francisco. CA 94105
SUITE 140
IRVINE, CA 92612 * 1.869.882
714.389.1890



--- page 88 ---
TITLE EXCEPTION #6 ABUTTER’S RIGHT’S,
TITLE EXCEPTION #7 PARCEL °F”

NL HIGHWAY 92 RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPE BUFFER
|. O \

10.00 NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT
FOR INGRESS AND EGRESS &
P.U.E. PARCEL a O.R. 192

NON-EXCLUSIVEY INGRESS & EGRESS —
EASEMENT "“PKRCEL D” 5226 O.R.

TITLE at #7 4X4’ P.ULE.

TRANSFORMER acelss GATE AND SCREEN (5° HIGH)

TITLE EXCEPTION /#8 EASEMENT FOR THE\ INSTALLATION,

MAINTENANCE, REMOVAL,

A BUSINESS STRAET, TOGETHER WITH SIDEWALKS, CURBS
AND GUTTERS, AND INCLUDING THE USE WNDERGROUND CENTER OF
FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES, PER 5278 O.R. 486 STREET

INCLUDING ACCESS RIGHTS, RELEASED

AND RELINQUISHED OVER AND ACROSS

THE NORTHERLY LINE OF THE SUBJECT

a PARCEL PER 3655 0.R. 507

5226 O.R. 192 10.00’ P.U.E.

FIRE ACCESS AND MAINTENANCE, TYP.

|
\

192 VITLE EXCEPTION #7

PARCEL \C” 5226 O.R. 192 >

a

TRASH/RECYCLE STAGING ARE
STING LIGHT POLE TO REMAIN, TYP.
SECURITY ACCESS GATE (6’ HIGH)
26.51’ PROPERTY LINE

/

COMMUNITY

| PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE- PROMENADE

REF. LIGHTING PLANS

REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR OF

\

aT SL

SYNTHETIC TURF

5.00'\P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS

PLAN SHALL COMPLY WTH 29-30 TITLE EXCEPTION #5
ZONING CODE CHAPTER 27.71.
LANDSCAPE FOR PLANNING

PLAN SHALL COMPLY WITH
FENCING CODE CHAPTER

PROPERTY LINE
\

N

PROP D TY

FENCING TYPOLOGY
"F1” 6’-0" TALL MAX TUBULAR STEEL
FENCE AT FINISH SURFACE/FINISH GRADE
"F2” 6'-0” TALL MAX WOOD FENCE AT
FINISH SURFACE/FINISH GRADE
"F3” 6-0" TALL MAX FENCE (LEVEL 1
PODIUM WALL + WOOD FENCE)AT FINISH
SURFACE/FINISH GRADE
EXISTING CONCRETE RETAINING WALL
WITH WOOD FENCE (PROTECT IN PLACE)

NOTE: SEE SHEET L10 FOR PERIMETER

— FENCE DETALS

_.
_.

PROPERTY LINE
a

PARKING STRUCTURE BELOW, REFER
TO ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS FOR
/ PLANS, TYP.

PATHWAY LIGHTING—
REF. LIGHTING PLANS

N

GATE (FOR FIRE ACCESS AND
MAINTENANCE ONLY)

BASEMENT EDGE, TYP.

EXISTING PERIMETER FENCE —
PROTECT IN PLACE

BASEMENT EDGE, TYP.

5,00’ P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS 29-30
A TITLE EXCEPTION #5
5’ P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS 29-30

27.84.010. 2 SECONDARY
S ENTRY |
S | ADJACENT EXISTING |
BUILDING
| | 5.00’ P.U.E. PER 40 MAPS
FOC \ 90 3 TITIE EVCEDTIAN 26
FENCING PLAN ris,
I Py 1 A | 1 S DATE: JUNE 28, 2021
1919 O'Farrell Street anning Application set PROJECT NO: WSC9O3
ARCHITECT: OWNER: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:
A
SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC. .
DIN \ 317 OTH AVENUE EDGE Design Group
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 201 Spear Street
DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE e Suite 1100 #3168 SCALE: 17=10’
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823

SHEET #: L5D



--- page 89 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
LANDSCAPE ZONES
NOTE:
REFER TO SHEET L3-PLANTING LEGEND FOR PLANT
MATERIALS, SIZES, AND SQUARE FOOTAGE CALCULATIONS
L6

--- page 90 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L7
NORTH COURTYARD SECTION

--- page 91 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street
Planning Application Set
EDGE Design Group
201 Spear Street
Suite 1100 #3168
San Francisco, CA 94105
415.869.8823
L8
SOUTH COURTYARD SECTION

--- page 92 ---


--- page 93 ---


--- page 94 ---


--- page 95 ---
O

THE-NORTHERLY LINE-OF THE “SUBJECT PARCEL
N76'48'37"¢ PER 3855 OR BOA
ely fl
yO 7
we ae . Sas
a . o-
= ao
“~--7_ INVGB.O5
4 1} Nut
Y/ U ILDING OVERHAI
\ NEW CURB AND ce] } ¥, 8 ALL. HEIGHT| HI >
GUTTER PER CITY. ” Ld VEHICULA rh re a «
STANDA \ LE /
DARDS Lo) \ Sor SAE | i a
° il >
\ \S ps gl | A >
\ \ay \ 1 \ awaLL verb 3 >
Fie > | z T
WORNE “ so SAY . Le
OnAY y S cee > “art
\ pP Z \U GARAGE WALL > vi
, \ yh J \ LOW

AREA WITHIN PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY TO BE.
DEDICATED IN FEE TO

THE CITY OF SAN MATEO

NEW 5.5" WIDE
CITY STANDARY
‘SIDEWALK

lol

TITLE EXCEPTION gt

ABUTTER'S

RELEASED AND RELIN

RIGH

INCLUDING ACCESS RIGHTS,
ISHED OVER AND- ACROSS

[
|
|
a

= | ke }
Ne OVERHANG
Lite | p

tS

2

t!
Lt]
|
}
‘aa | >
f+ y i Le
{
< of : | 1
T e e e e
~ ~ 208.06"

257.21’

alr g
ov

CALTRANS Ryw LEGEND

PROJECT BOUNDARY LINE

ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE

STREET CENTER LINE

VERTICAL CURB
VERTICAL CURB AND GUTTER
NEW CONCRETE

FLOW THROUGH PLANTER

BIORETENTION
SITE LIGHTING
ABBREVIATIONS
= DIA DIAMETER
= FF FINISHED FLOOR
MAX MAXIMUM
PLU. PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
NEW DEEPENED |f/*| TYP TYPICAL
CURE
. a
| ci}
. Fil
. z
. mi
s
a cl

—30'

_5' P.U.E. PER
40 MAPS 2

NEW DEEPENED.
CUR

PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN

ARCHITECT:

BN

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWNER:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

DATE:

06.28.2021
No: 20190585

Planning Application Set

CONSULTANT:

PROJECT

GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°

ETON PST TEE
z 1 1
mA SAN {OSE CALL? SC ~ E 4" ~ 10! - -
(408) 467-9100 =
yr / ‘wwwbkf.com
SHEET #: C1 |



--- page 96 ---
BW(101.66+
CONFORM

101.56
CONFORM

jauuv4

=F
100.68
\ PRC=FL
; Texto oo
101.28
Es CONFORM
\
\ 4
\ Te(101
\ | ‘CONFORM
\
' ‘
P/L NEW FENCE
EXISTING at
ON . PROPOSED
10.25 BUILDING ON
CONC PODIUM
WALK
VARIES
»/ PROPOSED
EXISTING GROUNI GARAGE

NOT TO SCALE

FF104.30
\C104.28

ae

FF 104.30
BASEMENT FF
92.30
F104.
FF104.30
1
C104.28 C104.28

Tc100.83
FL100.75
1” uP
100.98
Tc101.11
FL100.73 Al
RIMT04.80
a N20
0:
a RIMT03.96 .
S 104.08 .
L} voy
x |
1 fr ole
a i x

a

101.15+)
CONFORM.

PROPOSED
BUILDING ON
PODIUM
Conc. .
10.5
RAMP -3
EXISTING WOODEN
+ VARIES 7 IAQ | PUFENCE on Rw
PROPOSED 4 \;
GARAGE st XISTING GROUND pyacng ceouno/
PROPOSED EXISTING SD LINE
BIORETENTION (0 REMAIN

NOT TO SCALE

ARCHITECT:

BN

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

DRIVEWAY,

SECTION C

NOT TO SCALE

CALTRANS R/w

AD

RIM104.80.

> 104.85,

G(98.

LEGEND

PROJECT BOUNDARY LINE
ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
STREET CENTER LINE
VERTICAL CURB

VERTICAL CURB AND GUTTER
NEW CONCRETE

FLOW THROUGH PLANTER

AD
RIM104.80

BIORETENTION

b2e02Qe0

1.6%

FI
RIM101.80 SITE LIGHTING

DIRECTION OF DOWNWARD SLOPE
AND GRADIENT (HARDSCAPE)

F

DIRECTION OF DOWNWARD SLOPE
AND GRADIENT (LANDSCAPE)

MH.
RIM98.8+

(1.8%)
CX.XX

=>
ABBREVIATIONS

BOTTOM OF STEP

EXISTING SLOPE AND GRADIENT
SPOT ELEVATION

B. OVERLAND RELEASE PATH (OLR)
RIM102.00

FF104.30
C104.28

BACK OF WALK
CONCRETE

EASEMENT

FINISHED GRADE

FINISHED FLOOR

FLOW LINE

FINISHED SURFACE
GROUND

LANDSCAPE

PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
PROPERTY LINE

POINT OF REVERSE CURVE
RIGHT OF WAY

RETAINING WALL

Ss ‘SLOPE

‘SIDEWALK

TOP OF CURB

‘OFD.
RIM102.70

FF104.30

104.28

102.85

2 COURTYARD

CONC.

WALK [PROPOSED
VARIES, BUILDING ON

PODIUM
PROPOSED
“NOT TO SCALE
4° MINIMUM

BACK LIF WALK \

13"

MODIFIED STANDARD COMMERCIAL =

NORMAL

. "AX <
vay 4
MAY APPR A SL

a7:

DRIVEWAY APPROACH

JON UR AS
*

EA
PAL
{\ 18°

| +-— DRIVEWAY
EASEMENT FOR APPROACH
STREET 4
MAINTENANCE |New
AND UTILITIES | | |

O'FARRELL
STREET
s/w

RAMP TO
GARAGE
EXISTING rosowarl

NEW MODIFIED STANDARD.
COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY APPROACH

SECTION E

NOT TO SCALE

EARTHWORK QUANTITIES
(ESTIMATED)

CUT:
Fi

RIM102.20

7,225 CU.YD
149 CU.YD

7,076 CU.YD (CUT)

NET

1, EARTHWORK NUMBERS ARE BASED ON NEAT LINE
QUANTITIES AND DOES NOT FACTOR IN ANY
SHRINKAGE ADJUSTMENTS. CONTRACTOR'S BID SHALL
INCORPORATE SHRINKAGE BASED ON ACTUAL FIELD
CONDITIONS AND GEOTECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS.
2. EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ARE FOR
PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY. CONTRACTOR SHALL
PERFORM THEIR OWN EARTHWORK QUANTITY
CALCULATION.

3. CUT AND FILL QUANTITIES DOES NOT ACCOUNT
FOR FOOTING EXCAVATION, UTILITY EXCAVATION,
ELEVATOR PITS, SUMP PITS AND OVER EXCAVATION.
4. EARTHWORK QUANTITIES ARE BASED ON A
CONCRETE SLAB SECTION AND BASE ROCK SECTION
OF 12 INCHES.

-|7P “NOTES

1. NO GRADING WITHIN THE DRIP LINE OF PROTECTED
TREES AND SEE SHEETS L4A and L4B FOR ARBORIST
REPORT.

EA

il |
EASEMENT FOR
, STREET _ |
O'FARRELL MAINTENANCE

STREET AND UTILITIES | | f—s5

Ver RAMP

EXISTING roaowave

NEW CITY STANDARD CURB.
GUTTER AND SIDEWALI

SECTION F

NOT TO SCALE

PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN

CONSULTANT:

H BKF ENGINEERS
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600

OVA SAN JOSE, CA 95112

yr / (408) 467-9100

ENG!

www.bkf.com

c="! Planning Application Set

DATE:
PROJECT

06.28.2021
No: 20190585

GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°

10 0 10 20
SCALE:{"= 10
SHEET #: C2.0



--- page 97 ---
HIGHWAY 92 LEGEND NEW STORM DRAIN LINE

— — — — _ NEW PERFORATED PIPE

—— ss —— __NEW SANITARY SEWER
j i — Fw ——_NEW FIRE LINE
a i —— pw ——_ NEW DOMESTIC WATER LINE
: 1 —— IRR —— NEW IRRIGATION LINE
if NEW UNDERGROUND JOINT
"| . (U3) — TRENCH LINE
~-L. t , > 1 O NEW STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
>ssHH . = / A AD. NEW JUNCTION BOX
__ ites eee . RINTO4. BOY q
aS ; - INV TO BASEMENT; @ _NeW OVERFLOW DRAIN
—= = © NEW AREA DRAIN
— ft Af ee SS - a @® ~NEW BUBBLER BOX
= = F4 eS NEW DOWNsPoUT
= eq { OFD
= = RIM101.80 CO® NEW SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
— I INV96.00
| NEW WATER METER
| "a NEW WATER VALVE
SDMH
I RIM9B.BL +H@+ NEW FIRE HYDRANT
M INV95.5 IN
SEE SHEET C3.1 MEDIA FILTER
FOR CONTINUATION CROWN(95.4) O_O] MEDIA File
a INV(92.9+) THRU
6 I (SIN arp BACKFLOW PREVENTER
RIMIff1.85) SLF S=1.0%
INVgB.05 ] Tt foc% FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
\4RIMI04 80 ; INV96.25 emma TRENCH DRAIN
INV TO
BASEMENT ABBREVIATIONS
AD AREA DRAIN
Se BB BUBBLER BOX
RIMIO 30 BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTER
§ : ow DOMESTIC WATER
{ l FOC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FW FIRE WATER
1 RRAKEN IRR IRRIGATION
co CLEANOUT
lb COMM COMMUNICATION 8OX
ey &B8 ELECTRIC BOX
fo’ EC ELECTRIC CABINET
bs EMH ELECTRIC MANHOLE
ieeectet =P EX, EX. EXISTING
‘d FOC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FM FORCE MAIN
FMCO FORCE MAIN CLEAN OUT
cv GAS VALVE
cw GUY WIRE
INV INVERT ELEVATION
}OFD B JUNCTION BOX
RIM102. 70 JP JOINT POLE
INV99.70 J JOINT TRENCH
a uF LINEAR FEET
. | BB oF. OVERFLOW DRAIN
H RIM102.20 RIM RIM ELEVATION OF STRUCTURE
INV99.9 sD STORM DRAIN
06 soc STORM DRAIN, CURB DRAIN
I soo! STORM DRAIN, DRAINAGE INLET
SDMH STORM DRAIN, MANHOLE
SLD SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
——o Ss SANITARY SEWER
SSMH SANITARY SEWER, MANHOLE
q Ts TRAFFIC SIGNAL
RIM104.80'
INV TO BASEMENT ay UNDERGROUND
W WATER
WM WATER METER
Ww WATER VALVE
i AREA DRAIN TO BE PIPED TO MEDIA FILTER
IN GARAGE
'
(@ NEW COMMERCIAL DW CONNECTION
ee k (3) NEW FIRE WATER CONNECTION
- (4) NEW IRRIGATION WATER CONNECTION
i © CONNECT To EXISTNG MANHOLE
(©) SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE FROM PUMP
(® NEW FIRE HYDRANT
NEW FDC
| () NEW MEDIA FILTER IN GARAGE
NEW PAD MOUNTED TRANSFORMER
| (1) CONNECT TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE
\ \ ' (2) NEW PUMP STATION

©) NEW DISSIPATER BOX IN GARAGE

PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN NEW AREA DRAIN TO BE PIPED

TO PUMP STATION IN GARAGE

1919 OF arrell Street Planning Application Set ered

ARCHITECT: OWNER: CONSULTANT:
GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°
SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC. BKF ENGINEERS
BN 311 9TH AVENUE 1730 N. FIRST STREET 10 0 10 20
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 ODA Non cA 95112 i 7
DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE fing) ser si00 SCALE:{"= 10)
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE yr / vwirw.bk.com

SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612 SHEET #: C3.0

714.389.1890



--- page 98 ---
CALTRANS R/w

SEE SHEET C3.0
FOR CONTINUATION

GRAVITY LINE TO. POISTATI
MEDIA FILTER, SLD
FOR CONTINUATION

(RECEIVES WATER
FROM PODIUM) 0° 18LF 52 O%t

tOLF FORCE
MAIN.

\ un LINE FROM

FLOW THROUGH
— PLANTERS _ __|

4
ner veorryrmelied Sn Rear?

LEGEND

—— SD —— _ NEW STORM DRAIN LINE
— — — — _ NEW PERFORATED PIPE

—— ss —— __NEW SANITARY SEWER
—— Fw —— _NEW FIRE LINE
—— pw —— __ NEW DOMESTIC WATER LINE
—— irk —— NEW IRRIGATION LINE
— tua NE UNDERGROUND JOINT
O NEW STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
& _NEW JUNCTION BOX
@ _NEW OVERFLOW DRAIN
© NEW AREA DRAIN
@ ~NEW BUBBLER BOX

@°S NEW DOWNSPOUT

NEW SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
NEW WATER METER

NEW WATER VALVE

NEW FIRE HYDRANT

O O| MEDIA FILTER

(NIN BFP BACKFLOW PREVENTER
foc FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION

comm TRENCH DRAIN

ABBREVIATIONS

AD AREA DRAIN

8B BUBBLER BOX

BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTER

ow DOMESTIC WATER

FOC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FW FIRE WATER

IRR IRRIGATION

co CLEANOUT

COMM COMMUNICATION BOX

&B ELECTRIC BOX

EC ELECTRIC CABINET

EMH ELECTRIC MANHOLE

EX, EX. EXISTING

FOC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FM FORCE MAIN

FMCO FORCE MAIN CLEAN OUT

cv GAS VALVE

cw GUY WIRE

INV INVERT ELEVATION

B JUNCTION BOX

uP JOINT POLE

JT JOINT TRENCH

UF LINEAR FEET

OFD OVERFLOW DRAIN

RIM RIM ELEVATION OF STRUCTURE
sD STORM DRAIN

sDcD STORM DRAIN, CURB DRAIN
soo! STORM DRAIN, DRAINAGE INLET
SDMH STORM DRAIN, MANHOLE

SLD SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS

Ss SANITARY SEWER

SSMH SANITARY SEWER, MANHOLE
Ts TRAFFIC SIGNAL

(u) UNDERGROUND

UB UTILITY BOX

W WATER

WM WATER METER

Ww WATER VALVE

KEY NOTES

AREA DRAIN TO BE PIPED TO MEDIA FILTER
IN GARAGE

® NEW COMMERCIAL DW CONNECTION

® NEW FIRE WATER CONNECTION

® NEW IRRIGATION WATER CONNECTION

® CONNECT TO EXISTING MANHOLE

© SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE FROM PUMP
® NEW FIRE HYDRANT

NEW FDC

® NEW MEDIA FILTER IN GARAGE

NEW PAD MOUNTED TRANSFORMER:

) CONNECT TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE
(D) NEW PUMP STATION

NEW DISSIPATER BOX IN GARAGE

PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN seas. som sere

TO PUMP STATION IN GARAGE

ARCHITECT:

BN

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

1919 O'Farrell Street Planning Application Set

OWNER: CONSULTANT:
SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC. BKF ENGINEERS
311 9TH AVENUE 1730 N. FIRST STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 ‘SUITE 600

OVA SAN JOSE, CA95112

(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com

DATE: 06.28.2021
PROJECT NO: 20190585

GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°

10 0 10 20
SCALE:{"= 10!



--- page 99 ---
my yy
oo™ gS » [Pe iv
=~ |. > p
v ’ Ra
° > ‘
pr = — + 's ¥ >
¥ = - Vo

I hee

MEDIA FILTER

4

TREATED STORM WATER-
FROM SITE TO CONNECT TO JX-—4
EXISTING DISCHARGE SYSTEM

Ty

IN GARAGE

A-5

;

PUMP STATION FOR |.
TREATED STORMWATER):
TO DISCHARGE

5

TM 5B pe

LEGEND

: A-X ' DRAINAGE AREA BOUNDARY
SEEEeeee

PERVIOUS AREA

SAN
EZ-ZZz FLOW THROUGH PLANTER (PERVIOUS)

» "+" | ARTIFICIAL TURF (IMPERVIOUS)

BIORETENTION (PERVIOUS)

DECOMPOSED GRANITE (IMPERVIOUS)

vy
. CONCRETE (IMPERVIOUS)
© TREE CREDIT (EVERGREEN TREE)
— FLOW DIRECTION

1. SEE SHEET C4.1 FOR THE TREATMENT CONTROL
MEASURE SUMMARY TABLE AND DETAILS.

AREA DRAINS THROUGH PODIUM AND INTO THE
MEDIA FILTER IN THE GARAGE FOR TREATMENT

PRELIMINARY STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWNER:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

ARCHITECT:

BN

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

Planning Application Set

CONSULTANT:

BKF ENGINEERS
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600

OVA SAN JOSE, CA 95112

(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com

DATE:

06.28.2021
No: 20190585

PROJECT

GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°

10 0 10 20

scale P= 10
04.0

SHEET #:



--- page 100 ---
be quickly removed
hed without the use

of toals.

PERFORMANCE

ADVANTAGES
NO GRANULAR MEDIA TO REPLACE

HIGH FLOW RATES AND MAXIMUM
SURFACE AREA

LOADING RATE OF 0.05 GPM / SQ. FT.
FOR MINIMAL MAINTENANCE

FILTERS ARE EASILY REMOVED AND.
(CLEANED BY HAND

ced membrane filtration, en:

ing
The Kraken 89% TSS removal

ce area allows. TSS rem rate. In at

e and minimum) Ve also for onl:

equirements

ne installations,

MEMBRANE
FILTERS

TAPE PERFORMANCE

he Kraken

‘tion from

AVERAGE INFLUENT
CONCENTRATION
(mg/L)

Total Phosphorus 0151

Nitrogen (TKN) 1s
Motor Oil 46
Total Copper 0.042

SPECIFICATIONS

AVERAGE EFFLUENT
CONCENTRATION
(mg/L)

REMOVAL
EFFICIENCY

0.034 2%
1 5 =
07 81%

oon se

brant sn ex Cote

stmucturesize carTrince © MAANEOIA TREATMENT FLOW
) CAPACITY (cfs)

BUILT-IN PRETREATMENT CHAMBER eee we aces il ae
CAPTURES TRASH, SEDIMENTS, DEBRIS, — — — — —
AND HYDROCARBONS :
FILTERS DRY OUT BETWEEN Kez Sixt S61078 5260 18
STORM EVENTS TO PREVENT BIOFILM ; ;

a7 1014 19380 216

GROWTH WHICH CAN CAUSE CLOGGING

AND OTHER PERFORMANCE ISSUES

NJDEP ONLINE INSTALLATION APPROVED.

cotner models and stuctur

MEDIA FILTER

Ye

NTS.

ROOF DOWNSPOUT CONNECTED TO.
PERFORATED DIFFUSER PIPE.

SLD FOR ROCK DISSAPATOR
OVERFLOW DRAIN (SDO), NDS 8”x8".

TREATMENT CONTROL MEASURE SUMMARY
EFFECTIVE TREATMENT AREA*
orainace | DRAINAGE | PERVIOUS | PERVIOUS | npeRvious] ElA* 0.04 | Type oF Pervious | IMPERVIOUS TYPE OF CONFORMS To|
AINA we st SuRgACE wen x 0.1)"aREA (EIA | (SF) cee suRFace (Se) | MPERVIOUS TREATMENT CONTROL SIZE
SF SF) SF) SURFACE PROVIDED STANDARDS?
(SF)) REQUIRED (SF) (SF)
1,070
Ast 2,800 1730 N/A N/A N/A LANDSCAPE cr eam CONCRETE 135 135 SELF-RETAINING Yes
ROOF
A-2 15,535 1,055 N/A N/A N/A LANDSCAPE 14480 RAMP 0.040 CFS 0.045 CFS MEDIA FILTER Yes
CONCRETE
AS 895 35 4 864 35 eal 860 ROOF 4 35 FLOW THROUGH PLANTER TM 3 Yes
Aad 2,625 110 " 2526 101 FON anaucH 2,515 ROOF 101 110 FLOW THROUGH PLANTER TM 4 Yes
BIORE TENTION
FLOW THROUGH ROOF BIORETENTION TM 5A
As 5,580 870 87 4797 192 PLANTER 4710 CONCRETE 186 260 FLOW THROUGH PLANTER TM 58 ves
LANDSCAPE
A-6 1,750 85 9 1674 67 FN 1,665 ROOF 67 85 FLOW THROUGH PLANTER TM 6 Yes
A-7 715 465 47 297 12 BIORE TENTION 250 CONCRETE 10 110 BIORETENTION TM 7 Yes
A-8 1,090 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1,090 CONCRETE N/A N/A NO TREATMENT DEDICATION TO YES

*TREATMENT AREAS REQUIRED: FLOW THROUGH PLANTER (4% OF IMPERVIOUS AREA), SELF—RETAINING (1/2 OF IMPERVIOUS AREA)

**CALCULATION BASED ON 0.2 INCH/HOUR TREATMENT
REQUIREMENT AND RATIONAL METHOD. SEE THIS SHEET FOR
OLDCASTLE MEDIA FILTRATION DETAIL.

Q=FLOW IN CUBIC FEET PER SECOND (CFS)

2 IN/HR
A=IMPERVIOUS AREA IN ACRES =16810 SF =0.39 AC

Q=0.066 CFS
*** IMPERVIOUS AREA AFTER TREE CREDIT

ARCHITECT:

BN

DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
2062 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
SUITE 140

IRVINE, CA 92612
714.389.1890

1919 O'Farrell Street

OWN

ER:

SIERRA INVESTMENTS, INC.
311 9TH AVENUE

SAN MATEO, CA 94401

ATRIUM GRATE (#1290) WITH NDS.

(CAN BE

‘ADAPTER (#1221)
USED FOR CLEAN OUT)

TREATMENT SOIL. SEE SAN MATEO.
COUNTY "C.3 STORM WATER
TECHNICAL GUIDANCE” APPENDIX K
FOR SOIL SPECIFICATIONS

8” SOLID PVC RISER

4” PERFORATED PIPE:

CONCRETE PLANTER WALLS-—————=}

TABLE 1 - A-1

a
A

a

crt BELOW

‘SEE PLUMBING PLANS.
WATERPROOFING,

COFLOW THROUGH PLANTER ON STRUCTURE

NTS.

INTERCEPTOR TREE CREDIT (EXISTING)

TREE
TYPE

IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE (SQ. FT.)| ©

(SQ. FT.)

TOTAL

(SQ. FT.)
CREDIT

"ANOPY | CREDIT
SiZE__| ALLOWED

®

8
g
Zz
Fa
Qo

AREA A-8)

©

800 800

1,070

REMAINDER OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE REQUIRING TREATMENT

PRELIMINARY STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN

Planning Application Set

CONSULTANT:

BKF ENGINEERS
1730 N. FIRST STREET
‘SUITE 600

DATE:

06.28.2021

PROJECT

No: 20190585

GRAPHIC SCALE: 1” = 10°

10 0 10 20

OVA SAN JOSE, CA95112

yr / (408) 467-9100

www.bkf.com

SHEET #:

SCALENIA
C4.1



--- page 101 ---


--- page 102 ---
PITCH SINGLE wa sco

LIGHTING FIXTURE SCHEDULE

4 A . sane

= Eroes ——.
ee — a
— — | = :
eas * —— : «
ee Il
‘ . ~ ==

1919 O'Farrell Street

SITE LIGHTING FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Planning Application Set

Studio

06.28.2021


--- page 103 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM 
NAME: 1919 O’Farrell Street 
Apartments (SPAR + SDPA + 
Fence Exception) 
PA: PA-2020-037 
ADDRESS: 1919 O’Farrell Street 
LOT SIZE: 30,994 sq. ft. / 0.71 
acre 
ZONING: E1-1/R4 
APN: 039-030-340 
FLOOR AREA 
Residential (net): 
Common Area: 
TOTAL: 
PROPOSED 
46,192 sq. ft. 
9,349 sq. ft. 
55,463 sq. ft. 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
- 
- 
61,988 sq. ft. 
F.A.R.: 
1.79 
2.0 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
69 units/acre1 
50 units/acre 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
 
45’-0” 
45’-0” 
STORIES: 
4 
 
- 
UNITS: 
Base Density 
State Density Bonus 1 
TOTAL: 
 
- 
- 
49  
 
36 
13 
49 
UNIT TYPE     
 
1-Bedroom: 
2-Bedroom: 
3-Bedroom+: 
TOTAL: 
NO. 
 
34 
11 
4 
49 
 
PROPOSED SIZE 
 
746 – 965 sq. ft. 
1,172 – 1,188 sq. ft. 
1,556 sq. ft. 
 
MINIMUM SIZE 
 
540 sq. ft. 
750 sq. ft. 
960 sq. ft. 
SETBACKS: 
Front: 
Left Side: 
Right Side: 
Rear:   
 
PROPOSED 2  
5’-0” 
5’-0” 
5’-0” 
5’-0” 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
½ height of building (21.5’) 
½ height of building (21.5’) 
½ height of building (21.5’) 
½ height of building (21.5’) 
PARKING: 
 
PROPOSED 3 
64 stalls 
(Including 39 stalls in 
automated mechanical parking 
system) 4 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
25 stalls 
BICYCLE PARKING 
Short-term: 
Long-term: 
TOTAL:  
 
PROPOSED 
4 
54 
58 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
3 
54 
57 
OPEN SPACE 
Common: 
      
Private: 
TOTAL: 
 
PROPOSED 
6,643 sq. ft. 
AND 
4,809 sq. ft. 
11,542 sq. ft. 
 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
5,880 sq. ft. 
OR 
3,920 sq. ft. 
 
 
LOT COVERAGE: 
44.22% open at-grade 
35% open at-grade 
TREES: 
  Heritage Trees Removed  
  Non-Heritage Trees Removed  
  Heritage Trees Preserved  
  Non-Heritage Trees Preserved 
 
2 
9 
12 
0

--- page 104 ---
FOOTNOTES: 
1. The applicant has requested a 35% density bonus through the State Density Bonus Law. 
2. The applicant has requested to reduce setback requirements as a waiver through the State 
Density Bonus Law. 
3. The applicant has requested to provide the reduced parking ratio of 0.5 stalls per unit through 
State Density Bonus Law. 
4. The applicant has requested to use an automated mechanical parking system as a concession 
through the State Density Bonus Law. The applicant has also requested to eliminate the required 
overhead parking space clearance for the puzzle lift parking systems as a waiver through the State 
Density Bonus Law.

--- page 105 ---
Page 1   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
Density Bonus Letter 
 
Sierra Investments 
311 9th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401  
July 17, 2020 
Aaron Aknin 
Planning Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
RE:  1919 O’Farrell Street, State Density Bonus Law Letter of Intent 
 
Dear Mr. Aknin, 
As you know, Sierra Investments Inc. formally submitted an application on May 29, 
2020 (Application) for a 49-unit residential apartment housing development, including 
four (4) units affordable to very low income (VLI) households (Project) located at 1919 
O’Farrell Street, San Mateo, California (City). The Application included notification of 
intent to apply under the California State Density Bonus Law (SDBL).  As requested, 
this letter consolidates the Project’s SDBL eligibility and requests as a supplement the 
Application. We also reserve all rights to modify its request for density bonus, identify and 
request any waivers, concessions/incentives as the Project moves through the entitlement process. 
 
The Project is located within a Transit Priority Area in Plan Bay Area 2040, within ½ 
mile of major transit1 with unobstructed access, and will provide much needed rental 
housing within walking distance of a number of shops, transit, employment, parks and services. 
 
The purpose of the SDBL is to encourage cities to offer bonuses and incentives to 
housing developers that will contribute significantly to the economic feasibility of lower 
income housing in proposed housing developments.2  As a preliminary matter, depending 
upon the specific amount and level of affordable housing provided, any project with more than 
five (5) residential units3 may be eligible for all or any of the following separate categories: 
 
 
1 http://opendata.mtc.ca.gov/datasets/transit-priority-areas-2017?geometry=-122.396%2C37.539%2C-
122.233%2C37.562 
2 Gov, Code § 65915. 
3 Gov. Code §65915(a)(1), (h) and (b)(1).

--- page 106 ---
Page | 2   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
(1) A density bonus, if requested the applicant, over the otherwise “maximum allowable 
residential density”  defined by the maximum allowed in the General Plan;4 
(2) Any (unlimited in number) modifications/waivers of development standards necessary to 
physically accommodate the development as proposed (meaning such standard would have the 
effect of  “physically precluding the construction” of the proposed development), taking into 
account any concessions or incentives (e.g., height limit, setbacks, floor area ratio, lot coverage, 
etc.);5  
(3) Up to a maximum of three (3) incentives/concessions that result in identifiable and actual 
cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs (this does not require, but authorizes, a 
jurisdiction to consider fee reductions and waivers) depending on the level and amount of 
affordable housing provided;6 and  
(4) Specified mandatory maximum parking ratios.7  
1.   DENSITY BONUS 
 
The Property is designated Executive Office/High Density Residential in the General 
Plan, and zoned E1-1/R4, which allows a maximum of 50 units per acre.  The Property 
is 0.71 acres or up to 36 units of base density (rounded up from 35.6). Because the 
Project proposes 4 VLI units, or eleven (11) percent of the base density, the Project is eligible 
for up to the maximum density bonus of 35% of the base density or thirteen (13) additional 
units or a total of 49 units.8    
➢ The Project proposes a density bonus of 13 units. 
 
2.   PHYSICAL WAIVERS 
 
A SDBL-eligible project may request a waiver or reduction of any development 
standards that would have the effect of physically precluding the construction of the 
project at the  densities or with the incentives permitted under the statute.9  The 
definition of a “development standard” includes a site or construction condition, 
including, without limitation, local height, setback, floor area ratio, onsite open space, 
and parking area ratio requirements that would otherwise apply to residential 
development pursuant to  ordinances, general plan elements, specific plans, charters, or 
 
4 Gov. Code §65915(f) and (o)(2). “Maximum allowable residential density” means the density allowed under the 
zoning ordinance and land use element of the general plan, or, if a range of density is permitted, means the 
maximum allowable density for the specific zoning range and land use element of the general plan applicable to the 
project. If the density allowed under the zoning ordinance is inconsistent with the density allowed under the land use 
element of the general plan, the general plan density shall prevail.  Gov. Code Section 65915(f) and (o)(2). 
5 Gov. Code §65915(e). 
6 Gov. Code §65915(k) and (l). 
7 Gov. Code §65915(p)(1). 
8 Gov. Code §65915(f)(2) and (g)(2) (allows rounding up). Calculation: 36 x 13% =13 (rounded up from 12.6).  36 + 
13 =49.  
9 Gov. Code §65915(e).

--- page 107 ---
Page | 3   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
other local condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation.10 A request for a 
development standard waiver can be unlimited in number and neither  reduces 
nor increases the number of concessions/incentives to which the developer is 
otherwise entitled.11   
 
The Project requests the following waivers: 
Per Section 27.44.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, “No building or open parking areas 
shall constructed or enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in 
connection with such buildings, structures, parking lots, or enlargements:  yards not less than 
15 feet along any street frontage.  In addition, per Section 27.44.090(a) of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, “When an E1-zoned plot is contiguous to any residential district, an adequate 
landscape buffer shall be maintained adjacent to the R-zoned property. The depth of this buffer 
along street frontages shall be at least equal to one-half the height of the building measured from 
the property line. The depth of this buffer along interior lot lines shall be at least equal to one-half 
the height of the building, or 15 feet, whichever is greater.”   
 
In order to allocate the requisite space for the Project, the Project proposes the required setbacks 
be reduced from the larger of 15 feet or one-half the height of the building to five feet.  Although 
the Project will exceed this five foot dimension in the majority setback areas, the Project will 
require a pinch point of five feet at the southeast portion of the site where it borders the southern 
property line.  The setback waiver is required to keep the Project’s proposed height at 4 stories 
and conform to the zoning height limit.  Without the reductions, the Project would require an 
additional story in order to accommodate the same number of units and exceed the zoning height 
limit of 45 feet. 
 
➢ The Project requests the City waive these required setbacks as physically precluding 
the construction of the Project at the  densities or with the incentives permitted under 
the statute.  
 
The “A.5 Sidewalk Standards – Residential Type C New Development” (Pedestrian Design 
Guidelines) require an overall 9.5-feet sidewalk width (4.5 feet of planting and 5.5 feet through 
zone) and would require a redesign that would affect the density of the Project.  We also note that 
there are utility constraints on-site such as location of meter boxes, back flow preventers and an 
above ground transformer all located at the frontage, the trash set up is located at the frontage next 
to the above ground transformer, and there will be grading constraints east of the garage ramp. 
The first floor of the building is approximately 3’ higher than the sidewalk, and the Project is 
proposing ramps to meet the back of walk grades from the first floor. Lastly, the Project is located 
at the end of a cul-de-sac with minimal frontage. 
 
➢ The Project requests the City waive the minimum required sidewalk width to allow a 
5’ sidewalk width required setbacks as the wider sidewalk and related necessary 
 
10 Gov. Code §65915(o)(1). 
11 Gov. Code §65915(e)(2). We note that under the SDBL, the City may not request  pro forma or other report 
demonstrating cost savings in connection with the above-requested physical waivers.

--- page 108 ---
Page | 4   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
changes would physically precluding the construction of the Project at the densities or 
with the incentives permitted under the statute.  
 
In order to allocate the requisite parking spaces for the Project, the Project proposes the required 
standard parking space width from structural elements clearances of 9 feet and 10 feet to be 
reduced to 8’-9” and 9’-9” respectively.  In addition, the Project proposes the required distance 
from drive aisles to the back of structural columns to be waived.  For the majority of the proposed 
Project parking spaces, the design can accommodate this requirement.  However, for some 
parking spaces, primarily at the semi-automatic parking system locations, there is not enough 
space to accommodate this requirement.  This waiver is required to keep the proposed parking 
design, due to the physical constraints of the site.  The Project’s parking layout is too constrained 
to provide the required clearances from structural elements.  The site is physically constrained due 
to its uniquely inefficient shape, and also further constrained due to the shared goal with the City 
of preserving the existing heritage trees.  The Project’s subterranean parking layout has limited its 
footprint along the east and west in order to keep a safe distance from the heritage trees 
designated for preservation. 
  
➢ The Project requests the City waive the minimum parking space clearances from 
structural elements, as they would be physically precluding the construction of the 
Project at the densities or with the incentives permitted under the statute. 
 
3.  CONCESSIONS/INCENTIVES 
 
Separate and apart from physical waivers, the Project is eligible for one (1) concession 
or incentive because the Project includes 8% - or more than 5% - of total units for very 
low income households.12 (§ 65915(d)(2)(B)). This Project Application is currently 
requesting one concession/incentive, and reserves the right to modify this  concession or 
incentive if necessary as the review of the design of the building proceeds. 
Although it is currently under consideration, the San Mateo municipal code does not currently 
have a provision for utilizing a mechanical parking system to satisfy parking requirements. In 
order to preserve a majority of the on-site heritage trees and maximize open space for this 
project, the footprint of the below grade parking garage requires a minimal footprint.  Without 
the use of a mechanical parking system, the project would require additional levels of parking 
below grade, which is incredibly challenging given the size and shape of the project site.  The 
estimated cost to construct parking a second level below grade is estimated to be over $3.5 
million in additional costs, which includes the approximately $500,000 of dewatering, since 
groundwater was found at 9.5 feet below the surface per the project’s geotechnical report.  
Approximately $3 million would be required for the additional 22,450 SF basement level of 
parking (concrete, mechanical ventilation, sprinklers, lighting, waterproofing, shoring, etc.) at 
 
12 Gov. Code §65915(d)(2)(B).

--- page 109 ---
Page | 5   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
$135/SF.  With this additional cost, providing the proposed affordable units becomes financially 
infeasible.13 
➢ The Project proposes to use mechanical parking system to meet the parking requirements 
of the proposed Project as a concession/incentive. 
 
4.   MANDATORY MAXIMUM PARKING RATIOS 
 
The Project is located less than ½ mile from major transit, is proving the maximum percentage of 
VLI units (11%) under SDBL Section 65915(f)(2), and has unobstructed access14 to a major 
transit stop.  Therefore under the SDBL, “upon the request of the developer, a city, county, or city 
and county shall not impose a vehicular parking ratio, inclusive of parking for persons with a 
disability and guests, that exceeds 0.5 spaces per unit.”  Therefore, the maximum parking ratio for 
the Project: 
 
• 
1 BR Units, 34 x 0.5 = 17 
• 
2 BR Units, 11 x 0.5 = 6 
• 
3 BR Units, 4 x 0.5 = 2 
• 
Total Parking Required = 25 spaces 
 
Under the current design, the Project is applying under SDBL(p)(2), but proposes to voluntarily 
exceed the SDBL by providing a total of 64 spaces, of which 39 are proposed to be provided by 
mechanical parking stackers.15  This would provide for 1 onsite parking space per studio and one 
bedroom units and 2 onsite parking spaces for two and three bedroom units with no guest parking, 
which is permitted for rental projects utilizing the State Density Bonus. 
We appreciate your consideration of this request. Please contact me should you have any 
questions regarding our proposed plans. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Victor Lo 
Sierra Investments 
311 9th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401  
 
13 We note that under the SDBL, the City may not request  pro forma or other report demonstrating cost savings in 
connection with incentives/concessions. The City bears the burden for denial of a requested concession incentive. 
See Gov. Code Section 65915(d)(1)-(4).) 
14  “[A] resident is able to access the major transit stop without encountering natural or constructed impediments.” 
Gov. Code Section 65915(p)(2).   
15 City offsite parking requirements would require 92 spaces.

--- page 110 ---
December 14, 2020
Ms. Somer Smith
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:	
1919 O’Farrell Street
Dear Somer:
I reviewed a previous design for this site one year ago. In reviewing the current drawings and the site context, I have the fol-
lowing comments.
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
The site is located at the end of a short cul-de-sac which also contains the City Hall, a one-story office building over 
underground parking, a four-story office structure, a two-story parking structure serving City Hall and the larger office 
building, and a multifamily residential complex over below grade parking. Also adjacent immediately to the east of the 
site is a recently constructed multifamily residential project over underground parking. Photographs of the site and 
surrounding context are shown below and on the following page.
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN

--- page 111 ---
Air Photo with Proposed Site Plan
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 2

--- page 112 ---
The Site
View to site looking down O’Farrell Street
Office building and parking structure to 
the immediate left
Nearby multifamily residential on O’Farrell Street
Nearby City Hall on O’Farrell Street
Office building to the immediate right  on O’Farrell 
Street
Immediately adjacent multifamily complex to the east
Nearby multifamily residential on O’Farrell Street
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 3

--- page 113 ---
DESIGN OVERVIEW
Major features along with plan and facade examples.
•	 Four stories of multifamily residential development.
•	 One level of below grade parking.
•	 Two Common Open Space Areas. 
•	 Exterior gated entry.
•	 Contemporary design with substantial facade variety.
O’Farrel View Looking N.E.
Courtyard View Looking N.W.
Highway 92 View Looking S.E.
Courtyard View Looking S.E.
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 4

--- page 114 ---
ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Without question, this is a difficult site to develop efficiently. It is a relatively small site which is narrow and deep. 
A portion of the site is encroached upon by the pavement bulb of the cul-de-sac. The goal of retaining the existing 
Redwood trees on the northwest edge of the property has also been a significant constraint.
The floor plans and elevations have been substantially revised since I reviewed the previous design in December of 
2019. In this revised design, the existing redwood trees would be retained, the garage entrance ramps are less intrusive, 
the common open spaces are more useful, and the architectural building design has been greatly improved.
Overall, it is a much better design, and very well done given the substantial challenges in developing a coherent design 
for this awkward site. I have only a few issues to bring to staff’s attention. The issues and recommendation are as follows.
1.	 The distance between the vehicle drop off area and the Lobby is quite long.
2.	 The Lobby seems pretty minimal in size for a multifamily residential project of this size and quality.
Recommendation: Given the obvious issues, it is likely that a full range of alternative options has been explored by 
the design team. Staff should discuss this with the applicant to see if other approaches might mitigate the walking 
distance to and size of the Lobby. Another mitigation measure could be to add a weather covering over the long 
walkway to the Lobby. A couple of examples are shown below.
3. The open stair well seems unusual for a project of this quality.
Recommendation: Consider adding glazing to the exterior wall of the stair well.
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 5

--- page 115 ---
4.	 The retention of the cluster of redwood trees at the westerly edge of the property is very good both in terms of the 
streetscape terminus of the cul-de-sac and the provision of a high quality open space amenity for the residents and 
their guests. Access to this common open space amenity, however, is not very good, and would be highly inconve-
nient for any disabled residents or guests. Access routes are long with many stairs along the way - not ideal for the 
open space’s intended use as an outdoor barbecue and dining area.
Recommendation: Explore more direct access route and floor-height-to-open space transitions.
5.	 The cul-de-sac terminus bulb forces the resident and guest entry, garage entry ramp, trash pick up and utility con-
nections into a limited frontage area. The operational features are not the best neighbors for the pedestrian entry 
experience.
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 6

--- page 116 ---
Recommendation: Enclose the ground-mounted transformer. One example can be found at the San Mateo Met-
ropolitan Apartments on the Fifth Avenue frontage - see photo below. 
Additional landscaping would be desirable to soften the appearance of this small area and to visually separate the 
pedestrian entry from the garage ramps and transformer - see plan on page 6 and sketch illustration below.
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 7

--- page 117 ---
6.	 The project garage and hardscape is constructed up or very close to the northerly property line, leaving little 
area for adequate landscape buffering along the edge of the CalTrans Highway 92 right-of-way. While that would 
not be a problem along many portions of the Highway 92 frontage, it is an issue adjacent to this site since there is 
very limited tree landscaping in this portion of the frontage - see photos below.
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 8

--- page 118 ---
Recommendation: Explore ways to add buffer landscaping along the north property line. One avenue to explore 
would be the potential of adding tall, shallow-rooted plantings. One example approved by the San Mateo Planning 
Commission is the Hillsdale Terrace mixed use project on El Camino Real at 28th Avenue. Faced with the need to 
buffer views of the structure from existing neighbors and planting areas limited by the size of the below grade park-
ing structure, the applicant explored and proposed tall bamboo buffer landscaping. Bamboo is a form of grass that 
is rapid growing and needs limited soil width and depth - see illustration below.
Somer, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are any other important issues that I did not ad-
dress.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
1919 O’Farrell Street
Review Comments
December 14, 2020	Page 9

--- page 119 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street, San Mateo 
Transportation Impact Assessment 
April 12, 2021 
Prepared for the City of San Mateo 
SF20-1129

--- page 120 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
 
345 California Street | Suite 450 | San Francisco, CA 94104 | (415) 348-0300 | Fax (415) 773-1790   
www.fehrandpeers.com 
 
Contents 
Executive Summary .................................................................................................................. 1 
Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 2 
1919 O’Farrell Street - Project Description ............................................................................ 3 
Existing Transportation Conditions ........................................................................................ 3 
Existing Roadway Network ...................................................................................................................................... 3 
Existing Pedestrian Facilities .................................................................................................................................... 6 
Existing Bicycle Facilities ........................................................................................................................................... 7 
Existing Transit Service ........................................................................................................................................... 11 
Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations .................................................................................... 14 
Existing Intersection Level of Service ................................................................................................................ 16 
Existing Parking Conditions .................................................................................................................................. 17 
Existing Plus Project Conditions ........................................................................................... 18 
Project Trip Generation and Distribution ........................................................................................................ 18 
Plus Project VMT ....................................................................................................................................................... 21 
VMT Screening .................................................................................................................................................. 21 
Plus Project Vehicle Volumes and Level of Service ..................................................................................... 22 
Cumulative Conditions .......................................................................................................... 24 
Cumulative Roadway Network and Traffic Volumes .................................................................................. 24 
Cumulative Intersection Level of Service ......................................................................................................... 24 
Additional Transportation Analysis ...................................................................................... 28 
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation ................................................................................................................... 28 
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation ........................................................................................ 28 
Transit Access and Circulation ............................................................................................................................. 29 
Driveway Sight Distance ........................................................................................................................................ 30 
Vehicle Queuing ........................................................................................................................................................ 30 
Parking Conditions ................................................................................................................................................... 30 
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access.......................................................................................................... 30 
Neighborhood Traffic.............................................................................................................................................. 31 
Conclusion .............................................................................................................................. 33

--- page 121 ---
O’Farrell Street
West 20th Avenue
54 long-term bicycle parking spaces on-site
4 short-term bicycle parking spaces on-site
No adverse eﬀects to bicycle circulation created by the project
» Pedestrians access the project site 
via the main staircase and ramps
» Sidewalks in good condition and 
meet ADA standards
No adverse eﬀects to pedestrian 
circulation created by the project
» Project will generate new riders 
on Caltrain and SamTrans
No adverse eﬀects to transit 
created by the project
» 9 new AM peak hour and 12 new 
PM peak hour vehicle trips compared 
to existing land uses
» Driveway site distance and parking 
is compliant with code
» No vehicle queuing expected
» Study intersection does not warrant 
a signal
» No signiﬁcant VMT impact due to    
proximity to high quality transit (within a 
1/2 mile of Hayward Park Caltrain Station)
1919 O’Farrell
» 4 stories
» 49 multifamily apartments
» 64 parking spaces
*Image is a current representation 
of the project
1919 O’Farrell
» 4 stories
» 49 multifamily apartments
» 64 parking spaces
*Image is a current representation 
of the project
CEQA IMPACTS
ADDITIONAL 
TRANSPORTATION 
ANALYSIS
This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to 1919 
O’Farrell Street in the City of San Mateo. The proposed Project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, 
bicycle, pedestrian, or transit circulation, or hazards and emergency access. The proposed project would not 
cause the study intersection to exceed the level of service standard as speciﬁed in the City’s Circulation 
Element of the 2030 General Plan, i.e. the acceptable level of service standards that were in place on August 
4, 2020, at the time of the Senate Bill 330 Application.1 The Project presents no adverse circulation issues 
and meets the code for design. 
Study Intersection
» Less than 1 second of 
additional delay during 
commute hours added 
by the project
» Acceptable traﬃc 
operations for all 
scenarios
1. The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 
2020 that freezes codes and policies in eﬀect of its submitted date.
1. The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 
2020 that freezes codes and policies in eﬀect of its submitted date.
No adverse eﬀects to vehicle 
circulation or Level of Service 
created by the project
1919 O’Farrell TIA 
Executive Summary
»  Minimal impact on 
neighborhood traﬃc
» No new hazards or 
impact to emergency 
access

--- page 122 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 2 of 33 
 
 
Introduction 
This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to 
1919 O’Farrell Street in the City of San Mateo. Conditions are evaluated for the current site 
without the proposed project, for plus project near-term conditions, and for cumulative 2040 
conditions with and without the proposed project. The topics presented herein are based on the 
City of San Mateo’s Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines (July 2020) and are intended 
to disclose the transportation related CEQA impacts and local transportation effects of the 
project. These topics include an assessment of vehicle level of service, vehicle miles traveled, site 
access and circulation, driveway site distance and vehicle queuing, parking, hazards and 
emergency vehicle access, and neighborhood traffic. Although the new TIA Guidelines were 
referenced to frame this report, the developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 
4, 2020 that freezes codes and policies in effect of its submitted date. At the time of application, 
the City had adopted the State’s Office of Planning and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA 
Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis. Those interim guidelines are followed in 
this report. 
Methodology 
The study area for this Project includes O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue in the vicinity of 
O’Farrell Street.  The intersection of O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue is the sole study 
intersection1. Transportation conditions were evaluated for the weekday peak periods of 7:00-9:00 
AM and 4:00-6:00 PM in a manner consistent with the interim TIA Guidelines at the time2. Due to 
COVID-19, Streetlight Data was used in lieu of in-person vehicle counts.  
Based on recent changes to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines with the 
implementation of SB 743 and guidance from the OPR, VMT is recommended as the appropriate 
measure of transportation impacts under CEQA. LOS and other similar vehicle delay or capacity 
metrics can no longer serve as transportation impact metrics for CEQA analysis. As stated in the 
interim TIA Guidelines, the City of San Mateo shifted to using VMT for CEQA impact evaluation 
 
1 Due to the small number of new trips the project is expected to generate during the peak hours, only the 
closest intersection at the end of the block was selected for operations analysis. The project driveway was 
selected for a qualitative review. 
2 The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 2020 that freezes codes and policies in 
effect of its submitted date. At the time of application, the City had adopted the State’s Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis.

--- page 123 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 3 of 33 
 
 
but continues to evaluate LOS analysis for land use development projects through the non-CEQA 
local transportation analysis.  
1919 O’Farrell Street - Project Description 
The 1919 O’Farrell Street Project (herein described as the Project) proposes to construct a 4-story, 
49-unit multifamily apartment community with subterranean parking. The Project site, as seen in 
Figure 1, is located at 1919 O’Farrell Street in the City of San Mateo, near San Mateo City Hall. 
Apartment amenities will include bike storage, a community room, private balconies, and a 
courtyard.  
The Project is located on a 0.71-acre parcel with an existing 3,976 square foot building composed 
of four units. Two units are vacant and the other two are occupied by dentist offices. The Project 
proposes to demolish the existing building and construct a 55,541 square foot multifamily 
apartment community. An underground parking garage will be located beneath the site with 64 
vehicle parking spaces. The garage will be accessed via O’Farrell Street.   
Existing Transportation Conditions 
Transportation topics are discussed in the following order: roadway network, pedestrian facilities, 
bicycle facilities, transit service, vehicle volumes and lane configurations, intersection level of 
service, and parking conditions.  
Existing Roadway Network 
As shown in Figure 1, the Project Site is located at the cul-de-sac terminus of O’Farrell Street. 
O’Farrell Street is one-block in length and intersects with West 20th Avenue. O’Farrell Street is the 
only entry and exit point to the site. El Camino Real and Alameda de las Pulgas are the two 
nearest regional access routes, both of which provide connection to State Route 92.  
O’Farrell Street is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each direction and on-
street parking and sidewalks on each side of the street. The roadway is approximately 35 feet 
wide and each sidewalk is approximately six feet wide. O’Farrell Street intersects West 20th Avenue 
to the south of the Project Site, with side-street stop control for O’Farrell Street.  
West 20th Avenue is a two-way east-west collector street with one travel lane in each direction 
near the Project Site. Sidewalks are provided on both sides of the street and two-hour parking is 
permitted between Isabelle Avenue and La Salle Drive between 8 AM and 6 PM Monday through 
Friday. Closer to El Camino Real, West 20th Avenue becomes a four-lane road with two travels 
lanes in each direction and no on-street parking. The roadway is approximately 35 feet wide and

--- page 124 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 4 of 33 
 
 
each sidewalk is approximately six feet wide. Where West 20th Avenue intersects with O’Farrell 
Street, West 20th Avenue is not stop-controlled.  
El Camino Real (State Route 82) is a two-way north-south street with three travel lanes in each 
direction and left-turn pockets at most intersections. The roadway has on-street parking and 
sidewalks on each side of the street. The roadway is approximately 95 feet wide and each 
sidewalk is approximately seven feet wide. El Camino Real meets West 20th Avenue east of the 
Project Site at a signalized intersection. El Camino Real connects to State Route 92 to the north of 
the Project Site, which connects travelers to I-280 and US-101. 
Alameda de las Pulgas is a north-south street with two travel lanes in each direction. The roadway 
has on-street parking and sidewalks on each side of the street. The roadway is approximately 65 
feet wide and each sidewalk is approximately four feet wide. Alameda de las Pulgas meets West 
20th Avenue west of the Project Site at a signalized intersection. Alameda de las Pulgas also 
connects to State Route 92 to the north of the Project Site, which connects travelers to I-280 and 
US-101. 
SR 92 is a four-to-six-lane east-west freeway extending from Half Moon Bay in west San Mateo 
County to Hayward in Alameda County. Project access to SR 92 is available via a full interchange 
at El Camino Real and at on/off ramps along Alameda de las Pulgas; both access points are 
approximately a half-mile from the Site.

--- page 125 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Project Site
Figure 1
0.5 mi

--- page 126 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 6 of 33 
 
 
Existing Pedestrian Facilities 
Sidewalks are provided on all approaches to the Project Site on O’Farrell Street and West 20th 
Avenue. Sidewalks are generally in good condition, with curb ramps at all intersections, and are 
approximately five to seven feet wide within the vicinity of the Project Site. The sidewalk narrows 
at the turnaround in front of the Project Site to approximately four and a half to five feet wide.  
The intersection of O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue is a one-way stop-controlled 
intersection with only a marked east-west crosswalk. The crosswalk is faded in places. The nearest 
marked north-south crosswalk across West 20th Avenue from the Project site is at the intersection 
of West 20th Avenue and Isabelle Avenue, approximately 250 feet west of O’Farrell Street. There 
are no marked north-south crosswalks across West 20th Avenue between El Camino Real and 
Isabelle Avenue, which is approximately 1,500 feet. 
Sidewalks on West 20th Avenue are approximately six feet wide and are generally in good 
condition. The West 20th Avenue and Chukker Court/Stratford Way intersection is two-way stop-
controlled and, as a school zone crossing has marked yellow, high visibility zebra-striped 
crosswalks at three of the intersection approaches. 
As pedestrians approach the intersection of West 20th Avenue and El Camino Real, the sidewalks 
widen from approximately six feet to seven feet but the northern sidewalk is cluttered with trees 
and poles that take up much of the available sidewalk space, as shown in the above photo. El 
West 20th Avenue towards El Camino Real 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2020 
Faded crosswalk O’Farrell and West 20th Avenue  
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2020

--- page 127 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 7 of 33 
 
 
Camino Real is a signalized intersection with pedestrian push buttons and a crossing distance of 
approximately 95 feet in the east-west direction.   
Existing Bicycle Facilities 
Bikeway planning and design in California typically relies on guidelines and design standards 
established by California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) in the Highway Design Manual 
(Chapter 1000: Bikeway Planning and Design). The Caltrans guidelines cover four primary types of 
bikeway facilities: Class I, Class II, Class III, and Class IV. These facilities types are described below. 
• 
Class I Bikeway (Bike Path) provides a completely separate right-of-way, is designated for 
the exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians and minimizes vehicle and pedestrian cross-
flow. In general, bike paths serve corridors that are not served by existing streets and 
highways, or where sufficient right-of-way exists for such facilities to be constructed. 
 
Class II Bikeways (Bike Lanes) are lanes for bicyclists generally adjacent to the outer 
vehicle travel lanes. These lanes have special lane markings, pavement legends, and 
signage. Bicycle lanes are generally five feet wide. Adjacent vehicle parking and 
vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow are permitted. Note that when grade separation or buffers 
are constructed between the bicycle and vehicle lanes, these facilities are classified as 
Class IV Separate Bikeways.

--- page 128 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 8 of 33 
 
 
 
 
• 
Class III Bikeway (Bicycle Routes/Bicycle Boulevards) are designated by signs or pavement 
markings for shared use with pedestrians or motor vehicles but have no separated bicycle 
right-of-way or lane striping. Bicycle routes serve either to a) provide continuity to other 
bicycle facilities, or b) designate preferred routes through high demand corridors. Bicycle 
routes are implemented on low-speed (less than 25 mph) and low-volume (less than 
3,000 vehicles/day) streets. The San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan also designates a special 
subset of Bicycle Routes which include traffic calming treatments as Bicycle Boulevards. 
There are only bicycle boulevards proposed near the Project site. 
 
• 
Class IV Bikeway, also known as “cycle tracks” or “protected bike lanes,” provide a right-
of-way designated exclusively for bicycle travel within a roadway and which are protected 
from other vehicle traffic with devices, including, but not limited to, grade separation, 
flexible posts, inflexible physical barriers, or parked cars.

--- page 129 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 9 of 33 
 
 
 
 
Current bicycle facilities near the Project Site include Class III bike routes on Palm Avenue and 
Alameda de Las Pulgas and a short Class II bike lane on El Camino Real under the SR-92 overpass. 
However, the City of San Mateo has proposed a few nearby Class I bike paths, Class II bike lanes, 
and Class III bike boulevards within the San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan updated in 2020.  
As shown in Figure 2, a Class I shared path has been proposed to connect Bovet Road to O’Farrell 
Street under State Route 92. From O’Farrell Street to West 20th Avenue, the proposed facility is a 
Class III bicycle boulevard that would connect on the western edge of the Project Site. The landing 
points for the bridge are proposed and further feasibility studies would need to be conducted. A 
Class II bike lane is proposed on West 20th Avenue between El Camino Real and Alameda de Las 
Pulgas.

--- page 130 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straƞord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
Project Site
Existing Bike Route
Existing Bike Lane
Shared Use Path
Proposed Bike Boulevard
Proposed Bike Lane
Proposed Buffered Bike Lane 
Proposed Separated Bike Lane
Proposed Shared Use Path
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Existing & Proposed Bicycle Facilities
Figure 2

--- page 131 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 11 of 33 
 
 
Existing Transit Service  
Table 1 presents the existing transit service providers and routes that provide service near the 
Project Site. SamTrans is the primary regional and local transit provider within San Mateo County, 
serving all rail stations within the County and major transit transfer points for Santa Clara, 
Alameda, and San Francisco counties. Many service operators are running reduced schedules due 
to COVID-19. The schedule information below reflects pre-COVID-19 timetables, which we 
anticipate will resume once emergency health orders are lifted. 
Table 1 Existing Transit Service 
Route 
Weekday 
Headway 
Weekend 
Headway 
Hours of 
Operation 
Closest 
Stop(s) to 
Project Site 
Key Destinations Served 
by Route 
Samtrans 295 
120 
- 
Weekday 
only 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas 
and West 
20th Avenue 
San Mateo and Hillsdale 
Caltrain Stations; 
Redwood City Transit 
Center 
Samtrans 250 
60 
60 
All Day 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas 
and West 
20th Avenue 
San Mateo and Hillsdale 
Caltrain Stations; College 
of San Mateo 
Samtrans 294 
60 
60 
All Day 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas 
and West 
20th Avenue 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station, 
San Mateo Medical 
Center, Half Moon Bay 
Samtrans 397 
60 
60 
Early AM 
hours 
El Camino 
Real and 
West 20th 
Avenue 
Palo Alto Transit Center, 
Downtown San Francisco, 
San Francisco Airport, all 
Caltrain stations in San 
Mateo

--- page 132 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 12 of 33 
 
 
Samtrans ECR 
15-20 
30 
All day 
El Camino 
Real and 
West 20th 
Avenue 
Multiple BART stations, all 
Caltrain stations in the 
city of San Mateo, Palo 
Alto Transit Center 
Caltrain 
30-60 
90 
All day 
Hayward Park 
Station, San 
Mateo 
Station 
San Francisco, San Jose 
Commute.org 
San Mateo-
Campus Drive  
60 
60 
AM and PM 
peak 
West 20th 
Avenue and 
O’Farrell 
Street  
Belmont Caltrain Station, 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station, 
San Mateo Medical 
Center, Campus Drive 
area 
Note: Samtrans ECR Rapid route runs with 15-minute frequency on El Camino Real with the nearest stop at El Camino Real 
and 17th Avenue though at the time of this report, this route was suspended  
The nearest Caltrain rail station is Hayward Park, approximately a 15 to 20-minute walk or five-
minute drive from the Project Site. The San Mateo Caltrain station is a 40-minute walk or 12-
minute drive north of the Project Site and the Hillsdale Caltrain Station is 30-minute walk or 
seven-minute drive south of the Project Site.  
The Commute.org shuttle is funded on a two-year cycle by the SMCTA-C/CAG Call for Projects 
process. Current funding is set to expire in July 2022. An update to the Call for Projects process is 
presently under study alongside the Reimagine SamTrans bus network design and Caltrain service 
changes associated with electrification. Consequently, the future of the Campus Drive shuttle is 
uncertain beyond July 2022.

--- page 133 ---
ECR
295
294
250
397
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straƞord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
Hayward 
Park StaƟon
Project Site
Caltrain Track
SamTrans Bus Route
SamTrans Bus Stop
Commute.org Bus Route
Commute.org Bus Stop
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Existing Transit Service
Figure 3

--- page 134 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 14 of 33 
 
 
Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations  
Pre-COVID-19 vehicle volumes were obtained from Streetlight Data, a big data provider that uses 
smartphone location to measure activity on the street. An aggregated average of historic volumes 
at the intersection of O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue were collected from October 1, 2019 
to November 22, 2019 for both the AM peak period (7:00-9:00 AM) and PM peak period (4:00-
6:00 PM). The existing lane configuration and traffic volumes for this intersection is shown in 
Figure 4. Additional information on the Streetlight Data is found in Appendix A and raw 
Streetlight Data in Appendix B.

--- page 135 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Figure 4
Existing Vehicle Volumes
ACF
AF
ACF
24 (22)
296 (339)
82 (9)
9 (34)
5 (63)
89 (31)
530 (201)
21 (2 )
W 20th Ave
O’Farrell St
Driveway
AF
8 (0)
3 (6)
AM (PM)
vehicles/hour
Peak Hour Intersection 
Turning- Movement Counts
AAF

--- page 136 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 16 of 33 
 
 
Existing Intersection Level of Service  
Only the intersection of O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue was identified for study as part of 
this TIA. As of August 4, 2020, when the developer submitted its Senate Bill 330 application, the 
City of San Mateo did not have a LOS standard for unsignalized intersections as specified in the 
2030 General Plan, thus, this analysis was conducted in accordance with the new TIA Guidelines 
for informational purposes only. 
The San Mateo General Plan through the TIA Guidelines, requires the City to maintain a Level of 
Service no worse than LOS E for unsignalized intersections. Adverse traffic operations are to be 
noted if an unsignalized intersection operating at acceptable LOS is triggered to operate at 
unacceptable levels of service (from E or better to F) or increases the average delay for an 
unsignalized intersection that is already operating at unacceptable LOS by 4 or more seconds.  
In order to evaluate these policies, the City uses the metric Level of Service (“LOS”), which is a 
qualitative description of driver comfort and convenience. Typical factors that affect motorized 
vehicle LOS include speed, travel time, traffic interruptions, and freedom to maneuver. Typical LOS 
criteria are defined in Table 2, below. 
 
Table 2. Unsignalized Intersection LOS Criteria 
Description 
LOS 
Average Control Delay (seconds 
per vehicle) 
Unsignalized Intersections 
Represents free flow. Individual users are virtually 
unaffected by others in the traffic stream. 
A 
≤ 10 
Stable flow, but the presence of other users in the 
traffic stream begins to be noticeable. 
B 
> 10 to 15 
Stable flow, but the operation of individual users 
becomes significantly affected by interactions with 
others in the traffic stream. 
C 
> 15 to 25 
Represents high-density, but stable flow. 
D 
> 25 to 35 
Represents operating conditions at or near the 
capacity level. 
E 
> 35 to 50 
Represents forced or breakdown flow. 
F 
> 50 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition, Transportation Research Board of the National Academies of Science, 2017. 
Transportation studies typically evaluate whether unsignalized intersections are functioning 
adequately and whether signalization is warranted using the peak-hour volume signal warrant 
described in the California MUTCD. At unsignalized two-way stop-controlled intersections, LOS is

--- page 137 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 17 of 33 
 
 
defined by the intersection approach that operates the “worst” rather than overall, average 
intersection LOS, which is the standard for signalized and all-way stop-controlled intersections. 
Table 3 below presents existing LOS and intersection delay in seconds for the study intersection. 
The study intersection performs at LOS C under existing conditions in both the AM and PM peak 
periods. See Appendix C for detailed LOS results.  
Table 3. Existing LOS and Delay Results 
Intersection 
Peak Period 
Existing 
Delay 
LOS 
O'Farrell Street / West 20th Avenue 
AM 
22.8 (NB) 
C  
PM 
15.0 (SB) 
C  
Notes: 
1. The study intersection is Side Street Stop Controlled. For unsignalized intersections, LOS is based on the worst 
approach.  Delay reported as seconds per vehicle. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2020 
Existing Parking Conditions 
On-street parking on roadway segments adjacent to the Project Site consists of unmetered 
parking. On the west side of O’Farrell Street, parking is limited to four hours between 8:00 AM 
and 6:00 PM Monday through Saturday. On the east side of O’Farrell Street, parking is limited to 
two hours between 8:00 AM and 6:00 PM Monday through Saturday. On West 20th Avenue, 
parking is limited to two hours between 8:00 AM and 6:00 PM with two spaces with 20-minute 
limits in front of City Hall. Some blocks on West 20th Avenue are regulated Monday through 
Saturday and some are Monday through Friday. The majority of residential streets west of 
O'Farrell are part of the residential parking permit program, meaning permitted vehicles may park 
on the street for longer than the 2-hour parking restriction. O'Farrell is not part of the permit 
program, therefore, future residents of the Project are not eligible to receive a parking permit. The 
adjacent City Hall parking garage is open to the public from 5PM-8AM Monday through Friday 
and all day on weekends. During a weekday field visit between 8:00 AM and 9:00 AM, on-street 
parking was approximately 85 percent occupied on O’Farrell Street.

--- page 138 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 18 of 33 
 
 
Existing Plus Project Conditions 
The Project proposes a 49-unit new apartment project with four stories of residential and one 
story of parking accessed via O’Farrell Street. This section presents the traffic conditions with the 
Project, including Vehicle Miles Traveled and LOS, while site access and circulation issues and 
other related topics are evaluated within the Additional Transportation Analysis sections.  
Project Trip Generation and Distribution 
Trip Generation 
Trip generation rates were determined using the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip 
Generation Manual, 10th Edition. The ITE rate for “Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise)” was used to 
determine project trip generation and the ITE rate for “Medical Office - Dental” was used to 
determine the existing trip generation for the existing dentist office. As shown in Table 4 below,  
the trips generated by the existing uses to be removed were subtracted from the project trips 
generated.   
Table 4 Project Vehicle Trip Generation 
Land Use 
Units 
ITE Code 
Vehicle Trips 
Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
 
 
 
 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Existing 
Medical-Dental 
Office Building1 
1.988 
ksf 
720 
67 
4 
1 
5 
2 
5 
7 
Proposed 
Multifamily 
Housing Mid-Rise 
49 units 
221 
223 
5 
9 
14 
11 
8 
19 
Net New Project Trips 
156 
1 
8 
9 
9 
3 
12 
Notes:  
1. Total existing building size is 3.976 ksf but at the time of application submittal only half of the total ksf was occupied 
by the Dental office, thus half of the total ksf was evaluated for trip generation. 
Sources: Fehr & Peers; ITE Trip Generation Manual, 10th Edition.  Calculated using the ITE rate for peak hour of adjacent 
street traffic. 
 
Trip Distribution 
Trips generated by the Project were distributed through the study intersection of O’Farrell Street 
and West 20th Avenue based on the existing travel patterns on the surrounding roadway system

--- page 139 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 19 of 33 
 
 
and the locations of complementary land uses. The proposed residential use would typically 
generate outbound trips in the morning to employment areas and inbound trips in the evening 
from employment areas. During the AM peak period, 11 percent of Project trips are estimated to 
enter the site and 89 percent are estimated to exit the site. During the PM peak period, 75 percent 
of Project trips are estimated to enter the site and 25 percent exit the site.  
The peak-hour trips generated by the existing and proposed uses were assigned to the roadway 
network based on the directions of approach and departure, the roadway network connections, 
the location of freeway on/off ramps, and trip distribution assignments used in the Concar 
Passages Mixed-Use Development3 analysis located one-mile from the Project site. A 60/40 split 
was applied for the trip distribution at the study intersection with 60 percent of trips traveling on 
West 20th Avenue to/from El Camino Real and 40 percent of trips traveling on West 20th Avenue 
to/from Alameda de las Pulgas. The trips generated by the existing uses to be removed were 
subtracted from the roadway network prior to assigning project trips. Figure 5 shows the net 
project trip assignment and project trips at the study intersection.  
 
3 Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., Concar Passage Mixed-Use Development Draft Transportation 
Impact Analysis, February 10, 2020, p. 39.

--- page 140 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Trip Distribution and Project Trips
AM (PM)
vehicles/hour
Peak Hour Intersection 
Turning- Movement Counts
AAF
Figure 5
40%
60%
A
AF
F
0 (4)
3 (1)
5 (2)
1 (5)
W 20th Ave
O’Farrell St
Driveway

--- page 141 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 21 of 33 
 
Plus Project VMT 
The purpose of this section is to introduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and evaluate whether the 
Project fulfills the screening criteria presented in the TIA Guidelines. VMT is a measurement of the 
amount and distance that a person drives, accounting for the number of passengers within a 
vehicle. Many interdependent factors affect the amount and distance a person might drive. In 
particular, the type of built environment affects how many places a person can access within a 
given distance, time, and cost, using different ways of travel (e.g., private vehicle, public transit, 
bicycling, walking, etc.). Typically, low-density development located at great distances from other 
land uses and in areas with few alternatives to the private vehicle provides less access than a 
location with high density, mix of land uses, and numerous ways of travel. Therefore, low-density 
development typically generates more VMT per capita compared to a similarly sized development 
located in urban areas. In general, higher VMT areas are associated with more air pollution, 
including greenhouse gas emissions, and energy usage than lower VMT areas. VMT is calculated 
by multiplying the number of trips generated by a project by the total distance of each of those 
trips.  
VMT Screening 
Although OPR provides recommendations for adopting new VMT analysis guidelines, lead 
agencies, such as the City of San Mateo, have the final say in designing their methodology to 
assess VMT and determine a relevant threshold. Lead agencies must prove that their selected 
analysis methodology aligns with SB 743’s goals to promote infill development, reduce 
greenhouse gases, and reduce VMT. Per the interim OPR guidelines in effect at the time of this 
application, a project can be exempt from a VMT analysis if the project is located within a half 
mile of a high-quality transit area. The Project is located within a half mile of the Hayward Park 
Caltrain Station (see Figure 1), which the City designates as a high-quality transit service as 
defined by OPR guidelines. In addition to being located within a half mile of a Caltrain station, the 
project must have a floor area ratio of more than 0.75, include no more than the minimum 
parking required by the City of San Mateo, be consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation 
Commissions’ (MTC) Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), and cannot replace affordable 
residential units. The Project has a floor area ratio of 1.79, is consistent with MTC’s SCS, and 
replaces an existing use of a dentist office. The project is eligible to use parking minimums 
associated with the State Density Bonus and as a result proposes to provide less parking than 
required by the Municipal code. The Project provides 64 parking spaces, which does not exceed 
the minimum parking of 92 parking spaces as required by City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code. 
Therefore, this Project would have a less than significant VMT impact due to its proximity to high-
quality transit.

--- page 142 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 22 of 33 
 
Plus Project Vehicle Volumes and Level of Service 
Plus project trips were added to the existing volumes to create existing plus project volumes, 
shown in Figure 6. Table 5 below presents existing plus project LOS and intersection delay in 
seconds for the study intersection. The study intersection continues to perform at LOS C under 
existing plus project conditions in both the AM and PM peak periods. Project trips result in very 
minor increases to delay.   
Table 5. Plus Project LOS and Delay Results 
Intersection 
Peak Period 
Existing 
Existing Plus Project 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
O'Farrell Street / West 20th Avenue 
AM 
22.8 (NB) 
C  
23.0 (NB) 
C  
PM 
15.0 (SB) 
C  
15.3 (SB) 
C  
Notes: 
1. The study intersection is Side Street Stop Controlled. For unsignalized intersections, LOS is based on the worst 
approach.  Delay reported as seconds per vehicle. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2020 
The San Mateo TIA Guidelines4 indicates that “unsignalized intersections should maintain a Level 
of Service no worse than LOS E.” For unsignalized study intersections, an adverse traffic 
operations issue is identified if the addition of the traffic generated from the proposed project 
results in any one of the following:  
• 
Triggers an intersection operating at acceptable LOS to operate at unacceptable levels of 
service (from E or better to F). 
• 
Increases the average delay for an unsignalized study intersection that is already 
operating at unacceptable LOS by 4.0 seconds or more. 
As the Project-generated traffic will not trigger either of these thresholds, the Project will not 
cause adverse traffic impacts.  
 
 
 
4 The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 2020 that freezes codes and policies in 
effect of its submitted date. At the time of application, the City had adopted the State’s Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis.

--- page 143 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Figure 6
Existing Plus Project Vehicle Volumes
ACF
AF
ACF
24 (26)
296 (339)
82 (9)
12 (35)
10 (65)
90 (36)
530 (201)
21 (2 )
W 20th Ave
O’Farrell St
Driveway
AF
8 (0)
3 (6)
AM (PM)
vehicles/hour
Peak Hour Intersection 
Turning- Movement Counts
AAF

--- page 144 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 24 of 33 
 
Cumulative Conditions 
Cumulative Roadway Network and Traffic Volumes 
Cumulative scenarios were analyzed for 2040, 20 years in the future based on the San Mateo TIA 
Guidelines5. Based on input from the City of San Mateo, there are no major roadway changes or 
development projects planned near the proposed project site that would affect traffic volumes on 
O’Farrell Street or West 20th Avenue. To account for Citywide growth and general changes in 
travel patterns over the course of 20 years, a simple growth rate was applied to through volumes 
on West 20th Avenue. A growth rate of one percent per year was applied to existing PM peak hour 
volumes and one and a half percent per year for AM peak hour volumes6. Since O’Farrell Street 
and the driveway to the Elks Lodge are minor streets and would not provide new connections for 
Citywide growth, only eastbound and westbound through volumes on West 20th Avenue were 
increased in the cumulative scenarios. 
Cumulative Intersection Level of Service 
Table 6 below presents cumulative (2040) and cumulative (2040) plus project LOS and 
intersection delay in seconds for the study intersection. The study intersection performs at 
acceptable LOS C in the PM peak period and at acceptable LOS D in the AM peak period under 
cumulative conditions. As the Project-generated traffic will not trigger either of the thresholds 
discussed in the TIA Guidelines, the Project will not cause adverse traffic impacts in cumulative 
conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 2020 that freezes codes and policies in 
effect of its submitted date. At the time of application, the City had adopted the State’s Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis. 
6 Growth rates were developed based on the change in volumes on the adjacent major streets (El Camino 
Real and Alameda de las Pulgas) between the 2015 and 2040 C/CAG model scenarios.

--- page 145 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 25 of 33 
 
 
Table 6: Cumulative Level of Service 
Intersection 
Peak 
Period 
Existing 
Existing Plus Project 
Cumulative (2040) 
Cumulative 
Plus Project 
(2040) 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
O'Farrell 
Street / West 
20th Avenue 
AM 
22.8 
C (NB) 
23.0 
C (NB) 
33.1 
D (NB) 
33.5 
D (NB) 
PM 
15.0 
C (SB) 
15.3 
C (SB) 
17.3 
C (SB) 
17.7 
C (SB) 
Notes: 
1. The study intersection is Side Street Stop Controlled. For unsignalized intersections, LOS is based on the worst 
approach.  Delay reported as seconds per vehicle. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2020

--- page 146 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Figure 7
Cumulative (2040) Vehicle Volumes
ACF
AF
ACF
24 (22)
385 (407)
82 (9)
9 (34)
5 (63)
89 (31)
689 (241)
21 (2)
W 20th Ave
O’Farrell St
Driveway
AF
8 (0)
3 (6)
AM (PM)
vehicles/hour
Peak Hour Intersection 
Turning- Movement Counts
AAF

--- page 147 ---
Chukker Ct
18th Ave
Gymkhana Rd
Elkhorn Ct
16th Ave
La Salle Dr
Mc Aker Ct
O'Farrell St
Aragon Blvd
Pioneer Ct
E 21st Ave
Lodato Ave
Hacienda St
Ivy St
Rhus St
Quince St
Harvard Rd
Caribbean Wy
17th Ave
E 20th Ave
Jasmine St
Kalmia St
Locust St
19th Ave
Flores St
24th Ave
Isabelle Ave
Yew St
Seville Wy
Leslie St
Gum St
Alameda de Las Pulgas
El Camino Real
Palm Ave
S Delaware St
El Camino Real
Hobart Ave
Tilia St
Spuraway Dr
Bo
ve
t R
d
Maple St
Nadina St
Oak St
Avila Rd
23rd Ave
Edinburgh St
22nd Ave
Borel Ave
Barneson Ave
Straord Wy
W 20th Ave
·
82
·
92
!
1
Project Site
!
Study Intersection 
Unincorporated San Mateo County
\\Fpsf03.fpainc.local\data\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics\GIS\1919OFarrell_basemap\1919OFarrell_basemap.aprx
Figure 8
Cumulative (2040) Plus Project Vehicle Volumes
ACF
AF
ACF
24 (26)
385 (407)
82 (9)
12 (35)
10 (65)
90 (36)
689 (241)
21 (2)
W 20th Ave
O’Farrell St
Driveway
AF
8 (0)
3 (6)
AM (PM)
vehicles/hour
Peak Hour Intersection 
Turning- Movement Counts
AAF

--- page 148 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 28 of 33 
 
Additional Transportation Analysis 
This section presents an analysis of other transportation issues associated with the Project site, 
including:  
• 
Impacts to vehicle, pedestrian & bicycle site access and circulation  
• 
Driveway site distance and vehicle queuing 
• 
Parking 
• 
Hazards and emergency vehicle access 
• 
Neighborhood traffic 
The analyses in this section are in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan 
Circulation Element outlined in the TIA guidelines that requires a non-CEQA local transportation 
analysis for land use projects that may have an effect on the local street system. The analysis in 
this section is based on professional judgment in accordance with the standards and methods 
employed by the traffic engineering community.   
Although operational issues are not considered CEQA impacts, they do describe traffic conditions 
that are relevant to describing the project environment. 
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation  
The Project will replace an existing driveway on O’Farrell Street and does not propose any 
geometric design changes to the surrounding roadway network. As shown in Figure 9, the Project 
driveway is 24 feet wide and meets the City of San Mateo standards to provide adequate vehicle 
access to the Project.7 The Project will add approximately 9 vehicle trips during the AM peak hour 
and approximately 12 trips during the PM peak hour. These trips will enter the Project site at the 
driveway on O’Farrell Street, and as demonstrated in the LOS analysis presented above, these 
trips will not have a substantial effect on existing or proposed roadway facilities. Garbage facilities 
will also be accessed from the curb on O’Farrell Street and would not require access to the garage 
(see Figure 9).  
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation 
The existing network of sidewalks and crosswalks in the immediate vicinity of the Project site has 
good connectivity and provides pedestrians with continuous facilities to various points of interest 
in the study area, including the Hayward Park Caltrain Station, nearby bus stops on West 20th 
 
7 Since the Project has more than four units, San Mateo Public Works considers this Project as nonresidential 
and 24’ driveway width is required under SMMC 27.64.025(3)

--- page 149 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 29 of 33 
 
Avenue, Alameda de las Pulgas and El Camino Real. Pedestrian access to the Project’s building 
would be provided to existing sidewalks on O’Farrell Street via a central staircase and ramp 
adjacent to the Project driveway. Sidewalks along O’Farrell Street and West 20th Avenue are 
generally in good condition and meet ADA standards for the minimum required passable 
walkway of four feet, although sidewalks along West 20th Avenue close to El Camino Real become 
narrow with the placement of trees and utility poles.  
The Project proposes 58 bicycle parking spaces, four short-term spaces (bicycle racks) and 54 
long-term spaces (lockers). As shown in the site plan in Figure 9, short-term bicycle racks are 
proposed to be placed at street level near the main pedestrian entrance outside the public right-
of-way. The long-term parking would be located in the garage and on the first floor near the main 
entrance. Bicyclists would access the bike parking in the garage through the vehicle driveway or 
by walking their bike up the stairs or ramp to the first level storage room. There are no other 
proposed bicycle facility changes, thus the Project would not disrupt existing bicycle facilities in 
the City. 
A Class I shared path has been proposed to connect Bovet Road to O’Farrell Street under State 
Route 92 as part of the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle Master Plan. While further study is still 
required to confirm bridge landings, this proposed shared path would be directly adjacent to the 
proposed Project, providing an additional bicycle and pedestrian connection to the residential 
neighborhood and commercial amenities on the north side of State Route 92. This Project, if built 
in the future, would substantially improve accessibility for people walking and bicycling and 
would reduce the need for driving trips for Project residents to the retail, school, and other 
amenities north of State Route 92. The proposed Project does not present a conflict with this 
project and would therefore not adversely affect existing or proposed pedestrian and bicycle 
facilities.  
Transit Access and Circulation 
Neither public transit conditions nor public transit access are expected to change with the Project. 
The Project would generate a small number of peak hour transit trips, likely associated with 
commutes, which could be accommodated by existing nearby transit routes and services 
including SamTrans and Caltrain. Transit users would access existing transit service via West 20th 
Avenue to El Camino Real or Alameda de Las Pulgas. The proposed Project does not present a 
conflict to existing or proposed transit facilities and due to the small size of the project, the 
number of new transit trips would have a negligible effect transit capacity.

--- page 150 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 30 of 33 
 
Driveway Sight Distance 
Due to the location of the driveway at the end of a cul-de-sac with clear sight lines to O’Farrell 
Street and a lack of on-street parking or other obstructions adjacent to the driveway, the Project’s 
proposed driveway will have an adequate sight distance.  
Vehicle Queuing  
There is adequate space within the parking garage to account for any outbound vehicle queuing 
at the Project driveway. During the PM peak hour there will be 11 total inbound vehicles 
generated by the Project, which represents a vehicle trip every five to six minutes. Given the low 
volumes added by the Project site and the lack of a gate or other control that would cause 
vehicles to wait at the driveway entrance, vehicle queues would not form during typical peak 
conditions. 
Parking Conditions 
The Project proposes one underground parking garage that would be accessed on O’Farrell 
Street. The Project proposes a total of 64 vehicle parking spaces, which represents a parking ratio 
of approximately 1.3 vehicles per residential unit. Although the Municipal Code requires 1.5-2 
units per multi-family dwelling unit, the State Density Bonus permits a reduced parking ratio of 
0.5 spaces/bedroom because the Project is within a half mile of public transit, requiring the 
Project to have 34 spaces. The applicant is voluntarily providing 30 parking spaces over the 
Density Bonus requirement but still fewer than required by the Municipal Code. Three of the 
spaces are proposed as ADA accessible. Given the location within a high-quality transit area, the 
proposed parking supply will be adequate for the Project and parking conditions on surrounding 
streets are not expected to change. 
A total of three short-term and 54 long-term bicycle parking spaces are required. The proposed 
Project will fulfill these requirements by providing four short-term and 54 long-term bicycle 
parking spaces.  
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access 
Several factors determine whether a project has sufficient access for emergency vehicles, 
including the number of access points, width of access points, and width of internal roadways. The 
Project would not change emergency vehicle access to the site as emergency vehicles would 
access the Project from the existing access point on O’Farrell Street. The O’Farrell Street driveway 
would be 24 feet wide, providing enough space for emergency vehicles to enter the driveway, if 
needed. The Project does not propose altering the existing roadway network and does not 
propose new vehicular roadways that would create hazards or impede emergency vehicle access.

--- page 151 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 31 of 33 
 
Neighborhood Traffic 
The most direct path for project-generated vehicles to access the Project site is via West 20th 
Avenue to El Camino Real or Alameda de las Pulgas and there are not any neighborhood streets 
that provide direct and convenient connections to key destinations. The cumulative and 
cumulative plus project small increase in vehicle volumes does not warrant a signal at the study 
intersection. Due to the relatively low number of new Project-generated vehicles (less than 15 in 
the AM and PM peak hours, or one every four minutes) and the lack of nearby neighborhood 
streets that connect directly to destinations, this Project will have a minimal effect on nearby 
neighborhood streets. See Appendix D for the detailed signal warrant analysis.

--- page 152 ---
Site Circulation and Access
Figure 9
N:\Projects\2020_Projects\SF20-1129_1919OFarrellTIA\Graphics
24.0’
Vehicle Access
Pedestrian Access
Bicycle Access
Short Term Bike Parking
Long Term Bike Parking
Long Term Bike Parking within Parking Garage (not pictured)
Trash 
access

--- page 153 ---
Somer Smith 
April 12, 2021 
Page 33 of 33 
 
Conclusion 
The proposed project would not cause the study intersection to exceed the level of service 
standard as specified in the City’s Circulation Element of the 2030 General Plan, i.e. the acceptable 
level of service standards that were in place on August 4, 2020, at the time of the Senate Bill 330 
Application.8 The proposed Project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, pedestrian, or 
transit circulation, or hazards and emergency access. VMT is screened out because of the Project’s 
proximity to high-quality transit. The Project presents no adverse LOS effects or site circulation 
issues. The Project does not include features that would disrupt these facilities nor generate a 
substantial number of people that would worsen or create a new impact. The Project meets the 
City’s design standards.  
 
8 The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application on August 4, 2020 that freezes codes and policies in 
effect of its submitted date. At the time of application, the City had adopted the State’s Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) Updates to the CEQA Guidelines as the interim TIA Guidelines for VMT analysis.

--- page 154 ---
FEHR*¥ PEERS

Appendix A Streetlight Memo



--- page 155 ---
345 California Street | Suite 450 | San Francisco, CA 94104 | (415) 348-0300 | Fax (415) 773-1790   
www.fehrandpeers.com 
Memorandum 
 
Date: December 28, 2020 
To: Somer Smith, City of San Mateo 
From: Ashley Hong and Taylor McAdam, Fehr & Peers 
Subject: 1919 O’Farrell Street Streetlight Methodology 
SF20-1129 
Purpose 
As presented in the 1919 O’Farrell Street Transportation Impact Analysis Scope of Work, Fehr & 
Peers collected data at one study intersection, O’Farrell Street and W 20th Avenue. Due to changes 
in travel behavior and transportation resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, the standard 
approach of collecting new traffic counts was not an option. Based on meetings with the San 
Mateo City staff, Fehr & Peers’ proposed using StreetLight Data’s turning movement volume 
estimates as an alternative source of pre-COVID count data. This memo describes some 
considerations for using StreetLight Data and briefly summarizes the results.  
StreetLight Data Considerations 
There are two primary concerns many jurisdictions have with using StreetLight or other big data 
providers – data privacy and data biases. StreetLight Data attempts to address both concerns at 
several points in the data processing workflow. All mobile device location data provided to 
StreetLight has been de-identified (personally identifiable information removed) by data 
suppliers. StreetLight runs the data through several rounds of processing to take raw device 
traces and produce individual trips that follow roadways. Quality assurance tests ensure that 
traces with erratic or unlikely behavior are filtered out of the final data set, and that the data are 
appropriately normalized to the population. To improve accuracy of the mobile data, StreetLight 
adds “contextual” data sets such as road networks, information like speed limits and directionality, 
land use data, parcel data, and census data. 
When users such as Fehr & Peers query StreetLight’s dataset, trips are aggregated and averaged 
over one or more months. In the case of estimating intersection turning movement counts,

--- page 156 ---
Somer Smith 
December 28, 2020 
Page 2 of 3  
StreetLight aggregates trips traveling from each intersection leg to every other leg. Figure 1 
diagrams the Streetlight intersection turning movement query.  
Figure 1: StreetLight Intersection Turning Movement Query – O’Farrell Street and 
W 20th Avenue 
 
Source: StreetLight Data, 2020 
StreetLight’s turning movement estimates are presented as vehicle turning movement volumes 
through the intersection, and starting or ending locations of these trips are not captured. 
Additionally, a query that returns too few trips (raising concerns of both statistical validity and 
privacy) is flagged for review before being delivered to users. Fehr & Peers’ independent 
validation of StreetLight’s intersection turning movement volume estimates1 found that 
 
1 More information about the validation methodology for StreetLight data can be found in the white paper  
here: https://www.fehrandpeers.com/transformative-data-collection-solution/, May 2020.

--- page 157 ---
Somer Smith 
December 28, 2020 
Page 3 of 3  
StreetLight estimates are a reasonable replacement for traditional traffic counts. In 88 percent of 
locations tested, manual counts fell within the unadjusted StreetLight estimates confidence 
intervals. This validation effort found two biases in StreetLight’s raw vehicle estimates that can be 
corrected with adjustments: (1) estimates for through movements are typically higher than for left 
and right turns and (2) estimates are higher in areas with higher device concentration (typically 
more urban contexts with higher pedestrian, bicycle, or transit use). 
StreetLight Data Methodology 
After discussion about the overestimate of through movements produced by the StreetLight 
Volume estimates, StreetLight staff recommended filtering out trips with a circuity greater than 
2.0 to correct this overestimate. Circuity occurs when StreetLight’s trip algorithm assigns the same 
vehicle through the intersection more than once in a short period of time, counting the same 
vehicle as more than one trip. This is most common at freeway interchanges, or at intersections 
near destinations such as gas stations, drive-throughs, or with high pass-by rates. Filtering the 
percentage of trips with a circuity greater than 2.0 is key to reducing the instances of locations 
where StreetLight volume estimates are higher than counts. This method was used on StreetLight 
data collected for this project.  
Additional Assumptions 
An average Tuesday through Thursday aggregated volume for the dates between September 2, 
2019 and November 22, 2019, excluding October 31, 2019 (Halloween) to avoid holiday 
discrepancies, were analyzed. Data on weekdays Tuesday-Thursday were used to reflect average 
traffic patterns. The sample size included 5,000 device counts and approximately 23,000 trips.  
StreetLight volumes for the AM peak hour (7AM-8AM) were compared with volumes from the 
same time window collected in 2017 and provided by the City. The east-bound volumes on W 20th 
Avenue were approximately 100 vehicles lower in StreetLight counts than they were in Spring 
2017 and west-bound volumes on W 20th Avenue were approximately 100 vehicles higher in the 
Streetlight counts than they were in Spring 2017. This difference in volumes may be partially due 
to changes in the land uses or travel patterns in the intervening years. More likely, however, the 
difference can be attributed to normal variation in traffic patterns. The Streetlight volumes 
represent a more accurate approximation of recent traffic conditions on W 20th Avenue by 
accounting for variation over many months and weeks rather than a single day’s counts. 
StreetLight Volumes for the PM peak hour (5PM-6PM) were not compared to historic counts since 
counts collected in 2017 captured afternoon school peak period rather than PM peak period.

--- page 158 ---
FEHR*¥ PEERS

Appendix B Streetlight Data



--- page 159 ---
Average of Adjusted Volumes
Time of Day
Driveway_Sleg OFarrell_Nleg W20th_Eleg
W20th_WLeg
00: All Day (12am‐12am)
148.38225
620.1964545
2056.14825
1545.630667
01: 12am (12am‐1am)
2.66675
9.875
6.38875
02: 1am (1am‐2am)
2
5.4
5.75
3
03: 2am (2am‐3am)
3.166666667
2
04: 3am (3am‐4am)
1
2.375
2.611
05: 4am (4am‐5am)
4.833333333
4.36
06: 5am (5am‐6am)
3.25
13.125
10.36016667
07: 6am (6am‐7am)
4.75
7.938714286
42.43090909
34.57744444
08: 7am (7am‐8am)
66.423
55.632125
294.1893636
194.9360909
09: 8am (8am‐9am)
10.28571429
54.24144444
129.5608182
95.0865
10: 9am (9am‐10am)
14.125
64.235
103.0168182
63.82433333
11: 10am (10am‐11am)
9.25
42.59344444
114.0953333
61.04736364
12: 11am (11am‐12noon)
9.5
58.21366667
97.75666667
75.52545455
13: 12pm (12noon‐1pm)
12
55.02877778
143.9716
89.298
14: 1pm (1pm‐2pm)
10.66666667
63.19088889
140.3640909
85.48325
15: 2pm (2pm‐3pm)
11
62.54955556
251.6385556
169.5110909
16: 3pm (3pm‐4pm)
12.98888889
63.22577778
183.341
142.747
17: 4pm (4pm‐5pm)
9.571428571
51.34622222
198.8581
150.6760909
18: 5pm (5pm‐6pm)
15.692
61.87854545
187.8418182
161.0469091
19: 6pm (6pm‐7pm)
18.625
34.865
165.0968182
132.804
20: 7pm (7pm‐8pm)
11
27.12966667
102.6508182
66.75808333
21: 8pm (8pm‐9pm)
9.677625
30.68588889
88.22222222
57.8866
22: 9pm (9pm‐10pm)
4
15.460375
45.54372727
32.2962
23: 10pm (10pm‐11pm)
4
7.342857143
26.23911111
15.746
24: 11pm (11pm‐12am)
4.9375
11.5
6.236888889
Intersection Approach

--- page 160 ---
FEHR*¥ PEERS

Appendix C Synchro LOS Reports



--- page 161 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
12/23/2020
1919 O'Farrell Existing AM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
24
296
82
21
530
89
8
0
3
5
0
9
Future Vol, veh/h
24
296
82
21
530
89
8
0
3
5
0
9
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
26
322
89
23
576
97
9
0
3
5
0
10
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
678
0
0
416
0
0
1110
1148
382
1106
-
640
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
424
424
-
676
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
686
724
-
430
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
914
-
-
1143
-
-
187
199
665
188
0
475
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
608
587
-
443
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
438
430
-
603
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
910
-
-
1138
-
-
171
183
656
175
-
468
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
171
183
-
175
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
582
562
-
424
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
411
414
-
572
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.3
22.8
17.7
HCM LOS
C
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
214
910
-
-
1138
-
-
175
468
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.056 0.029
-
-
0.02
-
- 0.031 0.021
HCM Control Delay (s)
22.8
9.1
0
-
8.2
0
-
26.2
12.9
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
D
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.2
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.1
0.1

--- page 162 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
12/23/2020
1919 O'Farrell Existing PM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
22
339
9
2
201
31
0
0
6
63
0
34
Future Vol, veh/h
22
339
9
2
201
31
0
0
6
63
0
34
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
24
368
10
2
218
34
0
0
7
68
0
37
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
257
0
0
383
0
0
694
687
388
679
-
250
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
426
426
-
244
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
268
261
-
435
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1308
-
-
1175
-
-
357
370
660
366
0
789
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
606
586
-
760
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
738
692
-
600
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1302
-
-
1169
-
-
329
357
651
350
-
778
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
329
357
-
350
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
589
570
-
739
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
695
687
-
575
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.1
10.6
15
HCM LOS
B
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
651
1302
-
-
1169
-
-
350
778
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.01 0.018
-
- 0.002
-
- 0.196 0.048
HCM Control Delay (s)
10.6
7.8
0
-
8.1
0
-
17.8
9.9
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
C
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
0.1
-
-
0
-
-
0.7
0.1

--- page 163 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
12/30/2020
1919 O'Farrell Existing Plus Project AM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
24
296
82
21
530
90
8
0
3
10
0
12
Future Vol, veh/h
24
296
82
21
530
90
8
0
3
10
0
12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
26
322
89
23
576
98
9
0
3
11
0
13
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
679
0
0
416
0
0
1112
1149
382
1106
-
640
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
424
424
-
676
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
688
725
-
430
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
913
-
-
1143
-
-
186
198
665
188
0
475
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
608
587
-
443
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
436
430
-
603
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
909
-
-
1138
-
-
169
182
656
175
-
468
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
169
182
-
175
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
582
562
-
424
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
406
414
-
572
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.3
23
19.3
HCM LOS
C
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
212
909
-
-
1138
-
-
175
468
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.056 0.029
-
-
0.02
-
- 0.062 0.028
HCM Control Delay (s)
23
9.1
0
-
8.2
0
-
26.9
12.9
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
D
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.2
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.2
0.1

--- page 164 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
12/30/2020
1919 O'Farrell Existing Plus Project PM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
26
339
9
2
201
36
0
0
6
65
0
35
Future Vol, veh/h
26
339
9
2
201
36
0
0
6
65
0
35
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
28
368
10
2
218
39
0
0
7
71
0
38
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
262
0
0
383
0
0
705
700
388
690
-
253
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
434
434
-
247
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
271
266
-
443
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1302
-
-
1175
-
-
351
363
660
359
0
786
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
600
581
-
757
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
735
689
-
594
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1296
-
-
1169
-
-
322
349
651
342
-
775
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
322
349
-
342
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
581
562
-
733
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
691
684
-
567
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.1
10.6
15.3
HCM LOS
B
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
651
1296
-
-
1169
-
-
342
775
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.01 0.022
-
- 0.002
-
- 0.207 0.049
HCM Control Delay (s)
10.6
7.8
0
-
8.1
0
-
18.2
9.9
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
C
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
0.1
-
-
0
-
-
0.8
0.2

--- page 165 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
01/18/2021
1919 O'Farrell Cumulative 2040 No Project AM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
24
385
82
21
689
89
8
0
3
5
0
9
Future Vol, veh/h
24
385
82
21
689
89
8
0
3
5
0
9
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
26
418
89
23
749
97
9
0
3
5
0
10
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
851
0
0
512
0
0
1379
1417
478
1375
-
813
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
520
520
-
849
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
859
897
-
526
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
788
-
-
1053
-
-
122
137
587
123
0
378
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
539
532
-
356
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
351
358
-
535
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
784
-
-
1048
-
-
109
124
579
113
-
373
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
109
124
-
113
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
511
504
-
337
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
324
341
-
502
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.2
33.1
23.3
HCM LOS
D
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
140
784
-
-
1048
-
-
113
373
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.085 0.033
-
- 0.022
-
- 0.048 0.026
HCM Control Delay (s)
33.1
9.8
0
-
8.5
0
-
38.5
14.9
HCM Lane LOS
D
A
A
-
A
A
-
E
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.1
0.1

--- page 166 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
01/18/2021
1919 O'Farrell Cumulative 2040 No Project PM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
22
407
9
2
241
31
0
0
6
63
0
34
Future Vol, veh/h
22
407
9
2
241
31
0
0
6
63
0
34
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
24
442
10
2
262
34
0
0
7
68
0
37
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
301
0
0
457
0
0
812
805
462
797
-
294
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
500
500
-
288
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
312
305
-
509
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1260
-
-
1104
-
-
298
316
600
305
0
745
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
553
543
-
720
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
699
662
-
547
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1254
-
-
1099
-
-
273
304
591
291
-
734
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
273
304
-
291
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
536
526
-
698
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
656
657
-
522
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.4
0.1
11.2
17.3
HCM LOS
B
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
591
1254
-
-
1099
-
-
291
734
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.011 0.019
-
- 0.002
-
- 0.235
0.05
HCM Control Delay (s)
11.2
7.9
0
-
8.3
0
-
21.1
10.2
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
C
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
0.1
-
-
0
-
-
0.9
0.2

--- page 167 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
01/18/2021
1919 O'Farrell Cumulative 2040 Plus Project AM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
24
385
82
21
689
90
8
0
3
10
0
12
Future Vol, veh/h
24
385
82
21
689
90
8
0
3
10
0
12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
26
418
89
23
749
98
9
0
3
11
0
13
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
852
0
0
512
0
0
1381
1418
478
1375
-
813
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
520
520
-
849
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
861
898
-
526
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
787
-
-
1053
-
-
121
137
587
123
0
378
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
539
532
-
356
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
350
358
-
535
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
783
-
-
1048
-
-
107
124
579
113
-
373
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
107
124
-
113
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
511
504
-
337
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
320
341
-
502
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.2
33.5
26.5
HCM LOS
D
D
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
138
783
-
-
1048
-
-
113
373
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.087 0.033
-
- 0.022
-
- 0.096 0.035
HCM Control Delay (s)
33.5
9.8
0
-
8.5
0
-
40.2
15
HCM Lane LOS
D
A
A
-
A
A
-
E
C
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.3
0.1

--- page 168 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
1: Driveway/O'Farrell St & W 20th Ave
01/18/2021
1919 O'Farrell Cumulative 2040 Plus Project PM
Synchro 10 Report
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.5
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
26
407
9
2
241
36
0
0
6
65
0
35
Future Vol, veh/h
26
407
9
2
241
36
0
0
6
65
0
35
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
5
0
5
5
0
5
10
0
10
10
0
10
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
140
-
0
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
28
442
10
2
262
39
0
0
7
71
0
38
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
306
0
0
457
0
0
823
818
462
808
-
297
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
508
508
-
291
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
315
310
-
517
-
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
-
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518
- 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1255
-
-
1104
-
-
292
311
600
299
0
742
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
547
539
-
717
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
696
659
-
541
0
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1249
-
-
1099
-
-
266
298
591
284
-
731
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
266
298
-
284
-
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
528
520
-
692
-
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
652
654
-
514
-
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.5
0.1
11.2
17.7
HCM LOS
B
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1 SBLn2
Capacity (veh/h)
591
1249
-
-
1099
-
-
284
731
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.011 0.023
-
- 0.002
-
- 0.249 0.052
HCM Control Delay (s)
11.2
7.9
0
-
8.3
0
-
21.8
10.2
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
C
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
0.1
-
-
0
-
-
1
0.2

--- page 169 ---
FEHR*¥ PEERS

Appendix D Signal Warrants



--- page 170 ---
Project
1919 O'Farrell
Major Street
W 20th Ave
Scenario
2040 Plus Project
Minor Street
O'Farrell St
Peak Hour
AM
Turn Movement Volumes
Major Street Direction
NB
SB
EB 
WB
Left
8
10
31
27
North/South
Through
385
689
X
East/West
Right
3
12
107
117
Total
11
22
523
833
1
1
NO
Number of Approach Lanes
* Note:   Traffic Volume for Major Street is Total Volume of Both Approches.
             Traffic Volume for Minor Street is the Volume of High Volume Approach.
Traffic Volume (VPH) *
1,356
22
Major Street
Minor Street
Warrant Met
W 20th Ave
O'Farrell St
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
1300
1400
1500
1600
1700
1800
Minor Street Higher Volume Approach - VPH
Major Street - Total of Both Approaches - Vehicle Per Hour (VPH)
Warrant 3B, Peak Hour
* Note:   150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor-street 
approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower
threshold volume for a minor-street approach with one lane.
Source: California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Caltrans, 2014
150*
100*
2 or More Lanes & 2 or More Lanes
1 Lane & 1 Lane
2 or More Lanes & 1 Lane

--- page 171 ---
Project
1919 O'Farrell
Major Street
W 20th Ave
Scenario
2040 Plus Project
Minor Street
O'Farrell St
Peak Hour
PM
Turn Movement Volumes
Major Street Direction
NB
SB
EB 
WB
Left
65
30
2
North/South
Through
407
241
X
East/West
Right
6
35
11
42
Total
6
100
448
285
1
1
NO
Number of Approach Lanes
* Note:   Traffic Volume for Major Street is Total Volume of Both Approches.
             Traffic Volume for Minor Street is the Volume of High Volume Approach.
Traffic Volume (VPH) *
733
100
Major Street
Minor Street
Warrant Met
W 20th Ave
O'Farrell St
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
1300
1400
1500
1600
1700
1800
Minor Street Higher Volume Approach - VPH
Major Street - Total of Both Approaches - Vehicle Per Hour (VPH)
Warrant 3B, Peak Hour
* Note:   150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor-street 
approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower
threshold volume for a minor-street approach with one lane.
Source: California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Caltrans, 2014
150*
100*
2 or More Lanes & 2 or More Lanes
1 Lane & 1 Lane
2 or More Lanes & 1 Lane

--- page 172 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-64 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
Industrial 
Manufacturing 
Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land 
use: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
Yes No 
If yes, please explain: 
      
 
 
0.71 Acres (gross), 0.69 Acres (net)
49
49-Unit new apartment project with 4 stories of residential above grade over 1 story of parking below grade.

--- page 173 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-65 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
Yes No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
BE 1: All new development: The project does not 
have natural gas connections, and does not have 
any natural gas appliances or other equipment 
installed 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
The project has gas central hot
water, barbeque and fire pit
Solar Size: 27.5 kW
27.5 kW potential
This is the same system and
potential as stated in RE 2 above.

--- page 174 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-66 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space:  The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired 
for EV chargers, consistent with state and any local 
regulations. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers? 
      
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers that are 
accessible by members of the public beyond those 
who live and/or work at the project. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public? 
      
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
10 spaces
none
Project preserves existing heritage trees
which shade an additional 16 units.
17 units.

--- page 175 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-67 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM strategies 
to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
       
Additional notes: 
      
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies consistent 
with the targets in relevant area plans and the San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
ST 7. All new development: Be located along El 
Camino Real, within one-half mile of any Caltrain 
station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas. 
Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
TDM 3) New Resident Packets 4) Multimodal Way- finding
Signage 5) TDM Communications 6) Bike Education/ Workshops
10%
10%
Please refer to attached TDM Plan
1) TDM Coordinator 2) Institutionalizing
Please refer to attached TIA report, indicating
the project is within a 1/2 mile of the Hayward
Park Caltrain Station

--- page 176 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-68 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
SW 1. All developments with multifamily units 
or nonresidential space: Provide an area of 
sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
WW 3. All new development: Include a greywater 
system. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 177 ---
TDM Plan 
April 2021 
 
 
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan 
 
 
 
     Image source:  DNA Design and Architecture
The City of San Mateo 
 23946201

--- page 178 ---


--- page 179 ---
Steer has prepared this material for The City of San Mateo. This material may only be used within the context and scope 
for which Steer has prepared it and may not be relied upon in part or whole by any third party or be used for any other 
purpose. Any person choosing to use any part of this material without the express and written permission of Steer shall be 
deemed to confirm their agreement to indemnify Steer for all loss or damage resulting therefrom. Steer has prepared this 
material using professional practices and procedures using information available to it at the time and as such any new 
information could alter the validity of the results and conclusions made. 
TDM Plan 
April 2021 
 
 
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
Prepared for: 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
The City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
   
  23946201

--- page 180 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 
Contents 
1 
Introduction .................................................................................................................... 1 
Project Description ................................................................................................................... 1 
Demographic and Travel Trends .............................................................................................. 2 
2 
Site Assessment .............................................................................................................. 5 
Geography and Road Network ................................................................................................. 5 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure ...................................................................................... 7 
Transit Services ......................................................................................................................... 8 
Nearby Destinations ................................................................................................................. 9 
Available TDM Services ............................................................................................................ 9 
3 
Project TDM Measures .................................................................................................. 11 
TDM Coordinator .................................................................................................................... 11 
Institutionalizing TDM ............................................................................................................ 12 
New Resident Packets ............................................................................................................ 12 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage ............................................................................................ 14 
TDM Communications ............................................................................................................ 14 
Bike Education/ Workshops ................................................................................................... 16 
4 
Optional TDM Strategies ............................................................................................... 17 
Parking Cash Out .................................................................................................................... 17 
Shared Vehicle Credits or Subsidies ....................................................................................... 17 
Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy .................................................................................................. 18 
Bike Share ............................................................................................................................... 19 
5 
Impacts of Project TDM Measures ................................................................................. 20 
VMT Reduction Calculations .................................................................................................. 20 
Program Impacts .................................................................................................................... 20 
6 
Monitoring ................................................................................................................... 22 
Annual Survey ......................................................................................................................... 22 
Assumptions ............................................................................................................................. 4

--- page 181 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 
 
Figures 
Figure 1. City of San Mateo Zoning Map ............................................................................................ 2 
Figure 2. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6074 ........................................... 3 
Figure 3. Inflow Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6074 .......................................................... 4 
Figure 4. A view of the project site ..................................................................................................... 6 
Figure 5. A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica ........................................................ 13 
Figure 6. Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica ......................................... 14 
 
Tables 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes ................................................................................................. 2 
Table 2. Where people living in census tract 6074 worked in 2017 ................................................... 3 
Table 3. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 20th Ave. intersection .................................... 7 
Table 4. Summary of Transit Services ................................................................................................. 8 
Table 5. Summary of Transit Services Continued ............................................................................... 9 
Table 6. Zone Public Schools for 1919 O’Farrell St. ............................................................................ 9 
Table 7. Project TDM Measures Impact Overview ........................................................................... 20 
Table 8. Individual Impacts of Project TDM Measures ..................................................................... 21 
 
Appendices 
A  
TDM ROI Calculator 
B 
1919 O’Farrell St. Site Assessment

--- page 182 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |1 
A Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan is a long-term management strategy for an 
organization or site that seeks to deliver sustainable transportation objectives. It is articulated in a 
document that is regularly reviewed by the implementing organization. It involves identifying an 
appropriate package of measures aimed at promoting sustainable travel, with an emphasis on 
reducing reliance on single occupancy car journeys and vehicle miles traveled (VMT). It can also 
assist in meeting other objectives such as increasing accessibility as well as reducing congestion, 
greenhouse gases and noise.  
This TDM Plan was produced on behalf of the City of San Mateo for the 1919 O’Farrell Street 
project site, which is a planned residential rental property owned and developed by O'Farrell 
Malex, LLC and 1919 O'Farrell Investment Group, LLC.  
Project Description 
The project site is located at 1919 O’Farrell Street in the Beresford Park neighborhood in the City 
of San Mateo within the 94403 ZIP code. The project involves the demolition of an existing one-
story office building to construct a four-story, 49-unit multi-family apartment community with 
subterranean parking. It is expected that the project will break ground in 2022.  
The site is zoned for Executive Park/High Density Multi-Family (E1-1/R4) uses. As shown in Figure 
1, the area immediately surrounding the project site, designated with a blue box, is primarily 
zoned Executive Park/High Density Multi-Family, which allows for mixed use development. The 
neighboring parcels south of the Highway 92 are zoned the same as the project site, except for 
City Hall, which is zoned as Executive Park (E1) only. The area to the southwest is primarily zoned 
Single Family (One Family Dwelling, R1B), while the areas to the southeast are predominantly 
zoned Multi-Family (R4). The parcels just east of the Executive Office/High-Density Multi-Family 
zone abutting El Camino Real are designated Regional/Community Commercial (C2). 
1 Introduction

--- page 183 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |2 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Website 
The project is located on a 0.71-acre parcel which allows a base density of 36 units. Of the 36 units, four 
are dedicated to very low-income households. The four units make of 11% of the base density, which 
allows a density bonus of 35%, or 13 additional units, under State law. Thus, there will be a total of 49 
units on the property. Each unit on the project site will be 746 to 1,556 square feet in size. Table 1 
provides additional details regarding the proposed project compared to the parcel’s current use. 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current  
Proposed 
Description 
1-story office building 
4-story multi-family residential 
building 
Square Footage 
3,967 sq. ft. of office space 
55,541 sq. ft. of living space 
Zoning Designation 
Executive Office/High Density 
Multi-Family 
Executive Office/High Density 
Multi-Family 
The project proposes a total of 64 subterranean vehicle parking spaces on-site, which is 30 spaces more 
than required. Additionally, the project will also provide infrastructure for long and short-term bicycle 
parking for residents and guests, with room for 57 bicycles across the property. The nearest Caltrain 
station, the Hayward Park Station, is located within a 0.8-mile walk of the site. 
The residential community will be managed by a team of property managers once units are available for 
rent. 
Demographic and Travel Trends 
The travel trends and insights detailed in this section are based on data associated with the project’s 
census tract (census tract 6074.00), which has a population of 5,017 people. American Communities 
Figure 1. City of San Mateo Zoning Map

--- page 184 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |3 
Survey (ACS) and Census data from 2018 indicate that those who live in this tract tend to be young 
families with children or never-married individuals who have high levels of education and household 
incomes. A majority (59%) of the households in the census tract live in multi-unit buildings and 53% are 
renters.  
Additionally, the ACS data indicates that a majority (62%) of those who live within the census tract 
commute to work by driving alone (Figure 2). The data also shows that carpool and transit are commonly 
used. The mean commute time is 31.5 minutes.  
Figure 2. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6074 
Source: ACS 2018 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers aged 16 and up) 
As shown in Table 2, residents within the census tract commute to a wide variety of locations with 
approximately 18% commuting to San Francisco, 14% commuting within the City of San Mateo, almost 7% 
commuting to Redwood City and the remaining commuting to various locations across the region.  
Table 2. Where people living in census tract 6074 worked in 2017 
Job Locations 
Count 
Share 
San Francisco, CA 
476 
18.4% 
San Mateo, CA 
355 
13.7% 
Redwood City, CA 
168 
6.5% 
San Jose, CA 
133 
5.1% 
Palo Alto, CA 
114 
4.4% 
Burlingame, CA 
93 
3.6% 
Mountain View, CA 
92 
3.6% 
Other Locations 
1,155 
44.7% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
2,586 
100% 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Inflow outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 3, depicts that about 2,493 individuals 
commute out of the area and 3,140 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. 93 individuals 
both live and work inside the same census tract.

--- page 185 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |4 
Figure 3. Inflow Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6074 
 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies

--- page 186 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |5 
A site assessment was conducted as part of the TDM Plan development process. The site assessment 
included a description of the site’s geography and road network, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, 
transit services, nearby attractions, and existing TDM services. For the complete assessment, please refer 
to the 1919 O’Farrell Street Site Assessment memo in Appendix B. Key findings from the site assessment 
are as follows:  
Geography and Road Network 
The project site is located at the end of a cul-de-sac at grade level as seen in Figure 4, which provides a 
map view. The site is surrounded by: 
• 
Highway 92 to the north 
• 
The Park 20 Apartments and SR-82 (El Camino Real)-adjacent shopping centers to the east 
• 
A single-story office building and Corte Bella condos to the south 
• 
A three-story office building, parking garage, and San Mateo City Hall to the west 
• 
Junipero Serra High School to the southwest 
 
2 Site Assessment

--- page 187 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |6 
Figure 4. A view of the project site 
 
O’Farrell Street connects to West 20th Avenue, which in turn connects the project site to South El 
Camino Real to the East, Alameda de las Pulgas to the West and Highway 92 to the North (via El 
Camino Real).  
The intersection of El Camino Real and 20th Avenue, the first major intersection coming out of the 
1919 O’Farrell Street development, sees moderate congestion throughout the day with a ‘C’ level 
of service during the AM and ‘D’ level of service during the PM rush hours. Table 3 provides details 
on the level of service for the El Camino Real and 20th Avenue intersection.

--- page 188 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |7 
Table 3. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 20th Ave. intersection 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service  
(2016 Conditions) 
 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
El Camino Real and 20th Avenue 
34.5 
C 
45.9 
D 
Source: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (October 2018) 
The site has quick access to Downtown San Mateo, which is less than two miles away. Travel times 
between the project site and Downtown San Mateo are as follows: 
• 
7 mins by car   
• 
9 mins by bike  
• 
7 mins by e-bike 
• 
18 mins by transit (ECR Bus)  
• 
28 mins by walking  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
The site’s topography, street network, and proximity to commercial centers are conducive to 
pedestrian and bicycle access. Walkscore.com gives the site an 82/100 for walking, which they classify 
as “very walkable – most errands can be accomplished on foot.”  
There are two Class III Bicycle Routes connecting with 20th Avenue near the site. The first of these is to 
the west of the project site, running along Alameda de las Pulgas from Crystal Springs Road through the 
southern limits of the City (with a small portion of Class II lanes located in the Hillsdale area to the 
south).  
The bicycle route on Alameda de las Pulgas provides access to several schools and parks, and it 
eventually connects to the Hillsdale Shopping Center and Hillsdale Caltrain Station via Class II and III 
bike facilities along Hillsdale Boulevard. To access Downtown using Palm Avenue, bicyclists must cross 
El Camino Real and ride approximately half a mile before reaching a bike lane north of South 
Boulevard. The Palm Avenue route offers no protected bikeways to connect between the site and the 
Hayward Park Caltrain Station. 
Due to a mixture of traffic speed, volume, and presence of on-street vehicular parking, Alameda de las 
Pulgas, Palm Avenue, and 20th Avenue are all rated as ‘high-stress’ streets by the April 2020 San Mateo 
Bicycle Master Plan. ‘High-stress’ streets are defined as roads which would be uncomfortable or 
unappealing to all cyclists other than those with high levels of experience and risk tolerance or those 
traveling by e-bike.  
In terms of nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand lockers located at nearby 
Caltrain Stations as well as the Hillsdale Shopping Center and its surrounding area. BikeLink allows 
bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased online 
or at nearby vendors. There are four lockers at the nearest Caltrain Station (Hayward Park), 24 at the 
Downtown station, and 28 around the Hillsdale Shopping Center. Additionally, four free-to-use public 
bike repair stations are located within 1.5 miles of the project site. These stations are located at San 
Mateo City Hall, the San Mateo Main Library, Paddock Park, and the downtown San Mateo Caltrain 
station.

--- page 189 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
April 2021 |8 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020 and serves as a 
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming 
years. The Plan includes three high-priority recommendations relevant to the 1919 O’Farrell Street 
Project site: 
•
20th Avenue is slated for a Class II bike lane between Alameda de las Pulgas and El Camino Real and
a Class III bike boulevard between El Camino Real and Palm Avenue.
•
Palm Avenue is prioritized for an upgrade from a Class III bike route to a Class II bike lane from
South Boulevard to 25th Avenue.
•
A Class III bike boulevard is proposed to stretch from 20th Avenue just south of the site along
Isabelle Avenue, 22nd Avenue, and Hacienda Street to 39th Avenue.
•
A bike lane is proposed along Alameda de las Pulgas from Crystal Springs Road to 26th Avenue,
where it is proposed to continue further south as a buffered bike lane.
Transit Services 
The project site is located within a 0.8-mile walk of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and is also served 
directly by the Campus Drive (CAM) Shuttle, which connects to the Hillsdale Caltrain station, providing 
access to north-south regional travel, as well as multiple San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) 
bus routes as shown in Table 4. 
Table 4. Summary of Transit Services 
Transit Service 
Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance to 
Closest Stop 
Cost 
CAM Shuttle 
(operated by 
Commute.org) 
Monday – Friday 
during commute 
hours. Does not 
operate on 
holidays 
4 trips in the AM 
and 5 in the PM 
every 45-60 
minutes* 
W. 20th Avenue and 
Isabelle Avenue (City 
Hall)
0 miles (on 
site) 
Free 
BART 
Monday – Friday 
before 9 PM 
30 minutes 
Millbrae station 
8.4 miles 
$4.25+** 
Caltrain 
Daily – 6 AM to 
11:40 PM 
60 minutes (30 
minutes from 
the Hillsdale 
station) 
Hayward Park station 
0.8 miles 
(1.5 miles to 
Hillsdale 
station) 
$3.20-$10+** 
SamTrans 
Route ECR 
Daily – 4 AM to 
midnight 
15 minutes 
El Camino Real and 
W. 20th Avenue
0.4 miles/ 8-
minute walk 
$2.25 
(Cash/Mobile), 
$2.05 (Clipper) 
SamTrans 
Route 250 
Weekdays – 6 AM 
to 10 PM 
Weekends – 9 
AM to 6 PM  
30 minutes 
Alameda de las 
Pulgas & W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 10-
minute walk 
$2.25 
(Cash/Mobile), 
$2.05 (Clipper) 
SamTrans 
Route 397 
Daily – All night 
bus running 
between 
midnight and 6 
AM 
60 minutes 
El Camino Real and 
W. 20th Avenue
0.4 miles / 8-
minute walk 
$2.25 
(Cash/Mobile), 
$2.05 (Clipper)

--- page 190 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
April 2021 |9 
Table 5. Summary of Transit Services Continued 
Transit Service 
Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance to 
Closest Stop 
Cost 
SamTrans 
Route 294 
Daily – 6 AM to 9 
PM 
60 minutes 
Alameda de las 
Pulgas & W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 10-
minute walk 
$2.25 
(Cash/Mobile), 
$2.05 (Clipper) 
SamTrans 
Route 295 
Weekdays – 6 AM 
to 5 PM 
120 minutes 
Alameda de las 
Pulgas & W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 10-
minute walk 
$2.25 
(Cash/Mobile), 
$2.05 (Clipper) 
*Reduced trips due to COVID-19 
**Depending on distance
Nearby Destinations 
Key destinations in close proximity to the project site include: 
•
Four shopping centers within 0.8 miles of the site that offer access to restaurants, grocery stores,
banks, a pharmacy, a health clinic, a gym, and a post office.
•
Two childcare centers within 0.7 miles.
•
Three parks within one mile.
•
Over one dozen schools within two miles including the public schools that the project is zoned to,
as shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Zone Public Schools for 1919 O’Farrell St. 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance 
in miles 
Beresford Elementary School 
1.0 
Aragon High School 
1.0 
Abbott Middle School 
1.7 
Available TDM Services 
Commute.org Incentives 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their resources are 
available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and employees of the 
project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those commuting within the 
County and in the surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a regional clearinghouse for 
all transportation and commuting-related information. They also provide the following services: 
•
CAM Shuttle: Commute.org manages the CAM Shuttle connecting the Hillsdale station to the
project site on Campus Drive. It serves as a free first/last mile connector to Caltrain. There is
currently one vehicle on the route that operates at a 45 to 60-minute frequency.
•
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free ‘try transit’ program that allows individuals to
request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.
•
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze Carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards
worth up to $100.
•
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward and vanpool riders can be
reimbursed $100/month of their vanpool rental costs for up to three months.

--- page 191 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |10 
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to residents 
and commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers and other sites, 
including residential properties, within San Mateo County. They can be 60, 75, or 90 minutes in 
length depending on what is ideal for the requesting party and include time for Q&A. 
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in the County with 
incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. The program was active until December 
2020 but Commute.org is likely to continue providing a bike incentive past December if funding is 
available.  
• 
E-Bike Rebate: An e-bike rebate was recently approved by Peninsula Clean Energy in partnership 
with Commute.org. The program will be available for three years and offers a rebate of up to 80% 
purchase price ($800 cap) for those within 400% of the federal poverty limit.  
• 
Guaranteed Ride Home (GRH) – Individuals who do not drive to work alone can take advantage of 
a GRH program in case of an emergency. Those who work or attend college in San Mateo County 
are eligible for Commute.org’s GRH program that covers the cost of a ride home (up to $60) in the 
event of an emergency up to four times per year. Contra Costa, Alameda, San Francisco, and Marin 
Counties also offer similar GRH or Emergency Ride Home programs.

--- page 192 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |11 
The TDM strategies in this section are effective and appropriate TDM measures based on the project’s 
size, location, and land use. They provide guidelines for implementation, cost estimates, expected 
timelines, and indicate the anticipated responsible party for each recommended measure. It is 
understood that the property management team will be the ‘responsible party’ for most TDM 
measures outlined below.  
A City of San Mateo guideline based on the Sustainable Streets Final Plan (accepted by City Council in 
February 2015), recommends that all new developments within City limits submit a TDM plan with a 
trip reduction target of 10 percent. This section aims to estimate the percentage of trips that each 
strategy can reduce for the property. It is important to note that many of the TDM strategies in this 
section are scalable and can easily be expanded by increasing the amount of resources allocated. The 
remaining TDM strategies play a supportive role that help increase the impact of the other strategies 
listed. The percent vehicle trip reduced calculations in this section are based on the City’s estimate of 
223 total daily trips for the property. 
TDM Coordinator 
An on-site TDM coordinator would act as a liaison between the developer, City, and the residents to 
create safe and walkable communities. Appointing a TDM coordinator would help develop, implement, 
and report on the various TDM strategies. This person would be responsible for coordinating and 
marketing the selected TDM strategies as well as maintaining working relationships with the City and 
nearby developments.  
Implementation Guidelines: 
Assign the role of TDM Coordinator to an individual on the apartment management team to plan and 
implement the TDM program. Allocate approximately 5 hours per month for the TDM Coordinator to 
spend on the following activities:  
• 
Annual Monitoring: Survey the residents and compile a monitoring report for submission to the 
City of San Mateo once a year. Additional hours may be needed during this time - see Chapter 5 
for details.  
• 
TDM Program Coordination and Outreach: Organize and promote sustainable travel options 
through apartment communications such as emails, newsletters, and social media. Specific tasks 
include:  
– 
Organize and promote the trip reduction and air quality strategies detailed in the following 
sections  
– 
Promote the sustainable transportation options available to the residents  
 
 
 
 
3 Project TDM Measures

--- page 193 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |12 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 per year  
Responsible party  
Apartment management team 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
11 to 21 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
Spending 5 hours per month organizing TDM programs will lead 
to a .5% to 3% decrease in vehicle trips (can be reduced further 
with an increased commitment in time and TDM strategies) 
Institutionalizing TDM 
It is important that the TDM program be implemented as the site becomes occupied and when units 
eventually begin to turn over and be updated as needs change and transportation options and 
technology evolve. Therefore, the TDM Plan should become institutionalized as part of the property’s 
organizational structure to ensure the program remains in place and new residents are aware of its 
existence. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Institutionalize the TDM Program through the apartment lease. Describe the TDM infrastructure, 
amenities, and programs available to residents and how they will be made available to the residents in 
the lease.  
 
Estimated timeframe  
During the drafting of lease language and ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 – it is likely that this cost will already be undertaken by the 
property management in order to establish the details of the lease 
agreement, so including TDM in this effort will likely come at no 
additional cost.  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 to 1  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% 
New Resident Packets 
Individuals are most likely to make a change in their transportation behavior alongside other life 
changes. This means that providing new residents with a packet that offers them all their 
transportation options would increase the likelihood for them to choose options other than driving 
alone. 
New residents would be provided with welcome packets that include a Clipper Card with stored value, 
customized transportation information about nearby transit routes, bus stops, bike maps and routes 
and other TDM initiatives undertaken by the property. The welcome packets should also include the 
contact information of the property’s TDM Coordinator. Figure 5 offers an example of a welcome 
packet distributed to new residents in Santa Monica, CA.

--- page 194 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |13 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Design a New Resident Packet for the property that provides information on all transportation modes 
available as well as services that may make choosing sustainable travel easier. The TDM Coordinator 
can work directly with Commute.org, who can assist the property in purchasing Clipper Cards as well as 
provide supportive materials, commuter incentives and advice. The packet should include: 
• 
A Clipper Card with stored value ($10 to $20 would be ideal) 
• 
Map depicting a 10- and 20-minute walk and bicycle radius  
• 
Information about the transit options available (free CAM shuttle, SamTrans, Caltrain, and BART) 
and how to connect to them including Park and Ride options  
• 
Information about all the transportation related amenities offered by the property 
• 
Information about Commute.org services and resources 
• 
Information about Guaranteed Ride Home and how to register  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 to develop packet, $10 to $20 in Clipper Card stored 
value, then up to $3 per packet to print and distribute  
Approximately $3,000 total 
Responsible party  
Owner or consultant to develop; Property Management team 
to maintain and distribute long term  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
114 to 127  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
2.7% to 3.1%  
Figure 5. A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica

--- page 195 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |14 
 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage 
A low-cost strategy to promote 
sustainable modes of transport would be 
to provide multimodal wayfinding signage 
at entry and exit points of the property. 
Wayfinding can help people visualize how 
close sustainable travel options are and in 
which direction as well as familiarize them 
with nearby modes. Examples of 
wayfinding window decals used in the City 
of Santa Monica are shown in Figure 6. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Using consistent and legible design 
guidelines, create and post a network of 
pedestrian-scale signage at key entry and 
exit points of the property. The signs should point users to key destinations and give them estimates 
for how far away they are by walking and/or biking.  
Be sure to evaluate the signage regularly to take into consideration any infrastructural or service 
changes that may impact options. 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy 
Estimated cost  
Under $500  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
1 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% 
TDM Communications 
In order to encourage individuals to choose sustainable travel options, it is critical to provide them with 
the information needed to do so. Having a communications plan that outlines what information to 
share and how will set clear expectations for the TDM Coordinator.  
Communicating Transportation Information: 
• 
Website - Having all transportation-related information and resources available in one virtual 
location makes it easy and convenient for residents to learn about their travel options. The 
webpage should provide information about relevant special offers and programs from outside 
agencies (such as the Peninsula Clean Energy e-bike subsidy while there is funding), nearby transit 
routes and schedules, bike and pedestrian paths, services offered by Commute.org and other 
amenities. This is especially helpful for residents new to the neighborhood who are unaware of the 
transportation options available to them. 
• 
Resident Newsletters – Include TDM messaging in resident newsletters on a regular basis to 
inform and update residents of sustainable travel options, upcoming events, and activities. 
Commute.org sends out regularly scheduled newsletters that are a good reference for up-to-date 
transportation information. Each newsletter could advertise different TDM measures and events 
Figure 6. Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica

--- page 196 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |15 
such as commuter promotions and incentives and highlight resources such as 511 and 
Commute.org.  
• 
Apartment Social Media Channels (Facebook, Instagram, etc.) – Promote transportation options 
and updates via the apartment website and social media channels such as Facebook, Instagram 
and Nextdoor. 
Transportation Options to Promote: 
• 
All TDM incentives and services offered by the property to 1919 O’Farrell residents, such as 
Parking Cash Out and bike parking   
• 
Resources for trip planning: Transit app, Google Maps or Citymapper offer excellent smartphone-
based trip planning options  
• 
A link to Commute.org with information (see page 9) about the resources available to residents, 
especially information regarding the mode-specific resources and subsidies offered.  
• 
Information about the Guaranteed Ride Home (GRH) or Emergency Ride Home (ERH) programs 
offered by the surrounding counties (e.g., Commute.org's GRH program for commuters who work 
in San Mateo County, Alameda County's GRH program, Marin County ERH program, etc.)  
• 
Information on the CAM Shuttle 
• 
Information about Safe Routes to School programs 
• 
Links to transit information  
– 
Caltrain, including Information about bikes on board, secure bike parking, and Park and Ride 
lots and at the Hayward Park, Hillsdale, and Belmont stations  
– 
BART, including information about bikes on board, secure bike parking  
• 
Information about biking, including links to local bike maps and cycling resources  
Implementation Guidelines:  
Create a webpage that lives on or is linked from the property’s resident facing website and includes all 
the above listed information, at a minimum. Commute.org offers a comprehensive transportation 
resources website free of charge that provides much of the above information. 
 
Develop a regular schedule for newsletters and social media posts and promote relevant 
transportation information regularly. 
 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, property management (TDM Coordinator) to 
maintain webpage and newsletter/social media calendar as 
well as managing all transportation-related information to 
residents.  
Estimated cost  
$0  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
2 to 5  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0%

--- page 197 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |16 
Bike Education/ Workshops 
Encouraging bike ridership is one of the most effective ways of reducing short range trips by car. About 
59.4% of vehicle trips in the United States were less than six miles in 2017.1 The property could partner 
with local bike advocacy groups, bike shops or Commute.org to host bike safety workshops to educate 
residents on the basics of biking and share educational resources such as maps of nearby bike 
amenities (such as BikeLink lockers at train stations).   
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with Commute.org or a local bike advocacy organization to organize a bicycle safety training 
webinar or workshop annually. Commute.org offers free bike training workshops to employers and 
residential properties within San Mateo County. 
 
Promote the workshop or webinar along with additional resources on the property’s dedicated 
website, resident newsletter, and social media. Some additional resources to share with residents 
include:  
 
• 
Bike Safety and Rules of the Road  
• 
Family Biking - How to Bike Safely with Adults and Kids of Any Age  
• 
Biking Maps and Trails  
 
Estimated timeframe  
75% occupancy, annually  
Estimated cost  
$0  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
0 to 4 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0 to 0.5% for every four individuals who participate in a 
workshop and will increase further with additional 
participants 
 
 
1 As per data collected from Office of Energy Efficiency and renewable Energy 2017. 
https://www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/articles/fotw-1042-august-13-2018-2017-nearly-60-all-vehicle-trips-were-less-six 
miles#:~:text=Data%20collected%20on%20one%2Dway,distance%20categories%20about%205%25%20each.

--- page 198 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |17 
In addition to the project TDM measures, the following strategies would help to support further trip 
reductions. They are offered as optional recommendations as they are measures that will require 
additional financial investments. These strategies have not been included in the calculations showing 
vehicle trips and VMT reduced in Section 5.  
Parking Cash Out 
Access to free parking often dramatically reduces the cost of car ownership. Providing a Parking Cash 
Out benefit means that those who choose to forgo their free assigned parking spot will earn a tangible 
benefit for doing so in addition to saving on the costs associated with vehicle ownership. By separating 
the cost of renting an apartment from the cost of the parking spot, the property will encourage and 
reward sustainable travel.  
A potential concern may be that residents who participate in Parking Cash Out may abuse the benefit 
and park their vehicle off-site, creating a parking spillover effect for adjacent streets and parking 
facilities. To help prevent this, the Parking Cash Out agreement between the property and participating 
resident should include a clause that prohibits participants from parking off-site. Additional mitigation 
may come from the City’s Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP), which prevents residents at 
multi-family dwellings with decoupled parking from obtaining permits and parking on-street beyond 
the posted time restriction. As the Serra High School RPPP zone is located adjacent to the project site, 
residents would be ineligible for permits and not allowed to park long-term on most nearby 
neighborhood streets to the southwest.  
Implementation guidelines:  
Allow households to give up access to free parking and offer a monthly incentive in exchange.  
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy (during the drafting of lease agreements), and 
ongoing.  
Estimated cost  
$100/parking spot/month  
($100 is based on the cost of a monthly parking permit at City 
owned Central Garage) 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
30 to 67 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
1% to 2.4% for every three parking spots cashed out and will 
increase with additional cash outs 
 
Shared Vehicle Credits or Subsidies  
The developer could partner with an existing carshare company such as Zipcar or a transportation 
network company (TNC) like Lyft or Uber to provide those who do not own a vehicle the ability to use a 
car when needed. An incentive that provides occasional access to a vehicle, coupled with parking 
4 Optional TDM Strategies

--- page 199 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |18 
incentives, can enhance the effect of these measures and encourage households to forgo vehicle 
ownership (studies show increased car access decreases use of other modes such as transit)2. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with a shared vehicle provider such as Zipcar, Lyft, or Uber to provide residents access to a car 
when needed. The benefit could be made available to all residents or only to those who do not have 
access to a parking space. Each participating household could be provided with $50 to $100 in credits 
annually.  
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$300 to $2,500 (depending on number of participants)  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
1 to 2  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% to 1% with six participants and can increase with the 
number of participants 
Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy 
Ridesharing companies like Waze Carpool and Scoop connect commuters going the same way through 
an app-based model. The property can partner with Waze and/or Scoop to offer subsidies to residents 
who choose to carpool. Waze Carpool and Scoop are the two official carpooling services that 
Commute.org partners with for San Mateo County and as such have a large pool of potential carpool 
partners. Working with these existing services will save the TDM Coordinator from creating a new 
rideshare database for the property which could become limited considering the small number of 
residents.  
Implementation Guidelines: 
Offer and promote a daily or monthly subsidy to those who choose to utilize Waze Carpool or Scoop 
for their work commute. This can be done as a reimbursement or applied directly at the time of 
booking. For example, those who carpool to work can receive a $2 to $5 subsidy toward the cost of 
their ride per day or a $100 per month reward for carpooling a minimum of 15 days in a month.   
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 to $10,000 per year depending on policy set and 
number of participants 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
10 to 50  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0.5% to 1.35% with every nine participants in the carpool 
program and will increase with each additional carpooler 
 
2 Jordan, S. (May 2019). Ridership Study Revisited UCLA ITS Scholars 2018 Report on Falling Transit Ridership Gets a Second 
Look. Retrieved from https://caltransit.org/news-publications/publications/transit-california/transit-california-archives/2019-
editions/may/ridership-study-revisited/

--- page 200 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |19 
Bike Share 
Providing shared bikes to tenants is an excellent way to further encourage bike ridership. Bike trips 
could easily replace short trips and local errands under three miles. Use of e-bikes can increase the 
bike-shed even further, to around seven miles.    
Implementation Guidelines:  
Offer San Mateo City Bikeshare memberships to residents if/when a vendor becomes available. 
Alternatively, if public bike share is not available, purchase four or more bicycles to create a property 
bike share. While a property based bike share is easy to implement and adjust over time, the following 
factors should be considered at the outset to ensure the program meets resident needs and is widely 
used.  
• 
Choose at least one e-bike as part of the fleet 
• 
Choose at least one cargo or cargo e-bike for the fleet so that residents can transport children or 
make grocery store trips  
• 
Choose bikes with easily adjustable seat height and wide seat height range to allow use by riders 
of different sizes  
• 
Purchase a bike trailer so residents can transport children or groceries  
• 
Keep the bikes well maintained and clean regularly. The property could partner with local bike 
shops to do on-site maintenance or tune-ups twice a year. 
• 
Place the bikes in a visible easy to access location so that using the bikes is convenient for the 
residents 
• 
A simple check out system will make using the bikes more convenient. The bikes cab be offered on 
a first come, first served basis where the residents are required to check out a key to the bike lock 
from the front desk. The TDM Coordinator can choose to create a more complex bike checkout 
and/or reservation system if that makes more sense for the property, or invest in technology-
based smart locks that only open for specific people or those who have access to a frequently 
updated code.  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$10,000 to $15,000 depending on cost and number of bikes, 
ongoing maintenance. 
Administrative costs will vary based on program structure  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
8 to 16 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
1% to 1.8% for every six people who use the shared bikes for 
short trips and will increase with additional bikes and users 
and as bike infrastructure in the area improves

--- page 201 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |20 
If implemented correctly and consistently, the TDM program outlined in Section 3 is forecasted to 
result in a daily reduction of over 100 vehicle miles traveled (VMT), which would lead to a reduction in 
over 40 kilograms of carbon dioxide every day. 
VMT Reduction Calculations 
Estimated VMT reduction calculations were made using the TDM Return on Investment (ROI) 
Calculator, a tool owned by Mobility Lab and developed by university and governmental partners. The 
ROI calculator helps practitioners and policy makers understand the benefits of their investment in 
TDM strategies and programs by calculating estimated vehicle trips, VMT, hours of congestion delay, 
and emissions reduced. More information about the ROI Calculator and assumptions made to calculate 
estimated impacts are included in Appendix A. 
Program Impacts 
TDM Program for 1919 O’Farrell Street 
Table 7 outlines the total estimated VMT and congestion hours reduced with the recommended TDM 
program for the project site. 
Table 7. Project TDM Measures Impact Overview 
Strategy 
Annual VMT 
Reduced  
Annual Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
Annual Congestion 
Reduced (hours of 
delay)  
Carbon Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
 
 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
1919 O’Farrell 
Recommended 
TDM Program 
29,393 
36,062 
1,482 
1,976 
3,705 
4,693 
10,127 
12,350 
Note: The annual values are derived from multiplying the daily values outputs from the TDM ROI Calculator by 247, the 
average number of commute days per year with vacation days factored in. 
Individual Strategies 
Table 8 outlines the individual program components and estimated annual VMT reduction ranges for 
each. This is presented in order to provide an understanding of which strategies are the most 
impactful. However, whenever possible, program impacts should be measured and estimated 
holistically to avoid ‘double counting’ strategies that overlap. This is demonstrated in the comparison 
between Tables 7 and 8, where the cumulative impacts of the entire program are less than if the 
expected impacts of each individual strategy were to be added together.  
5 Impacts of Project TDM Measures

--- page 202 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |21 
Table 8. Individual Impacts of Project TDM Measures  
Strategy 
Annual VMT 
Reduced  
Annual Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
Annual 
Congestion 
Reduced (hours 
of delay)  
Carbon Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
  
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
TDM Coordinator 
2,717 
5,187 
247 
247 
494 
741 
988 
1,729 
Institutionalizing TDM 
0 
247 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
New Resident Packets 
28,158 
31,369 
1,482 
1,729 
3,705 
4,199 
9,633 
10,621 
Wayfinding Signage 
247 
247 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
TDM Communications (Website, 
Newsletter, Social Media) 
494 
1,235 
0 
0 
0 
0 
247 
494 
Bike Education/ Workshops 
741 
1,729 
0 
247 
0 
0 
247 
494

--- page 203 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |22 
Regular monitoring will help the project site track the impact of their TDM programs as well as provide 
a regular schedule for evaluating programming and identifying gaps and opportunities. The results will 
help the apartment building adjust programs to better meet the needs of their residents.  
Annual Survey 
The City of San Mateo requires an annual letter to the Public Works Director or designee that outlines 
the TDM measures implemented and information from a mode split survey.  
To comply with City requirements, the TDM Coordinator will conduct an annual resident survey to 
understand resident commute patterns and the modes by which they commute. During the first year 
of occupancy, an initial survey should be conducted to establish a baseline to which future surveys will 
be compared. 
The baseline survey and the subsequent annual surveys should ask questions to understand how 
residents travel for different types of trips and understand barriers to sustainable travel. To gain an 
insight into the resident’s travel characteristics and attitudes, the survey should identify the following 
key topics: 
• 
Mode of travel by trip purpose (work, school, leisure, etc.) 
• 
Work location 
• 
Business travel requirements, if applicable 
• 
Daycare or school pick-up/drop-off location, if applicable  
• 
Flexible working arrangements, if applicable 
• 
Improvements to the main mode of travel 
• 
Current barriers to walking/biking 
• 
Ideas for how the property could encourage walking, biking, carpooling and transit 
• 
Car ownership 
• 
Residents’ level of awareness of the property’s TDM amenities  
• 
Feedback on amenities and services currently available to the residents 
• 
Other services or amenities that are not currently offered which would encourage residents to try 
a different mode of travel 
The survey results allow the property to not only track program progress but also identify ways to 
adjust the program and further shift travel behavior towards more sustainable modes (transit, bike, 
walk and carpool) over time. The TDM Coordinator could use the data to understand which amenities 
are popular and should remain, which are not effective and should be adjusted, and identify additional 
measures to implement in their place.  
 
6 Monitoring

--- page 204 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
April 2021 |23 
Appendices

--- page 205 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
The Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Return on Investment-(ROI) Calculator is a tool 
owned by Mobility Lab, an Arlington County, Virginia funded transportation behavior and policy 
research center. It was developed in partnership with university and governmental partners, with 
funding from the Federal Highway Administration, to provide TDM program staff, transportation 
planners, and others involved in implementing TDM services a quantifiable way to estimate the 
ROI for TDM services.  
According to the TDM ROI Calculator User Manual, the model calculates impacts for individual 
TDM services then combines the individual impacts, with discounts to account for overlap 
between services, to determine the cumulative impact of all services.3 
The calculator performs the following functions:  
• 
Estimates TDM travel impacts, defined as reductions in commute vehicle trips and vehicle 
miles travelled (VMT), from a user-defined package of TDM services  
• 
Converts vehicle trip and VMT reductions into societal benefits, such as reduction in hours of 
travel time delay and gallons of gasoline saved  
• 
Calculates the societal cost savings from each benefit and the overall cost saving from all 
benefits combined  
• 
Compares the societal cost saving to the TDM program "investment" cost to estimate ROI  
As most TDM programs do not have detailed VMT and trip reduction data, the ROI Calculator 
instead asks for user participation numbers and program costs as the inputs for its calculations. 
The model then uses four calculation factors derived from TDM service user surveys along with 
pre-set regional inputs and national environmental data to estimate the number of participants 
who will shift behavior and the number of daily vehicle trips, VMT and hours of congestion that 
their behavior shift will reduce. If more detailed regional and national data are known, they can be 
input to override the preset data used for calculation.   
The inputs used for calculating the VMT and vehicle trip reductions for the 1919 O’Farrell TDM 
Plan are outlined below so that the results can be duplicated with ease.  
 
 
 
3 Mobility Lab.(2019).TDM ROI Calculator User Manual Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/calculators/ 
A TDM ROI Calculator

--- page 206 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
A1 
Regional Inputs  
At the outset in Section A (Your Region, Service Area Type and Transit Availability), the TDM ROI Calculator 
asks users to make a series of selections to determine geographic and transit characteristics of the area 
being examined. The options selected for the 1919 O’Farrell TDM Plan are displayed in Table A.1 as follows:  
 
Table A.1: Selections made for region, service area type and transit availability   
Questions in the ROI Calculator 
Option Selected for the TDM Plan 
Metropolitan Region 
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA 
Primary land use density and development pattern 
Moderate density, urban or small city/town 
Primary focus of TDM program outreach  
Primarily to commuters at residential areas 
Percentage of commuters within 1/2 mi of 
bus/train stop in the service area  
76% to 100% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a 
bus or train stop 
Average public transit frequency in the service area 
in the morning peak period (Select ONLY ONE 
option) 
Low- Average rush hour frequency for most routes 
is 31 minutes or more OR there is no transit service 
With the above inputs selected, the model determines the classifications for the project site as follows in 
Table A.2: 
Table A.2: Project site TDM service area and transit availability classifications  
Your TDM Service Area classification is: 
Suburban/Small city 
Your Transit Availability classification is: 
Moderate Transit 
A2 
Regional Travel, Environmental and Cost Benefit Factors  
The final section of the ROI Calculator (Section F - Additional Regional/Service Area Data 
Environmental Inputs) shows the default numbers used for regional travel, environmental and 
cost benefit factors. Users have the option to override these defaults by inputting values into the 
“User Defined” cells if specific local factors are known. Table A.3 shows the defaults assumed by 
the model and indicates if the defaults were overridden, and which values were used. The inputs 
defined in Table A.3 remained the same for all calculations for the 1919 O’Farrell TDM Plan.

--- page 207 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
Table A.3: Travel, vehicle pollutant emission, and benefit cost factor default and user defined values   
Regional Travel Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Average home-to-work commute miles for the region (one-way distance)  
9.6 
13.91 
Percentage of regional commuters who drive alone to work OR percentage 
of weekly commute trips made by driving alone  
63.2% 
62%2 
Percentage of regional commuters who ride public transit to work OR 
percentage of weekly commute trips made by transit  
17.6% 
17%2 
Regional Vehicle Pollutant Emission Factors 
National 
Default 
User 
Defined 
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.445 
0.1714 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.075 
0.0354 
Greenhouse gas (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) emission rate in grams per mile 
of travel  
387.460 
342.0004 
Regional Benefit Cost Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Median average wage rate for commuters in the service area or 
metropolitan region  
$24.90 
$49.711 
Estimated average annualized cost to build/maintain one lane-mile of major 
roadway (combination of Interstate and limited access roadway) 
$165,000 
N/A 
Average pump price per gallon for regular unleaded gasoline 
$3.36 
$3.973 
1 Source: San Mateo Economic Development Association’s Labor Supply and Commute Patterns in San Mateo County 
Report, 2012.  
2 Source: ACS 2018 5-year for the Census Tract 6074, Census.gov 
3 Source: Gas Price Watch 
4 Source: California Air Resources Board Emissions Factors (EMFAC) database 
Assumptions 
Resident Characteristics Assumptions 
To estimate potential participation numbers, some assumptions about the number of individuals 
living at the property at 100% occupancy were made. These assumptions begin with the 
knowledge that there will be 49 units for rent. The assumptions and the basis for each are 
outlined in Table A.4.

--- page 208 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
Table A.4: 1919 O’Farrell St. resident characteristics assumptions  
Category 
Assumption and Basis 
Number 
Total number of people 
residing at the property at full 
occupancy 
ACS data indicates that there are 2.3 persons per 
household in the census tract 6074 and there will be 49 
homes on-site. 
113 
Children under 18 
ACS data shows that 21% of the census tract’s 
population is children 
24 
Adults 
Subtracting children from the total population  
89 
Number of workers or 
commuters 
ACS data shows that 23% of people residing in the 
census tract are not in the labor force 
69 
 
ROI Calculator Participation and Calculation Factors Assumptions 
In order to use the ROI calculator to calculate estimated impacts for the 1919 O’Farrell St. project, 
assumptions were made to estimate participation rate for each strategy. Additionally, if a strategy 
was not outlined as a direct input in the model, assumptions were made to estimate the 
calculation factors associated with it. Table A.5 outlines those assumptions.

--- page 209 ---
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
Table A.5: Participation and calculation factor assumptions used for TDM measures   
Strategy 
ROI Calc 
Input  
Participation 
Assumption 
(per year) 
Basis for Participation Assumption 
Placement 
rate (%) 
Assumption 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Factor 
Assumption 
One-Way 
Commute 
Distance 
Assumption 
Drive-Alone 
Access  % 
Assumption  
TDM 
Coordinator  
Comprehe
nsive 
commute 
assistance 
4 
Organize all TDM activities on the property and assist 5% 
of residents with questions about transportation 
including one-on-one assistance when asked and 
promoting sustainable transportation options  
40% 
Pre-set in 
mode 
0.8 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Institutionalizing 
TDM at the 
Property 
Targeted 
residential 
marketing 
89 
All adults residing at the property would see and sign 
the lease 
 
1% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
New Resident 
Packet  
Alternativ
e mode 
“try it” 
incentive 
17 
Each household on the property would receive a 
packet. At a minimum, the transit users (17%) would 
take advantage of the cards and an additional 5% (4) 
will “try it” based on the transit mode split and ease 
of accessing the incentive 
50% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Wayfinding to 
outside building 
(signs/stickers) 
Targeted 
residential 
marketing 
89 
The decals would be visible to all residents 
 
1% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
TDM 
Communications 
Commute 
program 
website  
22 
10% of adults would access webpage for transportation 
info and incentives and approximately 25% would see 
the newsletter and social media communications, 
especially if they are included with communications 
regarding other property updates.  
35% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.3 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Bike Education 
and Promotion 
Custom 
4 
Approximately 4 individuals will attend the workshop. 
That number is likely to increase over time as bike 
infrastructure improves. According to NACTO, 
approximately 40 of the 89 adults at the property 
would be willing to ride a bike on streets with a 
protected bike lane.  
20% 
Pre-set in 
model (for 
commute 
challenges/ 
events) 
1.2 
Used the 
same pre-set 
for a bike 
commute 
program 
10 miles 
Average doable 
biking distance 
according to 
Mobility  
Lab A1  
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
A1 McLeish, Mike. (February 27,2017). How far is too far to bike to work? Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/2017/02/27/how-far-bike-work/  
A2 National Association of City Transportation Organizers. (July 20, 2016). High-Quality Bike Facilities Increase Ridership and Make Biking Safer. Retrieved from 
https://nacto.org/2016/07/20/high-quality-bike-facilities-increase-ridership-make-biking-safer/  
A3 Eco-Counter. (January 2021). Bike count trends by North American region for December 2020 (compared to Dec 2019). Retrieved from https://www.eco-compteur.com/en/cycling-data-
tracker/

--- page 210 ---
B 1919 O’Farrell Street Site 
Assessment

--- page 211 ---
1 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
To 
Somer Smith, City of San Mateo 
Memo 
Cc 
From 
Puja Thomas-Patel, Steer 
Date 
January 18, 2020 
Project 
1919 O’Farrell Street TDM Plan  
Project No. 23946201 
 
1919 O’Farrell Street Site Assessment Memo 
 
Source: DNA Design and Architecture 
The City of San Mateo has commissioned Steer to develop a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan for 
the 1919 O’Farrell Street Project to reduce the ceiling of potential congestion and trips generated by the project. 
The project is a planned residential rental property owned by Sierra Investments and being developed by DNA 
Design and Architecture (referred to as “the developer” or as “DNA” throughout this document).  
The TDM Plan development process begins with a thorough assessment of the site, including existing and planned 
conditions. A combination of interviews with local TDM experts, desktop-based research and analyses, review of 
available site plans and renderings, and study of planned developments was utilized in our understanding of the 
site conditions. Insight from the City and developer team has also been incorporated into this document.  
This document details the following aspects of the site and project:  
• 
Project Description 
• 
Transit Services 
• 
Travel Trends 
• 
Site Geography and Road 
Network 
• 
Nearby Attractions 
• 
Next Steps 
• 
Pedestrian and Bicycle 
Infrastructure 
• 
Available TDM Services

--- page 212 ---
2 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
Project Description 
The project site is located at 1919 O’Farrell Street in the Beresford Park neighborhood in the City of San Mateo 
within the 94403 ZIP code. The project involves the demolition of an existing one-story office building to 
construct a four-story, 49-unit multi-family apartment community with subterranean parking. It is expected 
that the project will break ground in 2022.  
The site is zoned for Executive Park/High Density Multi-Family (E1-1/R4) uses. As shown in Figure 1, the area 
immediately surrounding the project site, designated with a blue box, is primarily zoned Executive Park/High 
Density Multi-Family, which allows for mixed use development. The neighboring parcels south of the Highway 
92 are zoned the same as the project site, with the exception of City Hall being zoned as Executive Park (E1) 
only. The area to the southwest is primarily zoned Single Family (One Family Dwelling, R1B), while the areas to 
the southeast are predominantly zoned Multi-Family (R4). The parcels just east of the Executive Office/High-
Density Multi-Family zone abutting El Camino Real are designated Regional/Community Commercial (C2).   
Figure 1. City of San Mateo Land Use Designations 
  
Source: City of San Mateo website 
The project is located on a 0.71-acre parcel which allows a base density of 36 units. Of the 36 units, four are 
dedicated to very low-income households. Therefore, taking advantage of the Sate Density Bonus, the four 
very low-income units make up 11% of the base density, providing the development with a 35% density bonus 
and the ability to construct 13 additional units. Thus, there will be a total of 49 units on the property. Each unit 
on the project site will be 746 to 1,556 square feet in size. Table 1 provides additional details regarding the 
proposed project compared to the parcel’s current use.

--- page 213 ---
3 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Table 1: Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current  
Proposed 
Description 
1-story office building 
4-story multi-family residential 
building 
Square Footage 
3,967 sq. ft. of office space 
55,541 sq. ft. of living space 
Zoning Designation 
Executive Office/High Density 
Multi-Family 
Executive Office/High Density 
Multi-Family 
The project proposes a total of 64 subterranean vehicle parking spaces on-site, which is 30 spaces more than 
required. Additionally, the project will also provide infrastructure for long and short-term bicycle parking for 
residents and guests, with room for 58 bicycles across the property. The nearest Caltrain station, the Hayward 
Park Station, is located within a 0.8-mile walk of the site. 
The residential community will be managed by a team of property managers once units are available for rent. 
Geography and Road Network 
The project site is located at the end of a cul-de-sac at level grade as seen in Figure 2, which provides a map 
view. The site is surrounded by: 
• 
Highway 92 to the north 
• 
The Park 20 Apartments and SR-82 (El Camino Real)-adjacent shopping center to the east 
• 
A single-story office building and Corte Bella condos to the south 
• 
A three-story office building, parking garage, and San Mateo City Hall to the west 
• 
Junipero Serra High School to the southwest 
The site has quick access to Downtown San Mateo, which is less than two miles away:  
• 
7 mins by car   
• 
9 mins by bike  
• 
7 mins by e-bike 
• 
18 mins by transit (ECR Bus)  
• 
28 mins by walking

--- page 214 ---
4 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Figure 2. A view of the project site

--- page 215 ---
5 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
O’Farrell Street connects to West 20th Avenue, which in turn connects the project site to South El 
Camino Real to the East, Alameda de las Pulgas to the West and Highway 92 to the North (via El 
Camino Real).  
From the site, drivers can reach as far as Hayward, Palo Alto and Half Moon Bay within 20 minutes. 
During the peak hours of 4 to 6 PM, driver access is limited significantly. The peak hour estimates 
provided in Figure 3 are from 2019 (pre-COVID).  
Figure 3. 20 Minute Car Shed for 1919 O’Farrell Street 
 
Source: WalkScore.com 
The intersection of El Camino Real and 20th Avenue, the first major intersection coming out of the 1919 
O’Farrell Street development, sees moderate congestion throughout the day with a ‘C’ Level of Service 
or lower during both the AM and PM rush hours. Table 2 demonstrates that congestion may be a 
concern for the area.   
Table 2. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 20th Ave. intersection 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service 
 
Year 2016 Conditions 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
El Camino Real and 20th Avenue 
34.5 
C 
45.9 
D 
Sources: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (October 2018) 
 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
The site’s topography, street network, and proximity to commercial centers are conducive to 
pedestrian and bicycle access. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives the site an 82/100 for 
walking, which they classify as “very walkable – most errands can be accomplished on foot.” The 
walkshed for the project site is seen in Figure 4.

--- page 216 ---
6 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
There are two Class III Bicycle Routes connecting 
with 20th Avenue near the site. The first of 
these is to the west of the project site, running 
along Alameda de las Pulgas from Crystal 
Springs Road through the southern limits of the 
City (with a small portion of Class II lanes 
located in the Hillsdale area to the south).  The 
second route runs along Palm Avenue, to the 
east of the project site. Figure 5 shows the 
bicycle routes of the surrounding area, with the 
immediate project area denoted by the purple 
box. 
The bicycle route on Alameda de las Pulgas 
provides access to several schools and parks, 
and it eventually connects to the Hillsdale 
Shopping Center and Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
via Class II and III bike facilities along Hillsdale Boulevard. To access Downtown using Palm Avenue, 
bicyclists must cross El Camino Real and ride approximately half a mile before reaching a bike lane 
north of South Boulevard. The Palm Avenue route offers no protected bikeways to connect between 
the site and the Hayward Park Caltrain Station. 
Due to a mixture of traffic speed, volume, and presence of on-street vehicular parking, Alameda de las 
Pulgas, Palm Avenue, and 20th Avenue are all rated as ‘high-stress’ streets by the April 2020 San Mateo 
Bicycle Master Plan. ‘High-stress’ streets are defined as roads which would be uncomfortable or 
unappealing to all cyclists other than those with high levels of experience and risk tolerance or those 
traveling by e-bike. Figure 6 shows the stress level of the surrounding area, with the immediate project 
area denoted by purple box. 
In terms of nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at 
nearby Caltrain Stations as well as the Hillsdale Shopping Center and its surrounding area. BikeLink 
allows bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased 
online or at nearby vendors. There are four lockers at the nearest Caltrain Station (Hayward Park), 24 
at the Downtown station, and 28 around the Hillsdale Shopping Center. Additionally, four free-to-use 
public bike repair stations are located within 1.5 miles of the project site. These stations are located at 
San Mateo City Hall, the San Mateo Main Library, Paddock Park, and the downtown San Mateo Caltrain 
station. 
Source: WalkScore.com 
Figure 4. 20-minute pedestrian shed for 1919 O’Farrell Street

--- page 217 ---
7 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
Figure 5. Existing Bicycle Network 
 
Figure 6. Level of Traffic Stress 
 
 
Source: Toole Design Group (on behalf of City of San Mateo, Bicycle Master Plan 2020)

--- page 218 ---
8 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan  
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020 and serves as a 
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming 
years. The Plan includes three high-priority recommendations relevant to the 1919 O’Farrell Street 
Project site: 
• 
20th Avenue is slated for a Class II bike lane between Alameda de las Pulgas and El Camino Real and 
a Class III bike boulevard between El Camino Real and Palm Avenue.  
• 
Palm Avenue is prioritized for an upgrade from an existing Class III bike route to Class II bike lane 
from South Boulevard to 25th Avenue. 
• 
A Class III bike boulevard is proposed to stretch from 20th Avenue just south of the site along 
Isabelle Avenue, 22nd Avenue, and Hacienda Street to 39th Avenue.  
 
Transit Services 
The project site is located within a 0.8-mile walk of the 
Hayward Park Caltrain Station and is also served directly by 
the Campus Drive (CAM) Shuttle, which connects to the 
Hillsdale Caltrain station, providing access to north-south 
regional travel, as well as two San Mateo County Transit 
District (SamTrans) bus routes. 
Walkscore.com gives the project site a Transit score of 44 / 
100, which they classify as “some transit – a few nearby 
public transportation options.” This score is expected to 
improve with the re-opening of the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station in Spring 2021, as this station will feature express 
Caltrain service not available at the Hayward Park Station. 
The 20-minute transit shed is fairly expansive along the 
north-south Caltrain route, as shown in Figure 7.  
Campus Drive (CAM) Shuttle 
The Campus Drive (CAM) Shuttle, which is operated by San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand 
Management Agency Commute.org, connects the project site to the Hillsdale Caltrain station and the 
San Mateo Medical Center as shown in Figure 8. As seen in Table 3, the service is available Monday to 
Friday during commute hours and does not operate on holidays. The AM trips have been reduced from 
four per day to three, due to COVID-19.  
Source: Walkscore.com 
Figure 7. 20-minute Transit-shed for 1919 O’Farrell Street

--- page 219 ---
9 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Table 3. CAM Shuttle Accessibility 
Category 
CAM Shuttle Attributes 
Frequency 
3 trips in the AM and 5 trips in the 
PM serving the site, every 45-60 
minutes 
Closest Stop 
330 W 20th Avenue (City Hall) 
Distance to Closest 
Stop 
Less than ¼ mile 
Cost 
Free and open to all 
Caltrain 
Caltrain connects the project site to San Francisco to the North as well as San Jose and Gilroy to the 
South. As shown in Figure 9, the project site is near both the Hayward Park and Hillsdale stations, 
which can be accessed via bike, walk, transit and car.  
Although Hillsdale Station is currently closed for construction, a new station opening in 2021 will be 
equipped with a Park and Ride lot. Characteristics of each station are included in Table 4.       
Table 4. Caltrain Station Accessibility 
*The CAM Shuttle is currently detoured to Belmont Station due to the 
temporary closure of Hillsdale Station during construction
Category 
Hayward Park 
Station 
New Hillsdale 
Station (post-
reopening) 
Frequency 
Hourly service 
during peak 
Every 15 minutes 
during peak 
Walking Distance 
to Station 
0.8 miles 
1.0 miles 
Access 
Park and ride lot, 
bike racks, and San 
Mateo BikeLink 
Park and ride lot, 
bike racks, and 
CAM Shuttle* 
Cost 
$3.20 - $10+ 
depending on 
distance 
$3.20 - $10+ 
depending on 
distance 
Source: Commute.org 
Source: Google Maps 
Figure 8. CAM shuttle route 
Figure 9. Caltrain stations near the project site

--- page 220 ---
10 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) 
The Millbrae BART station is accessible to the project site via car and transit as shown in Figure 10. 
BART connects the site to the wider Bay Area including San Francisco, East Bay, San Jose and 
Richmond. There are 1,200 parking spots available at the station for individuals and carpoolers who 
park and ride. The service is available Monday to Friday before 9 pm as described in Table 5. 
The station is also accessible by Caltrain although not as convenient as it would require two transfers. 
Additionally, the SamTrans ECR bus route is a direct connection to the Millbrae station. 
Table 5. BART Station Accessibility 
 
* Refer to the BART Fare calculator for more info 
Category 
BART Attributes 
Frequency 
30 minutes  
(M-F before 9 PM) 
Closest Station 
Millbrae 
Distance to Closest 
Station 
8.4 miles 
Cost 
$4.25+ depending on 
distance* 
Source: Google Maps 
Figure 10. Route to BART Station

--- page 221 ---
11 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
SamTrans 
There are five SamTrans routes accessible to the project site within a 10-minute walk, which are described in Table 
6. Additionally, routes 251/256 are located within one mile of the project site and connect Hillsdale to Foster City. 
Each SamTrans bus is equipped with bus bike racks that hold up to three bikes and trips cost $2.25 in cash or via 
mobile app or $2.05 if a Clipper card is being used. 
Table 6. SamTrans Routes with stops within 0.5 miles of the project site 
SamTrans 
Route # 
Hours of Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance to 
Closest Stop 
Route Details 
ECR 
Daily – 4 AM to midnight 
15 minutes 
El Camino 
Real and 
20th 
0.4 miles/ 8-
minute walk 
Connecting Daly City 
BART Station to Palo Alto 
Transit Center 
250 
Weekdays – 6 AM to 10 
PM Weekends – 9 AM to 
6 PM  
30 minutes* 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas & 
W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 
10-minute 
walk 
Connecting the College 
of San Mateo to 
downtown San Mateo 
397 
Daily – All night bus 
running between 
midnight and 6 AM 
60 minutes 
El Camino 
Real and 
20th 
0.4 miles / 
8-minute 
walk 
Connecting Palo Alto 
Transit Center to the 
Embarcadero 
294 
Daily – 6 AM to 9 PM 
60 minutes 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas & 
W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 
10-minute 
walk 
Connecting Hillsdale to 
Half Moon Bay 
295 
Weekdays – 6 AM to 5 
PM 
120 minutes 
 
Alameda de 
las Pulgas & 
W. 20th 
Avenue 
0.5 miles / 
10-minute 
walk 
Connecting Redwood 
City to San Mateo. 
*Effective January 17, 2021 
Nearby Destinations 
There are several attractions in the project vicinity that residents may visit regularly. Some of these attractions 
are detailed below and will likely be considered in the development of the final TDM plan. 
Shopping 
There are five shopping destinations within one mile of the project site that offer a large variety of retail and 
dining options.  
• 
A shopping center located at the northwestern corner of 20th Avenue and El Camino Real (0.4 miles away 
by foot) provides access to a Japanese grocery store, a fabric store, and two fast-casual restaurants.  
• 
A similar shopping center on the northeastern corner of 20th Avenue and El Camino Real (0.5 miles away 
by foot) offers a diner and fast food.  
• 
The Borel Square Shopping Center (0.7 miles away by foot) has a pharmacy, gym and additional fast-casual 
food options. There are also a number of stand-alone shopping options along El Camino Real and 20th 
Avenue.  
• 
A shopping area surrounding the corner of 17th Avenue and Ivy Street, including a major grocery store, 
banks, and restaurants (0.8 miles away by foot). 
• 
A large retail and restaurant district located along 25th Avenue between Hacienda Street and El Camino 
Real, including a post office and a seasonal farmers’ market (0.8 miles away by foot).

--- page 222 ---
12 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
Additionally, the Hillsdale Shopping Center is located at El Camino Real and 31st Avenue, approximately 1.5 
miles away by foot. The center offers a large number of shopping options including a popular grocery store, 
department stores, numerous retail stores and a variety of eateries.  
Schools and Child Care 
About 20 percent of the population in the residential area (census tract) surrounding the project site have 
children under 18 years of age, suggesting that families will need to add school or childcare trips into their 
schedule. Since school drop offs and pickups can lead to significant traffic and congestion twice daily, we will 
explore synergies with existing Safe Routes to School (SRTS) programs and trip reduction strategies in the final 
TDM Plan.  
Childcare Centers 
There is one childcare center located within a six-minute walk of the project site.  
• 
Little Bloom Early Child Development Center (0.2 miles away) is a short walk east on 20th Avenue. 
Nearby Schools 
There are over a dozen schools within two miles’ travel of the project site. The closest are listed in Table 7. 
Table 7. Proximate School Distances 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance 
in miles 
Beresford Elementary School* 
1.0 
Abbott Middle School* 
1.7 
Aragon High School* 
1.0 
Junipero Serra High School 
0.3 
The Carey School 
0.6 
The Burkard School 
0.8 
Saint Gregory’s Catholic School 
0.9 
Meadow Heights Elementary School 
1.0 
Borel Middle School 
1.1 
Centennial Montessori Elementary School 
1.2 
The Nueva School, San Mateo Campus 
1.2 
Baywood Elementary School 
1.4 
Fiesta Garden International School 
1.4 
*Assigned public schools for 1919 O’Farrell St.  
The 1919 O’Farrell Street Project site is zoned for and is within walking and biking distance from Beresford 
Elementary School, which is included in the County’s Safe Routes to School program. Safe Routes to School San 
Mateo County promotes biking and walking to school for children countywide. The program focuses on 
improving the health, well-being, and safety of children as well as reducing traffic congestion and emissions 
caused by school-related travel. The program is led by a network of implementors and volunteers, often 
parents and PTA members. Figure 11 shows the scope of this Safe Routes to School program within a half mile 
radius, including suggested walking and biking routes to Beresford Elementary.

--- page 223 ---
13 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
 
 
Source: San Mateo County 
College of San Mateo 
The College of San Mateo is 2.5 miles away and within a 30-minute bike ride of the project site. However, 
topography may discourage bicycling to this destination, as there is significant elevation gain needed to reach 
the campus. 
Parks 
The project site is within one mile of two parks, Trinta Park and Beresford Park, and within one mile of another 
park currently under development, Borel Park. 
• 
Trinta Park (0.8 miles away by foot) is located on the other side of El Camino Real and offers a baseball 
diamond, half basketball court, children’s playground and restrooms.  
• 
Beresford Park (1 mile away by foot) is south of the project site. It features tennis courts, three baseball 
diamonds, a playground structure, a skatepark, a full basketball court, a community garden, bocce courts, 
public restrooms, and picnic areas. It is also located directly adjacent to the Beresford Recreation Center, a 
community hub offering preschool activities and after-school care as well as youth and adult classes. 
• 
Borel Park is on a site (0.9 miles away by foot) that is currently under construction as part of the Fire 
Station 25 relocation project. As part of this project, the City of San Mateo has committed to creating a 
1.1-acre park adjacent to the new fire station.   
Figure 11. Safe Routes to School map for Beresford Elementary School

--- page 224 ---
14 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Available TDM Services 
Commute.org Incentives 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their resources are 
available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and employees of the project site 
will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those commuting within the County and in the 
surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a regional clearinghouse for all transportation and 
commuting-related information. They also provide the following services: 
• 
CAM Shuttle: Commute.org manages the CAM Shuttle connecting the Hillsdale station to the project site 
on Campus Drive. It serves as a free first/last mile connector to Caltrain. There is currently one vehicle on 
the route that operates at a 45 to 60-minute frequency.  
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free ‘try transit’ program that allows individuals to 
request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze Carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards worth up to 
$100.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can be 
reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.  
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to residents and 
commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers and other sites, including 
residential properties, within San Mateo County. They can be 60, 75, or 90 minutes in length depending on 
what is ideal for the requesting party and include time for Q&A. 
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in the County with 
incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. The program was active until December 2020 
but Commute.org is likely to continue providing a bike incentive past December if funding is available. 
E-Bike Rebate  
An e-bike rebate was recently approved by Peninsula Clean Energy in partnership with Commute.org. The 
program will be available for three years and offers a rebate of up to 80% purchase price ($800 cap) for those 
within 400% of the federal poverty limit.  
Travel Trends 
The travel trends and insights detailed in this section are based on data associated with the project’s census 
tract (6074.00). Census tracts are similar to neighborhoods and established by the Census Bureau for the 
purpose of analyzing populations. Each census tract typically has 2,500 to 8,000 people. 
Demographic Insights 
The project site is located within census tract 6074.00, which has a population of 5,017 people. Those who live 
in this tract tend to be young families with children or never-married individuals who have high levels of 
education and household incomes. A majority, 59%, of the households in the census tract live in multi-unit 
buildings and 53% are renters. The demographic information in Table 8 and Table 9 is collected from Census 
and American Communities Survey (ACS) data and will provide insight into the residents’ needs and behaviors.

--- page 225 ---
15 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Table 8. Demographic data for census tract 6074 
Category 
Characteristics 
Share 
Age 
Under 18 
21% 
18 to 64 
62% 
Over 65 
17% 
Education 
College degree or higher 
62.2% 
Home 
ownership 
Residents rent the home they live in 
53% 
Household  
 
Married couple families 
59% 
Number of households 
1,990 
Persons per household 
2.4 
Median household income (35% with a household income above 
$150,000) 
$100,500 
Race 
White alone 
42.5% 
Asian alone  
26.8% 
Hispanic or Latino (of any race) 
23% 
Black or African American alone 
1.1% 
Languages 
spoken 
Percentage of limited English-speaking households  
9.1% 
 
Table 9. Selected household characteristics by home ownership for census tract 6074 
Characteristics 
Homeowners 
Renters 
Married couple families 
60.1% 
39.9% 
Number of households 
934 
1,056 
Persons per household 
1.3 
1.1 
Median household income (35% with a household income above $150,000) 
$154,167 
$59,022 
Median household income within ZIP code (94403) 
$152,708 
$99,781 
 
Commute Insights 
American Communities Survey data from 2018 indicates that a majority (62%) of those who live within the 
census tract commute to work by driving alone (Figure 12). The data also shows that carpool and transit are 
commonly used as well. The mean commute time across all travel modes is 31.5 minutes.

--- page 226 ---
16 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Figure 12. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6074 
Source: ACS 2018 5-year, Census.gov (Universe: workers aged 16 and up) 
As shown in Table 10, residents of the area commute to a wide variety of locations with approximately 18% 
commuting to San Francisco, 14% commuting within the City of San Mateo and almost 7% commuting to 
Redwood City.  
Table 10. Where people living in census tract 6074 worked in 2017 
Job Locations 
Count 
Share 
San Francisco, CA 
476 
18.4% 
San Mateo, CA 
355 
13.7% 
Redwood City, CA 
168 
6.5% 
San Jose, CA 
133 
5.1% 
Palo Alto, CA 
114 
4.4% 
Burlingame, CA 
93 
3.6% 
Mountain View, CA 
92 
3.6% 
Other Locations 
1,155 
44.7% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
2,586 
100% 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 13, depicts that about 2,493 individuals 
commute out of the area and 3,140 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. 93 individuals 
both live and work inside the same census tract. 
Figure 13. Inflow/Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6074

--- page 227 ---
17 of 17 
www.steergroup.com 
 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Next Steps 
A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) will be prepared to identify the project’s vehicular trip generation and potential 
traffic impacts. In conjunction with the TIA, a TDM Plan will be developed to mitigate traffic impacts, reduce 
VMT, and promote sustainable travel through the provision of multi-modal infrastructure and amenities on 
site. 
This Site Assessment will be used in creating a Draft TDM Plan. The TDM Plan will detail strategies and 
programs that can be used to encourage sustainable transportation to, from, and around the site.  
 
Review of site 
conditions, 
including: 
-physical attributes
-available TDM 
services, 
-travel trends 
Site Assessment
Development of TDM 
strategies, including: 
-education & 
incentives,
-services & 
programming, 
-monitoring & 
reporting.
Draft TDM Plan
Finalization of 
the TDM Plan 
following input 
from the City 
Final TDM Plan

--- page 228 ---
Control Information 
Prepared by 
Prepared for 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
The City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
Steer project/proposal number 
Client contract/project number 
23946201 
 
 
Author/originator 
Reviewer/approver 
Puja Thomas-Patel 
Jenny Hong 
Julia Wean 
 
Other contributors 
Distribution 
Nathan Pope 
Kavina Patel 
Hank Kaplan 
Jayro Queme 
Client:  
City of 
San 
Mateo 
Steer: 
 
Version control/issue number 
Date 
1.0 
2.0 
3.0 
4.0 
5.0 
Final 
December 30, 2020 
January 29, 2021 
March 12, 2021 
March 17, 2021 
March 23, 2021 
April 8, 2021

--- page 229 ---
steergroup.com

--- page 230 ---
1919 O’FARRELL STREET 
NOISE AND VIBRATION ASSESSMENT  
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
 
May 26, 2021 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
 
Somer Smith, AICP 
Associate Planner 
Community Development Department 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Prepared by: 
 
Heather Bruce 
 
 
 
429 E. Cotati Avenue 
Cotati, CA 94931  
(707) 794-0400 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I&R Project: 21-031

--- page 231 ---
2 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The project is located at 1919 O’Farrell Street in the Beresford Park neighborhood in the City of 
San Mateo. The project plans to redevelop a .71-acre site by demolishing an existing one-story 
office building to construct a four-story, 49-unit multi-family apartment community with 
subterranean parking. 
 
This report evaluates the Project’s potential to result in significant noise impacts with respect to 
applicable California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines. The report is divided into 
three sections: 1) the Setting Section provides a brief description of the fundamentals of 
environmental noise and vibration, summarizes applicable regulatory criteria, and discusses the 
results of the ambient noise monitoring survey completed to document existing noise conditions; 
2) the General Plan Consistency section discusses land use compatibility utilizing noise policies 
in the City’s General Plan; and, 3) the Impacts and Mitigation Measures Section describes the 
significance criteria used to evaluate project impacts, provides a discussion of each project impact, 
and presents mitigation measures, where necessary, to reduce the impacts to less than significant. 
 
SETTING 
 
Fundamentals of Environmental Noise 
Noise may be defined as unwanted sound. Noise is usually objectionable because it is disturbing 
or annoying. The objectionable nature of sound could be caused by its pitch or its loudness. Pitch 
is the height or depth of a tone or sound, depending on the relative rapidity (frequency) of the 
vibrations by which it is produced. Higher pitched signals sound louder to humans than sounds 
with a lower pitch. Loudness is intensity of sound waves combined with the reception 
characteristics of the ear. Intensity may be compared with the height of an ocean wave in that it is 
a measure of the amplitude of the sound wave.  
 
In addition to the concepts of pitch and loudness, there are several noise measurement scales which 
are used to describe noise in a particular location. A decibel (dB) is a unit of measurement which 
indicates the relative amplitude of a sound. The zero on the decibel scale is based on the lowest 
sound level that the healthy, unimpaired human ear can detect. Sound levels in decibels are 
calculated on a logarithmic basis. An increase of 10 decibels represents a ten-fold increase in 
acoustic energy, while 20 decibels is 100 times more intense, 30 decibels is 1,000 times more 
intense, etc. There is a relationship between the subjective noisiness or loudness of a sound and its 
intensity. Each 10 decibel increase in sound level is perceived as approximately a doubling of 
loudness over a fairly wide range of intensities. Technical terms are defined in Table 1.

--- page 232 ---
3 
 
TABLE 1 
Definition of Acoustical Terms Used in this Report 
Term 
Definition 
Decibel, dB 
A unit describing, the amplitude of sound, equal to 20 times the logarithm 
to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the 
reference pressure. The reference pressure for air is 20 micro Pascals.  
Sound Pressure Level 
Sound pressure is the sound force per unit area, usually expressed in micro 
Pascals (or 20 micro Newtons per square meter), where 1 Pascal is the 
pressure resulting from a force of 1 Newton exerted over an area of 1 square 
meter. The sound pressure level is expressed in decibels as 20 times the 
logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio between the pressures exerted by the 
sound to a reference sound pressure (e. g., 20 micro Pascals). Sound 
pressure level is the quantity that is directly measured by a sound level 
meter.  
Frequency, Hz 
The number of complete pressure fluctuations per second above and below 
atmospheric pressure. Normal human hearing is between 20 Hz and 20,000 
Hz. Infrasonic sounds are below 20 Hz and Ultrasonic sounds are above 
20,000 Hz.  
A-Weighted Sound 
Level, dBA 
The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter 
using the A-weighting filter network. The A-weighting filter de-emphasizes 
the very low and very high frequency components of the sound in a manner 
similar to the frequency response of the human ear and correlates well with 
subjective reactions to noise.  
Equivalent Noise Level, 
Leq  
The average A-weighted noise level during the measurement period.  
Lmax, Lmin 
The maximum and minimum A-weighted noise level during the 
measurement period.  
L01, L10, L50, L90 
The A-weighted noise levels that are exceeded 1%, 10%, 50%, and 90% of 
the time during the measurement period.  
Day/Night Noise Level, 
Ldn or DNL 
The average A-weighted noise level during a 24-hour day, obtained after 
addition of 10 decibels to levels measured in the night between 10:00 pm and 
7:00 am.  
Community Noise 
Equivalent Level, 
CNEL 
The average A-weighted noise level during a 24-hour day, obtained after 
addition of 5 decibels in the evening from 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm and after 
addition of 10 decibels to sound levels measured in the night between 10:00 
pm and 7:00 am.  
Ambient Noise Level 
The composite of noise from all sources near and far. The normal or existing 
level of environmental noise at a given location.   
 
 
 
Intrusive 
That noise which intrudes over and above the existing ambient noise at a 
given location. The relative intrusiveness of a sound depends upon its 
amplitude, duration, frequency, and time of occurrence and tonal or 
informational content as well as the prevailing ambient noise level.  
Source:  Handbook of Acoustical Measurements and Noise Control, Harris, 1998.

--- page 233 ---
4 
 
There are several methods of characterizing sound. The most common in California is the A-
weighted sound level (dBA). This scale gives greater weight to the frequencies of sound to which 
the human ear is most sensitive. Representative outdoor and indoor noise levels in units of dBA 
are shown in Table 2. Because sound levels can vary markedly over a short period of time, a 
method for describing either the average character of the sound or the statistical behavior of the 
variations must be utilized. Most commonly, environmental sounds are described in terms of an 
average level that has the same acoustical energy as the summation of all the time-varying events. 
This energy-equivalent sound/noise descriptor is called Leq. The most common averaging period 
is hourly, but Leq can describe any series of noise events of arbitrary duration.  
 
TABLE 2 
Typical Noise Levels in the Environment 
 
Common Outdoor Activities 
 
Noise Level (dBA) 
 
Common Indoor Activities 
 
110 dBA 
Rock band 
Jet fly-over at 1,000 feet 
 
 
 
100 dBA 
 
Gas lawn mower at 3 feet 
 
 
 
90 dBA
 
Diesel truck at 50 feet at 50 mph 
 
Food blender at 3 feet 
 
80 dBA 
Garbage disposal at 3 feet 
Noisy urban area, daytime 
 
 
Gas lawn mower, 100 feet 
70 dBA
Vacuum cleaner at 10 feet 
Commercial area 
 
Normal speech at 3 feet 
Heavy traffic at 300 feet 
60 dBA
 
 
 
Large business office 
Quiet urban daytime 
50 dBA 
Dishwasher in next room 
 
 
 
Quiet urban nighttime 
40 dBA 
Theater, large conference room 
Quiet suburban nighttime 
 
 
 
30 dBA 
Library 
Quiet rural nighttime 
 
Bedroom at night, concert hall 
(background) 
 
20 dBA 
 
 
 
Broadcast/recording studio 
 
10 dBA 
 
 
0 dBA 
 
Source: Technical Noise Supplement (TeNS), California Department of Transportation, September 2013.

--- page 234 ---
5 
 
The scientific instrument used to measure noise is the sound level meter. Sound level meters can 
accurately measure environmental noise levels to within about plus or minus 1 dBA. Various 
computer models are used to predict environmental noise levels from sources, such as roadways 
and airports. The accuracy of the predicted models depends upon the distance the receptor is from 
the noise source. Close to the noise source, the models are accurate to within about plus or minus 
1 to 2 dBA.  
 
Since the sensitivity to noise increases during the evening and at night -- because excessive noise 
interferes with the ability to sleep -- 24-hour descriptors have been developed that incorporate 
artificial noise penalties added to quiet-time noise events. The Community Noise Equivalent Level 
(CNEL) is a measure of the cumulative noise exposure in a community, with a 5 dB penalty added 
to evening (7:00 pm - 10:00 pm) and a 10 dB addition to nocturnal (10:00 pm - 7:00 am) noise 
levels. The Day/Night Average Sound Level (DNL or Ldn) is essentially the same as CNEL, with 
the exception that the evening time period is dropped and all occurrences during this three-hour 
period are grouped into the daytime period. 
 
Effects of Noise 
Sleep and Speech Interference 
 
The thresholds for speech interference indoors are about 45 dBA if the noise is steady and above 
55 dBA if the noise is fluctuating. Outdoors the thresholds are about 15 dBA higher. Steady noises 
of sufficient intensity (above 35 dBA) and fluctuating noise levels above about 45 dBA have been 
shown to affect sleep. Interior residential standards for multi-family dwellings are set by the State 
of California at 45 dBA Ldn. Typically, the highest steady traffic noise level during the daytime is 
about equal to the Ldn and nighttime levels are 10 dBA lower. The standard is designed for sleep 
and speech protection and most jurisdictions apply the same criterion for all residential uses. 
Typical structural attenuation is 12-17 dBA with open windows. With closed windows in good 
condition, the noise attenuation factor is around 20 dBA for an older structure and 25 dBA for a 
newer dwelling. Sleep and speech interference is therefore possible when exterior noise levels are 
about 57-62 dBA Ldn with open windows and 65-70 dBA Ldn if the windows are closed. Levels of 
55-60 dBA are common along collector streets and secondary arterials, while 65-70 dBA is a 
typical value for a primary/major arterial. Levels of 75-80 dBA are normal noise levels at the first 
row of development outside a freeway right-of-way. In order to achieve an acceptable interior 
noise environment, bedrooms facing secondary roadways need to be able to have their windows 
closed, those facing major roadways and freeways typically need special glass windows. 
 
Annoyance 
 
Attitude surveys are used for measuring the annoyance felt in a community for noises intruding 
into homes or affecting outdoor activity areas. In these surveys, it was determined that the causes 
for annoyance include interference with speech, radio and television, house vibrations, and 
interference with sleep and rest. The Ldn as a measure of noise has been found to provide a valid 
correlation of noise level and the percentage of people annoyed. People have been asked to judge 
the annoyance caused by aircraft noise and ground transportation noise. There continues to be 
disagreement about the relative annoyance of these different sources. When measuring the

--- page 235 ---
6 
 
percentage of the population highly annoyed, the threshold for ground vehicle noise is about 50 
dBA Ldn. At a Ldn of about 60 dBA, approximately 12 percent of the population is highly annoyed. 
When the Ldn increases to 70 dBA, the percentage of the population highly annoyed increases to 
about 25-30 percent of the population. There is, therefore, an increase of about 2 percent per dBA 
between a Ldn of 60-70 dBA. Between a Ldn of 70-80 dBA, each additional decibel increases the 
percentage of the population highly annoyed by about 3 percent. People appear to respond more 
adversely to aircraft noise. When the Ldn is 60 dBA, approximately 30-35 percent of the population 
is believed to be highly annoyed. Each decibel increase to 70 dBA adds about 3 percentage points 
to the number of people highly annoyed. Above 70 dBA, each decibel increase results in about a 
4 percent increase in the percentage of the population highly annoyed. 
 
Fundamentals of Groundborne Vibration  
 
Ground vibration consists of rapidly fluctuating motions or waves with an average motion of zero. 
Several different methods are typically used to quantify vibration amplitude. One method is the 
Peak Particle Velocity (PPV). The PPV is defined as the maximum instantaneous positive or 
negative peak of the vibration wave. In this report, a PPV descriptor with units of mm/sec or in/sec 
is used to evaluate construction generated vibration for building damage and human complaints. 
Table 3 displays the reactions of people and the effects on buildings that continuous or frequent 
intermittent vibration levels produce. The guidelines in Table 3 represent syntheses of vibration 
criteria for human response and potential damage to buildings resulting from construction 
vibration. 
 
Construction activities can cause vibration that varies in intensity depending on several factors. 
The use of pile driving and vibratory compaction equipment typically generates the highest 
construction related groundborne vibration levels. Because of the impulsive nature of such 
activities, the use of the PPV descriptor has been routinely used to measure and assess groundborne 
vibration and almost exclusively to assess the potential of vibration to cause damage and the degree 
of annoyance for humans.  
 
The two primary concerns with construction-induced vibration, the potential to damage a structure 
and the potential to interfere with the enjoyment of life, are evaluated against different vibration 
limits. Human perception to vibration varies with the individual and is a function of physical 
setting and the type of vibration. Persons exposed to elevated ambient vibration levels, such as 
people in an urban environment, may tolerate a higher vibration level.  
 
Structural damage can be classified as cosmetic only, such as paint flaking or minimal extension 
of cracks in building surfaces; minor, including limited surface cracking; or major, that may 
threaten the structural integrity of the building. Safe vibration limits that can be applied to assess 
the potential for damaging a structure vary by researcher. The damage criteria presented in Table 
3 include several categories for ancient, fragile, and historic structures, the types of structures most 
at risk to damage. Most buildings are included within the categories ranging from “Historic and 
some old buildings” to “Modern industrial/commercial buildings”. Construction-induced vibration 
that can be detrimental to the building is very rare and has only been observed in instances where 
the structure is at a high state of disrepair and the construction activity occurs immediately adjacent 
to the structure.

--- page 236 ---
7 
 
 
The annoyance levels shown in Table 3 should be interpreted with care since vibration may be 
found to be annoying at lower levels than those shown, depending on the level of activity or the 
sensitivity of the individual. To sensitive individuals, vibrations approaching the threshold of 
perception can be annoying. Low-level vibrations frequently cause irritating secondary vibration, 
such as a slight rattling of windows, doors, or stacked dishes. The rattling sound can give rise to 
exaggerated vibration complaints, even though there is very little risk of actual structural damage. 
 
  
TABLE 3 
Reaction of People and Damage to Buildings from Continuous or Frequent 
Intermittent Vibration Levels 
Velocity Level, 
PPV (in/sec) 
Human Reaction 
Effect on Buildings 
0.01 
Barely perceptible 
No effect 
0.04 
Distinctly perceptible 
Vibration unlikely to cause damage of any type to any 
structure 
0.08 
Distinctly perceptible to 
strongly perceptible 
Recommended upper level of the vibration to which 
ruins and ancient monuments should be subjected 
0.1 
Strongly perceptible  
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to fragile 
buildings with no risk of damage to most buildings 
0.25 
Strongly perceptible to severe 
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to historic 
and some old buildings. 
0.3 
Strongly perceptible to severe 
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to older 
residential structures 
0.5 
Severe - Vibrations considered 
unpleasant  
Threshold at which there is a risk of damage to new 
residential and modern commercial/industrial structures 
Source: Transportation and Construction Vibration Guidance Manual, California Department of Transportation, 
April 2020.  
 
Regulatory Background 
 
The project would be subject to noise-related regulations, plans and policies established by the 
State of California and the City of San Mateo. Applicable planning documents include Appendix 
G of the CEQA Guidelines, the San Mateo General Plan, and the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
Regulations, plans, and policies presented within these documents form the basis of the 
significance criteria used to assess project impacts.  
 
State CEQA Guidelines. CEQA contains guidelines to evaluate the significance of effects of 
environmental noise attributable to a proposed project. Under CEQA, noise impacts would be 
considered significant if the project would result in: 
 
(a) 
Generation of a substantial temporary or permanent increase in ambient noise levels 
in the vicinity of the project in excess of standards established in the local general 
plan or noise ordinance, or applicable standards of other agencies;

--- page 237 ---
8 
 
(b) 
Generation of excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne noise levels; 
 
(c) 
For a project located within the vicinity of a private airstrip or an airport land use 
plan or where such a plan has not been adopted within two miles of a public airport 
or public use airport, if the project would expose people residing or working in the 
project area to excessive noise levels. 
 
Of these guidelines, items (a) and (b) are applicable to the proposed project. The project is not 
located in the vicinity of a public airport or private airstrip; therefore, checklist item (c) is not 
carried forward in this analysis. 
 
2019 California Building Code, Title 24, Part 2. The current version of the California Building 
Code (CBC) requires interior noise levels attributable to exterior environmental noise sources to 
be limited to a level not exceeding 45 dBA Ldn/CNEL in any habitable room.  
 
City of San Mateo General Plan: The Noise Element of the City of San Mateo General Plan sets 
forth goals and policies to control environmental noise and protect citizens from excessive noise 
exposure. The goals and policies relevant to this project are summarized below: 
 
GOAL 1: Protect “noise sensitive” land uses from excessive noise levels.  
POLICIES: 
N 1.1: Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and interior 
noise insulation for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 that have an exterior 
noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1. The maximum interior noise 
level shall not exceed 45 dB (Ldn) in any habitable rooms.  
N 1.2: Exterior Noise Level Standard. Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, play areas, 
and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the enjoyment of residents) 
that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1. Require 
an acoustical analysis that uses peak hour Leq for new parks and play areas. Require a 
feasibility analysis of noise reduction measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate 
necessary mitigation measures into residential project design to minimize common open 
space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 67 dB (Ldn) for residential 
uses and should not exceed 65 dB (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park uses.  
GOAL 2:  Minimize unnecessary, annoying and unhealthful noise.  
POLICIES: 
N 2.1: Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of City’s existing noise 
control ordinance: (a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of 
normal sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and (b) restricts the hours of 
construction to minimize noise impact.

--- page 238 ---
9 
 
N 2.2: Minimize Noise Impact. Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables N-1 and 
N-2 from adverse impacts caused by noise generated on-site by new developments. 
Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize noise 
impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB (Ldn) or greater at the common 
property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels.  
N 2.3: Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise sensitive” 
in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise generated by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to 
minimize noise impacts. Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dB (Ldn) or 
above at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
N 2.4: Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting from traffic 
increases. Promote the installation of noise barriers along highways where “noise-
sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 are adversely impacted by unacceptable noise levels 
[60 dB (Ldn) or above]. Require adequate noise mitigation to be incorporated into the 
widening of SR 92 and US 101. Accept noise increases on El Camino Real at existing 
development, and require new multi-family development to provide common open space 
having a maximum exterior noise level of 67 dB (Ldn).

--- page 239 ---
10 
 
 
1 These guidelines are derived from the California Department of Health Services, Guidelines for the Preparation and 
Content of the Noise Element of the General Plan, 2003. The State Guidelines have been modified to reflect San 
Mateo's preference for distinct noise compatibility categories and to better reflect local land-use and noise conditions. 
It is intended that these guidelines be utilized to evaluate the suitability of land-use changes only and not to determine 
cumulative noise impacts. Land uses other than those classified as being “noise sensitive” are exempt from these 
compatibility guidelines. 
2 Normally Acceptable – Specified land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any buildings involved are 
of normal conventional construction, without any special noise insulation requirements. 
3 Conditionally Acceptable – New construction should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis of the noise 
reduction requirement is conducted and needed noise insulation features included in the design. 
4 Normally Unacceptable – New construction should be discouraged. If new construction or development does 
proceed, a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements must be made and needed noise insulation features 
included in the design. 
* Average Sound Level (Leq) for peak hour.

--- page 240 ---
11 
 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code: The Noise Regulations of the San Mateo Municipal Code, 
Chapter 7.30 are set forth to protect the inhabitants of the City against all forms of nuisances.  
 
Section 7.30.040 Maximum Permissible Sound Levels. It is unlawful for any person to operate or 
cause to be operated any source of sound at any location within the city or allow the creation of 
any noise on property owned, leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which 
causes the noise level when measured on any other property to exceed: 
 
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a cumulative 
period of more than thirty minutes in any hour; 
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than fifteen minutes 
in any hour; 
(3) The noise level standard plus ten dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes in 
any hour; 
(4) The noise level standard plus fifteen dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute 
in any hour; or 
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus twenty dB for any 
period of time. 
 
If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table 7.30.040, then 
the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of this section. In such cases, the 
noise levels for purposes of subsections (2) through (5) of this section shall be increased in five 
dB increments above the ambient. 
 
Table 7.30.040: Noise Level Standards 
Noise Zone 
Time Period 
Noise Level, dBA 
Noise Zone 1  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
50 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
60 
Noise Zone 2  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
55 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
60 
Noise Zone 3  
10 p.m.--7 a.m. 
60 
7 a.m.--10 p.m. 
65 
Noise Zone 4 
Anytime 
70 
 
Section 7.30.060 Special Provisions. Construction, alteration, repair, or land development 
activities authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed at the following times: 
• Weekdays: between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. 
• Saturdays: between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
• Sundays and Holidays: between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.  
• Or at other such hours as authorized or restricted by the permit, so long as they meet the 
following conditions: 
 
1. No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a 
distance of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet as 
possible.

--- page 241 ---
12 
 
2. The noise level outside of any point outside the property plane of the project shall not 
exceed 90 dBA. 
 
Existing Noise Environment 
 
The project site, shown in Figure 1, is located south of SR 92. Existing uses in the vicinity of the 
project include multi-family residential uses bordering the site to the east with office and public 
use to the west and office and multi-family to the south. More distant single-family residences are 
located to the west and south.  
 
FIGURE 1 
Location of Project Site 
 
 
Source: Google Earth, 2021.  
 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the traffic volumes along the surrounding roadways were 
reduced and not representative of typical conditions. Therefore, a noise monitoring survey was not 
completed to document ambient noise levels. Instead, the existing noise environment was 
determined through noise modeling and review of traffic noise contours provided in the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report completed for the City of San Mateo General Plan (DEIR)1. The 
DEIR identifies the project site is within the <75 dBA Ldn contour. The contours assume an at-
grade roadway alignment with no intervening shielding.  
 
 
1 City of San Mateo, General Plan Update Draft Environmental Impact Report, July 2009, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5216/4_6-Noise  
N

--- page 242 ---
13 
 
Traffic volumes for segments of SR 92 in the vicinity of the project site were obtained from 
Caltrans via the Traffic Census Program2 and traffic volumes for O’Farrell Street were obtained 
from the project’s traffic study, completed by Fehr Peers. These volumes were used to model 
traffic noise at the site and were validated using the contour distances specified in the DEIR. 
Traffic noise was modeled using Federal Highway Administration Traffic Noise Model 2.5 
implemented in SoundPLAN 8.2. Sound PLAN is a three-dimensional noise modeling software 
that considers site geometry, the characteristics of noise sources, and shielding from structures, 
barriers, and terrain.  
 
Based on review of General Plan contours and SoundPLAN noise modeling, the existing noise 
environment at the project site is characterized primarily by vehicular traffic along SR 92. The 
project site is located approximately 60 feet south of the centerline of SR 92. Existing noise levels 
would range from 75 to 77 dBA Ldn at the northern setback of the proposed project. 
 
GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY ANALYSIS  
 
Noise and Land Use Compatibility Thresholds 
The Noise Element of the City of San Mateo General Plan sets forth goals and policies to control 
environmental noise and protect citizens from excessive noise exposure. The applicable policies 
were presented in detail in the Regulatory Background section and are summarized below for the 
proposed project:  
 
• The City of San Mateo’s “Normally Acceptable” exterior noise level objective is 59 dBA 
Ldn or less for residential land uses. Maximum exterior noise in multi-family outdoor 
activity areas intended for the use of residents should not exceed 67 dBA Ldn. 
 
• The City of San Mateo’s interior noise level limit is 45 dBA Ldn or less for residential land 
uses consistent with the requirements of the California Building Code. 
 
Future Exterior Noise Environment 
 
The future noise environment at the project site would continue to be dominated by vehicular 
traffic along SR 92. Secondary noise sources would include the occasional overhead aircraft and 
vehicle traffic along O’Farrell Street. Existing and future traffic conditions from the project’s 
traffic study were compared to estimate future traffic noise levels in the project vicinity. For 
purposes of estimating the worst-case scenario, the cumulative plus project traffic scenario was 
used to estimate future peak hour noise levels on O’Farrell Street. A standard growth rate of 1% 
per year over the next 19 years was assumed on SR 92. 
 
Future noise levels at the site are conservatively calculated to increase by up to 1 dBA by year 
2040. Therefore, the future day-night average noise level would be up to 78 dBA Ldn at the northern 
facade of the proposed building.  
 
2 Caltrans, Traffic Census Program: 2019 Traffic Volumes: Route 92-98, Accessed 4/7/2021, Available: 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/traffic-operations/census

--- page 243 ---
14 
 
 
The site plan proposed an outdoor use activity area on the first floor. While private patios and 
balconies are proposed throughout the project site, these small outdoor spaces are not evaluated as 
outdoor activity areas sensitive to noise. Industry practice is to apply the exterior noise threshold 
to common outdoor use areas in multi-family projects because these are the areas that are 
frequently used by residents. Small decks and patios associated with multi-family residential land 
uses are normally used for the storage of bicycles, barbecues, etc., and are rarely used by residents 
for outdoor enjoyment, particularly when adjacent to transportation-related noise sources. 
Residents desiring a quiet outdoor use area normally choose to use an interior courtyard or rooftop 
deck for quiet outdoor enjoyment as opposed to a balcony overlooking a busy roadway. 
 
The proposed courtyard would be located on the first floor. The courtyard would be shielded by 
the building itself from SR 92 to the north. Existing buildings would provide additional acoustic 
shielding to south and east. The center of the courtyard would be located approximately 100 feet 
from the centerline of O’Farrell Street to the west. At this distance, and assuming shielding from 
the proposed building, the future exterior noise levels at the proposed courtyard would be as high 
as 66 dBA Ldn which is “conditionally acceptable” and below the City’s maximum exterior noise 
standard of 67 dBA Ldn. Figure 2 depicts the SoundPLAN modeling roadway noise exposure 
contour map for cumulative plus project conditions at the proposed project site.  
 
FIGURE 2 
Cumulative Plus Project SoundPLAN Roadway Noise Modeling Results

--- page 244 ---
15 
 
Noise Insulation Features to Reduce Future Interior Noise Levels  
 
 
The following noise insulation features shall be incorporated into the proposed project to reduce 
interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less:  
 
• Provide a suitable form of forced-air mechanical ventilation, as determined by the local 
building official, for all residential and retail units, so that windows can be kept closed at 
the occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and achieve the interior noise standards. 
 
• Preliminary calculations indicate that residential units located along the northern building 
façade would require windows and doors with a minimum rating of 32 to 38 STC to meet 
the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn.  
 
• Residential units located along the eastern façade would require windows and doors with 
minimum STC rating of 28 to 36 to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn.  
 
• Residential units located along the western façade would require windows and doors with 
minimum STC rating of 28 to 36 to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn.  
 
• A qualified acoustical specialist shall prepare a detailed analysis of interior residential 
noise levels resulting from all exterior sources during the design phase pursuant to 
requirements set forth in the State Building Code. The study will also establish appropriate 
criteria for noise levels inside the commercial spaces affected by environmental noise. The 
study will review the final site plan, building elevations, and floor plans prior to 
construction and recommend building treatments to reduce residential interior noise levels 
to 45 dBA Ldn or lower. Treatments would include, but are not limited to, sound-rated 
windows and doors, sound-rated wall and window constructions, acoustical caulking, 
protected ventilation openings, etc. The specific determination of what noise insulation 
treatments are necessary shall be conducted on a unit-by-unit basis during final design of 
the project. Results of the analysis, including the description of the necessary noise control 
treatments, shall be submitted to the City, along with the building plans and approved 
design, prior to issuance of a building permit. 
 
The implementation of these noise insulation features would reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA 
Ldn or less within residential units.

--- page 245 ---
16 
 
 
NOISE IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES  
 
This section describes the significance criteria used to evaluate project impacts under CEQA, 
provides a discussion of each project impact, and presents mitigation measures, where necessary, 
to provide a compatible project in relation to adjacent land uses.  
 
Significance Criteria 
 
The following criteria were used to evaluate the significance of environmental noise resulting from 
the project: 
 
1. Temporary or Permanent Noise Increases in Excess of Established Standards. A 
significant impact would be identified if project construction or operations would result in 
a substantial temporary or permanent increase in ambient noise levels at sensitive receivers 
in excess of the local noise standards contained in the San Mateo General Plan or Municipal 
Code, as follows:  
a. Operational Noise in Excess of Standards. A significant noise impact would be 
identified if the project operations would generate noise levels that would exceed 
applicable noise standards presented in the San Mateo General Plan or Municipal 
Code. 
 
b. Permanent Noise Increase. A significant permanent noise increase would be 
identified if traffic generated by the project or project improvements/operations 
would substantially increase noise levels at sensitive receivers in the vicinity. The 
City of San Mateo defines a substantial increase to occur if the noise level increase 
is 3 dBA Ldn or greater. 
 
c. Temporary Noise Increase. A significant temporary noise increase would be 
identified if construction-related noise would result in noise levels exceeding the 
applicable noise standards presented in the San Mateo Municipal Code.  
 
2. Generation of Excessive Groundborne Vibration. A significant impact would be 
identified if the construction of the project would generate excessive vibration levels. 
Groundborne vibration levels exceeding 0.3 in/sec PPV would have the potential to result 
in cosmetic damage to normal buildings (see Table 3).

--- page 246 ---
17 
 
Impact 1a: 
Operational Noise in Excess of Established Standards. Mechanical equipment 
operation would have the potential to exceed the applicable noise thresholds at 
existing noise-sensitive land uses in the project vicinity. This is a less-than 
significant impact. 
 
Operational noise is limited to the levels specified in Table 7.30.040, adjusted for ambient conditions.  
Noise-sensitive uses in the site vicinity include multi-family residents along the eastern property line 
and commercial land use along the southern property line. Maximum permissible sound levels for 
residences would be that of Zone 1: 50 dBA between 10:00 p.m. and 7 a.m. and 60 dBA between 
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Maximum permissible sound levels for offices would be that of Zone 2: 
55 dBA between 10:00 p.m. and 7 a.m. and 60 dBA between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. 
 
The project design is not far enough along at this point that mechanical equipment that will service 
the building have been selected. Generally, one HVAC unit will be provided per unit, and the current 
plans indicate that the mechanical equipment will be located within mechanical equipment wells at 
the rooftop level of the building which will cause most of the noise to be projected upward and away 
from neighboring properties.  
 
Noise levels produced by a typical residential heat pump are approximately 56 dBA at 3 feet during 
operation. Noise levels produced by a typical residential air conditioning condenser are 
approximately 66 dBA at 3 feet during operation. Up to 4 mechanical units would be located on the 
roof of the four-story building proposed nearest the east boundary of the site and adjacent multi-
family residential. Up to 4 mechanical units would be located on the roof of the four-story building 
proposed nearest the south boundary of the site and adjoining office building. Based on the above 
generic assumptions, mechanical equipment noise levels are calculated to be 35 to 45 dBA at the 
nearest noise sensitive land uses and would be below ambient noise levels and the limits established 
in the City’s Municipal Code.  
 
Equipment is not anticipated for a project of this scale to make meeting the applicable noise limits 
with standard noise control measures difficult. However, during final design of the mechanical 
systems, the noise levels from the various pieces of equipment on the rooftop should be calculated 
to ensure compliance with Chapter 7.30.040 of the City’s Municipal Code. This is a less-than 
significant impact.  
 
Conditions of Approval Measure 1a: 
None required.

--- page 247 ---
18 
 
Impact 1b: 
Permanent Noise Level Increase. Project-generated traffic would not cause a 
permanent noise level increase at existing noise-sensitive land uses in the project 
vicinity. This is a less-than-significant impact.  
 
A significant noise impact would occur if traffic generated by the project would increase noise 
levels at sensitive receptors by 3 dBA Ldn or more. For reference, existing traffic volumes would 
have to double for noise levels to increase by 3 dBA Ldn.  
 
The traffic study prepared for the proposed project by Fehr Peers included peak turning movements 
for existing traffic volumes at the one affected intersection. Peak hour turning movements for 
project trips were also included. When these project trips were added to the existing traffic 
volumes, the existing plus project was calculated. By comparing the existing plus project to the 
existing traffic volumes, the permeant traffic noise increase attributable to the project was 
calculated to be 0 dBA Ldn. The traffic study included peak turning movements for cumulative 
traffic volumes and cumulative plus project. By comparing the cumulative plus project to the 
cumulative traffic volumes, the permeant traffic noise increase attributable to the project was 
calculated to be 0 dBA Ldn. The project would not result in the doubling of traffic, and therefore, 
the project would not result in a permanent noise increase of 3 dBA Ldn or more. This is a less-
than-significant impact. 
 
Conditions of Approval Measure 1b: 
None required. 
 
Impact 1c: 
Temporary Construction Noise. Existing noise-sensitive land uses would be 
exposed to construction noise levels in excess of the significance thresholds. This 
is a potentially significant impact. 
 
Section 7.30.060 of the City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code limits construction to weekdays 
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Saturdays between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and 
holidays between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. Additionally, the City specifies that no individual piece 
of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet and that the 
noise level outside any point outside the property plane of the project shall not exceed 90 dBA. 
 
Noise impacts resulting from construction depend upon the noise generated by various pieces of 
construction equipment, the timing and duration of noise-generating activities, and the distance 
between construction noise sources and noise-sensitive areas. Construction noise impacts 
primarily result when construction activities occur during noise-sensitive times of the day (e.g., 
early morning, evening, or nighttime hours), the construction occurs in areas immediately 
adjoining noise-sensitive land uses, or when construction lasts over extended periods of time.  
 
Project construction is anticipated to occur over a period of about 15 months and would include 
demolition of existing structures and pavement, site preparation, grading and excavation, trenching 
and foundations, building erection, and paving. The hauling of excavated materials and 
construction materials would generate truck trips on local roadways. Pile driving would not be 
used as a means of construction.

--- page 248 ---
19 
 
Construction activities would be carried out in stages. During each stage of construction, there 
would be a different mix of equipment operating, and noise levels would vary by stage and vary 
within stages, based on the amount of equipment in operation and the location at which the 
equipment is operating. Typical construction noise levels at a distance of 50 feet are shown in 
Tables 4 and 5. Table 4 shows the average noise level ranges by construction phase and Table 5 
shows the average and maximum noise level ranges for different construction equipment. Most 
demolition and construction noise falls with the range of 80 to 90 dBA at 50 feet from the source. 
Construction-generated noise levels drop off at a rate of about 6 dBA per doubling of the distance 
between the source and receptor. Shielding by buildings or terrain can provide an additional 5 to 
10 dBA noise reduction at distant receptors.  
 
TABLE 4 
Typical Ranges of Construction Noise Levels at 50 Feet, Leq (dBA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Domestic Housing 
 
Office Building, 
Hotel, Hospital, 
School, Public 
Works 
Industrial Parking 
Garage, Religious 
Amusement & 
Recreations, Store, 
Service Station 
 
Public Works 
Roads & Highways, 
Sewers, and 
Trenches 
I 
II 
I 
II 
I 
II 
I 
II 
Ground 
Clearing 
 
83 
83 
 
84 
84   
 
84 
83 
 
84 
84 
 
Excavation 
 
88 
75 
 
89 
79 
 
89 
71 
 
88 
78 
 
Foundations 
 
81 
81 
 
78 
78 
 
77 
77 
 
88 
88 
 
Erection 
 
81 
65 
 
87 
75 
 
84 
72 
 
79 
78 
 
Finishing 
 
88 
72 
 
89 
75 
 
89 
74 
 
84 
84 
I - All pertinent equipment present at site. 
II - Minimum required equipment present at site. 
 
Source:  U.S.E.P.A., Legal Compilation on Noise, Vol. 1, p. 2-104, 1973.

--- page 249 ---
20 
 
TABLE 5 
Construction Equipment 50-foot Noise Emission Levels (dBA) 
Equipment Category 
Leq1,2,3 Lmax1,2 
 
Equipment Category 
Leq1,2,3 
Lmax 1,2 
Air Hose 
Air-Operated Post Driver 
Asphalt Distributor Truck (Asphalt Sprayer) 
Auger Drill 
Backhoe 
Bar Bender 
Blasting (Abrasive) 
Blasting (Explosive) 
Chainsaw 
Chip Spreader 
Chipping Gun 
Circular Saw 
Compactor (Plate) 
Compactor (Roller) 
Compressor 
Concrete Batch Plant 
Concrete Grinder 
Concrete Mixer Truck 
Concrete Pump Truck 
Concrete Saw 
Crane 
Directional Drill Rig 
Drum Mixer 
Dump Truck (Cyclical) 
Dump Truck (Passby) 
Excavator 
Flatbed Truck 
Front End Loader (Cyclical) 
Front End Loader (Passby) 
Generator 
Grader (Passby) 
Grinder 
Hammer Drill 
Hoe Ram 
93 
83 
- 
88 
76 
66 
100 
83 
79 
- 
95 
73 
- 
82 
66 
87 
- 
81 
84 
85 
74 
68 
66 
82 
- 
76 
- 
72 
- 
67 
- 
68 
72 
92 
100 
85 
70 
101 
84 
75 
103 
93 
83 
77 
100 
76 
75 
83 
67 
90 
97 
82 
88 
88 
76 
80 
71 
92 
73 
87 
74 
81 
71 
68 
79 
71 
75 
99 
Horizontal Bore Drill 
Impact Pile Driver 
Impact Wrench 
Jackhammer 
Jig Saw 
Joint Sealer 
Man Lift 
Movement Alarm 
Mud Recycler 
Nail Gun 
Pavement Scarifier (Milling Machine) 
Paving – Asphalt (Paver, Dump Truck) 
Paving – Asphalt (Paver, MTV, Dump Truck) 
Paving – Concrete (Placer, Slipform Paver)  
Paving – Concrete (Texturing/Curing Machine) 
Paving – Concrete (Triple Roller Tube Paver) 
Power Unit (Power Pack) 
Pump 
Reciprocating Saw 
Rivet Buster 
Rock Drill 
Rumble Strip Grinding 
Sander 
Scraper 
Shot Crete Pump/Spray 
Street Sweeper 
Telescopic Handler (Forklift) 
Vacuum Excavator (Vac-Truck) 
Ventilation Fan 
Vibratory Concrete Consolidator 
Vibratory Pile Driver 
Warning Horn (Air Horn) 
Water Spray Truck 
Welding Machine 
87 
99 
68 
91 
92 
- 
72 
79 
73 
70 
- 
- 
- 
87 
73 
85 
81 
73 
64 
100 
92 
- 
65 
- 
78 
- 
- 
86 
62 
78 
99 
94 
- 
71 
88 
105 
72 
95 
95 
74 
73 
80 
74 
74 
84 
82 
83 
91 
74 
88 
82 
74 
66 
107 
95 
87 
68 
92 
87 
81 
88 
87 
63 
80 
105 
99 
72 
72 
Notes: 1 Measured at 50 feet from the construction equipment, with a “slow” (1 sec.) time constant. 
  2 Noise levels apply to total noise emitted from equipment and associated components operating at full power while engaged in its intended operation. 
  3 Equipment without average (Leq) noise levels are non-stationary and best represented only by maximum instantaneous noise level (Lmax). 
Source: Project 25-49 Data, National Cooperative Highway Research Program, https://apps.trb.org/cmsfeed/trbnetprojectdisplay.asp?projectid=3889, October 2018

--- page 250 ---
21 
 
Construction of the project is planned to occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, over a period of 15 months. A detailed list of equipment expected to be 
used during each phase of construction was provided and assessed for each phase of construction.  
 
Project construction is expected to be completed in seven phases. Phase 1 is expected to start in 
January 2022 and would include demolition of the exiting site. Phase 2 is expected to start in 
January 2022 and would include site preparation. Phase 3 is expected to start in January 2022 and 
would include grading and excavation of the site. Phase 4 is expected to start in February 2022 
and would include trenching and foundation of the site. Phase 5 is expected to start in April 2022 
and would include building exterior. Phase 6 is expected to start in August 2022 and will include 
building interior and architectural coating. Phase 7 is expected to start June 2022 and will include 
paving.  
 
A detailed list of equipment expected to be used during each phase was provided by the applicant. 
Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA’s) Roadway Construction Noise Model (RCNM) was 
used to calculate the hourly average noise levels for each phase of construction, assuming every 
piece of equipment would operate simultaneously, which would represent the worst-case scenario. 
This construction noise model includes representative sound levels for the most common types of 
construction equipment and the approximate usage factors of such equipment that were developed 
based on an extensive database of information gathered during the construction of the Central 
Artery/Tunnel Project in Boston, Massachusetts (CA/T Project or "Big Dig"). The usage factors 
represent the percentage of time that the equipment would be operating at full power. Assuming 
all equipment for each stage would be operating simultaneously, which would represent the worst-
case construction scenario, at 50 feet measured from the center of the Project site, hourly average 
noise levels would range from 70 to 85 dBA Leq for Phases 1 through 7.  
 
For overall construction noise levels, multiple pieces of equipment used simultaneously would add 
together creating a collective noise source. While every piece of equipment per stage of 
construction would likely be scattered throughout the site, the noise-sensitive receptors 
surrounding the site would be subject to the collective noise source generated by all equipment 
operating at once. Therefore, to assess construction noise impacts at the receiving property lines 
of noise-sensitive receptors during each phase of construction, the collective worst-case hourly 
average noise level for each stage was centered at the geometrical center of the active construction 
site and propagated to the nearest property line of the surrounding land uses.  
 
Noise-sensitive uses surrounding the project site include multi-family residential uses 
approximately 100 feet from the center of construction to the east and approximately 150 feet to 
the south, offices approximately 70 feet to the south and approximately 130 feet to the west and 
public use approximately 150 feet to the west.  
 
Hourly average and maximum construction noise levels at the project site for each construction 
phase, assuming all equipment operating simultaneously, are shown in Table 6 for each of the 
nearby noise sensitive land uses relative to the center of the active construction site. Construction-
generated noise levels drop off at a rate of about 6 dBA per doubling of the distance between the 
source and receptor. Noise levels in shielded areas would be anticipated to be 5 to 20 dB lower.

--- page 251 ---
22 
 
TABLE 6 
Calculated Construction Noise Levels at Nearby Land Uses 
Phase of 
Construction 
Total 
Work 
Days 
Calculated Noise Levels (dBA) 
Offices to the 
South 
Multi-Family 
Residential to 
the East 
Offices to the 
West 
Multi-Family 
Residential to 
the South 
Public Use to 
the South 
Commercial 
to the 
Southwest 
Single Family 
Residential to the 
Southwest 
(70 ft) 
(100 ft) 
(130 ft) 
(150 ft) 
(150 ft) 
(290 ft) 
(575 ft) 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Leq 
Lmax 
Demolition 
8 
76 
86 
73 
83 
71 
81 
69 
80 
63 
74 
64 
74 
55 
65 
Site 
Preparation 
5 
72 
74 
68 
71 
66 
69 
65 
68 
59 
62 
59 
62 
50 
53 
Grading/ 
Excavation 
15 
78 
88 
75 
85 
72 
83 
71 
82 
65 
76 
65 
76 
56 
67 
Trenching/ 
Foundation 
20 
73 
81 
70 
78 
68 
76 
66 
75 
60 
69 
61 
69 
52 
60 
Building 
Exterior 
55 
82 
87 
79 
84 
77 
81 
75 
80 
69 
74 
70 
74 
61 
66 
Building 
Interior/ 
Architectural 
Coating 
60 
67 
70 
64 
67 
62 
65 
61 
63 
55 
57 
55 
58 
46 
49 
Paving 
2 
79 
86 
76 
83 
73 
80 
72 
79 
66 
73 
66 
73 
58 
65

--- page 252 ---
23 
 
Conditions of Approval Measure 1c: Modification, placement, and operation of construction 
equipment are possible means for minimizing the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive 
receptors. Construction equipment should be well-maintained and used judiciously to be as quiet 
as possible. Additionally, construction activities for the proposed project should include the 
following best management practices to reduce noise from construction activities near sensitive 
land uses: 
 
• Construction activities, including truck traffic coming to and from the construction site for 
any purpose, shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday 
through Friday, Saturdays between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and Holidays 
between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m., in accordance with the City’s Municipal Code, unless 
permission is granted with a development permit or other planning approval.  
 
• Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the greatest 
distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors 
nearest the project site during all project construction.  
 
• Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and concrete saws within 35 
feet of shared property lines shall be limited, as feasible. 
 
• Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and exhaust mufflers 
that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
 
• Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines should be strictly prohibited. 
 
• Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or portable power 
generators, as far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. If they must be 
located within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or 
enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels at the 
adjacent sensitive receptors.  
 
• Utilize “quiet” air compressors and other stationary noise sources where technology exists. 
 
• Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not audible at 
existing residences bordering the project site. 
 
• The contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plana identifying the schedule for 
major noise-generating construction activities. The construction plan shall identify a 
procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land uses so that construction activities 
can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. 
 
• Designate a “disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any 
complaints about construction noise. The disturbance coordinator will determine the cause 
of the noise complaint (e.g. bad muffler, etc.) and will require that reasonable measures be 
implemented to correct the problem. Conspicuously post a telephone number for the 
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to neighbors 
regarding the construction schedule.

--- page 253 ---
24 
 
 
Implementation of the above best management practices would reduce construction noise levels 
emanating from the site, limit construction hours, and minimize disruption and annoyance. With 
the implementation of these measures and recognizing that noise generated by construction 
activities would occur over a temporary period, the impact would be less-than-significant. 
 
Impact 2: 
Exposure to Excessive Groundborne Vibration due to Construction. 
Groundborne vibration from project construction is not anticipated to result in structural of 
cosmetic damage to nearby structures. This is a potentially significant impact. 
 
The City of San Mateo does not specify a construction vibration limit. For structural damage, the 
California Department of Transportation recommends a conservative vibration limit of 0.08 in/sec 
PPV for ancient buildings, 0.3 in/sec PPV for older residential structures, and 0.5 in/sec PPV for 
new residential and modern commercial/industrial structures, which typically consists of buildings 
constructed from the 1990s (see Table 3). There are no historic or ancient structures in the project 
vicinity. For the purposes of this study, groundbourne vibration levels exceeding the conservative 
0.3 in/sec PPV would have the potential to result in a significant vibration impact. 
 
Construction of the project may generate perceptible vibration when heavy equipment or impact 
tools (jackhammers, hoe rams) are used. Construction activities would include demolition, site 
preparation, grading and excavation, trenching and foundation, building (exterior), 
interior/architectural coating, and paving. Pile driving, which can result in higher groundborne 
vibration levels, is not anticipated as a method of construction. 
 
Table 7 presents vibration levels from construction equipment at the reference distance of 25 feet 
and levels calculated at distances representing the nearest adjacent residential and office structures. 
Vibration levels are highest close to the source, and then attenuate with increasing distance at the 
rate (Dref/D)1.1, where D is the distance from the source in feet and Dref is the reference distance of 
25 feet. 
 
TABLE 7 
Vibration Levels for Construction Equipment at Various Distances 
Equipment 
PPV at 25 ft. 
(in/sec) 
PPV at  
10 ft. (in/sec) 
PPV at  
20 ft. (in/sec) 
PPV at  
55 ft. 
(in/sec) 
Clam shovel drop 
0.202 
0.553 
0.258 
0.085 
Hydromill 
(slurry wall) 
in soil 
0.008 
0.022 
0.010 
0.003 
in rock 
0.017 
0.047 
0.022 
0.007 
Vibratory Roller 
0.210 
0.575 
0.268 
0.088 
Hoe Ram 
0.089 
0.244 
0.114 
0.037 
Large bulldozer 
0.089 
0.244 
0.114 
0.037 
Caisson drilling 
0.089 
0.244 
0.114 
0.037 
Loaded trucks 
0.076 
0.208 
0.097 
0.032 
Jackhammer 
0.035 
0.096 
0.045 
0.015 
Small bulldozer 
0.003 
0.008 
0.004 
0.001 
Source: Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, United States Department of Transportation, Office of Planning and 
Environment, Federal Transit Administration, October 2018 as modified by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc., September 2020.

--- page 254 ---
25 
 
Worst-case scenario vibration levels would occur when equipment would be used near the shared 
property lines; therefore, vibration levels were calculated from the project’s boundary lines to the 
nearest buildings surrounding the site. The closest structures to the project site are residences 
located at 1950 Elkhorn Ct., which are approximately 10 feet from the site to the east, and the 
office buildings located at 1941 O’Farrell Street, which are approximately 10 feet to the south, and 
at 1900 O’Farrell Street, which are approximately 55 feet to the west.  
 
As indicated in Table 7, the worst-case vibration levels at the structures to the south and east would 
be up to 0.575 in/sec PPV, which would potentially exceed the California Department of 
Transportation’s recommended limit of 0.3 in/sec PPV. All other surrounding structures would be 
subject to vibration levels below 0.3 in/sec PPV. 
 
A study completed by the US Bureau of Mines has analyzed the effects of blast-induced vibration 
on buildings in USBM RI 8507,3 and these findings have been applied to vibrations emanating 
from construction equipment on buildings.4 Figure 3 presents the damage probability, as reported 
in USBM RI 8507 and reproduced by Dowding, assuming a maximum vibration level of 0.6 in/sec 
PPV.  
 
 
 
3 Siskind, D.E., M.S. Stagg, J.W. Kopp, and C.H. Dowding, Structure Response and Damage Produced by Ground 
Vibration form Surface Mine Blasting, RI 8507, Bureau of Mines Report of Investigations, U.S. Department of the 
Interior Bureau of Mines, Washington, D.C., 1980. 
4 Dowding, C.H., Construction Vibrations, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, 1996.

--- page 255 ---
26 
 
FIGURE 3 
Probability of Cracking and Fatigue from Repetitive Loading 
 
Source:  Dowding, C.H., Construction Vibrations, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, 1996 as modified by 
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc., April 2021. 
 
 
8% Probability 
of “Threshold 
Damage” at 0.6 
in/sec PPV 
No Observations of 
“Minor Damage” or 
“Major Damage” at 
0.6 in/sec PPV 
 
 
0.6 in/sec PPV

--- page 256 ---
27 
 
As shown on Figure 3, these studies indicate an approximate 8% probability of “threshold damage” 
(referred to as cosmetic damage elsewhere in this report) at vibration levels of 0.6 in/sec PPV or 
less and no observations of “minor damage” or “major damage” at vibration levels of 0.6 in/sec 
PPV or less. Based on these data, cosmetic or threshold damage would be manifested in the form 
of hairline cracking in plaster, the opening of old cracks, the loosening of paint or the dislodging 
of loose objects. However, minor damage (e.g., hairline cracking in masonry or the loosening of 
plaster) or major structural damage (e.g., wide cracking or shifting of foundation or bearing walls) 
to the residential and office structures adjacent to the site would not be anticipated to occur 
assuming a maximum vibration level of 0.6 in/sec PPV. 
 
The nearest buildings located on the adjoining properties to the south and east are as close as 10 
feet from the shared property line. At this distance, vibration levels would be as high as 0.553 to 
0.575 in/sec PPV when heavy equipment is dropped, or vibratory rollers are used within 25 feet 
of the buildings.  
 
While most construction work would occur throughout the site where vibration levels would be 
reduced to levels below 0.3 in/sec PPV, construction-generated vibration levels for the proposed 
project occurring near the eastern and southern boundaries of the site could potentially result in 
cosmetic damage (e.g. hairline cracks in plaster, opening of old cracks, etc.) at existing structures 
adjacent to the site. Additionally, construction vibration would be perceptible to the occupants of 
the adjacent buildings. This is a potentially significant impact.  
 
By administrative controls, such as notifying neighbors of scheduled construction activities and 
scheduling construction activities with the highest potential to produce perceptible vibration during 
hours with the least potential to affect nearby businesses and residences, perceptible vibration can 
be kept to a minimum. To address the potential impacts related to vibration, the project will 
implement conditions of approval measure 2.  
 
Conditions of Approval Measure 2: 
The following measures are recommended to reduce 
vibration impacts from construction activities to a less-than-significant impact:  
 
• The use of vibratory rollers and clam shovel drops should be prohibited. 
 
• Limit the use of hoe rams, large bulldozers, and caisson drilling. Place operating equipment 
on the construction site as far as possible from vibration-sensitive receptors. 
 
• Use smaller equipment to minimize vibration levels below the limits. 
 
• Select demolition methods not involving impact tools. 
 
• Avoid dropping heavy objects or materials near vibration sensitive locations. 
 
Implementation of these measures would reduce the impact to a less-than-significant level.

--- page 257 ---
1919 O’FARRELL STREET 
CONSTRUCTION COMMUNITY 
RISK ASSESSMENT 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
May 13, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
 
Somer Smith, AICP 
Associate Planner  
Community Development Department 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Prepared by: 
 
Casey Divine 
Zachary Palm 
James A. Reyff 
 
 
429 East Cotati Avenue  
Cotati, CA 94931 
(707) 794-0400 
 
I&R Project#: 21-031

--- page 258 ---
1 
 
Introduction 
 
The purpose of this report is to address the potential community risk impacts associated with the 
construction of the proposed residential project located at 1919 O’Farrell Street in San Mateo, 
California. The air quality impacts from this project would be associated with construction of a 
new residential building. Air pollutant emissions associated with construction of the project were 
predicted using appropriate computer models. In addition, the potential project construction health 
risk impacts and the impact of existing toxic air contaminant (TAC) sources affecting the nearby 
and proposed sensitive receptors were evaluated. The analysis was conducted following guidance 
provided by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD).1    
 
Project Description 
 
The approximate 0.63-acre project site currently contains a one-story office building and adjacent 
parking lots. The project proposes to demolish the existing structure and construct a four-story, 
49-unit multi-family apartment building with a below-grade parking garage containing 64 parking 
spaces. 
 
Setting 
 
The project is located in San Mateo County, which is in the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin. 
Ambient air quality standards have been established at both the State and federal level. The Bay 
Area meets all ambient air quality standards with the exception of ground-level ozone, respirable 
particulate matter (PM10), and fine particulate matter (PM2.5).  
 
Air Pollutants of Concern 
 
High ozone levels are caused by the cumulative emissions of reactive organic gases (ROG) and 
nitrogen oxides (NOX). These precursor pollutants react under certain meteorological conditions 
to form high ozone levels. Controlling the emissions of these precursor pollutants is the focus of 
the Bay Area’s attempts to reduce ozone levels. The highest ozone levels in the Bay Area occur in 
the eastern and southern inland valleys that are downwind of air pollutant sources. High ozone 
levels aggravate respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, reduced lung function, and increase 
coughing and chest discomfort. 
 
Particulate matter is another problematic air pollutant of the Bay Area. Particulate matter is 
assessed and measured in terms of respirable particulate matter or particles that have a diameter of 
10 micrometers or less (PM10) and fine particulate matter where particles have a diameter of 2.5 
micrometers or less (PM2.5). Elevated concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 are the result of both 
region-wide (or cumulative) emissions and localized emissions. High particulate matter levels 
aggravate respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, reduce lung function, increase mortality (e.g., 
lung cancer), and result in reduced lung function growth in children. 
 
 
 
 
1 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, CEQA Air Quality Guidelines, May 2017.

--- page 259 ---
2 
 
Toxic Air Contaminants 
 
Toxic air contaminants (TAC) are a broad class of compounds known to cause morbidity or 
mortality (usually because they cause cancer) and include, but are not limited to, the criteria air 
pollutants. TACs are found in ambient air, especially in urban areas, and are caused by industry, 
agriculture, fuel combustion, and commercial operations (e.g., dry cleaners). TACs are typically 
found in low concentrations, even near their source (e.g., diesel particulate matter [DPM] near a 
freeway). Because chronic exposure can result in adverse health effects, TACs are regulated at the 
regional, State, and federal level. 
 
Diesel exhaust is the predominant TAC in urban air and is estimated to represent about three-
quarters of the cancer risk from TACs (based on the Bay Area average). According to the 
California Air Resources Board (CARB), diesel exhaust is a complex mixture of gases, vapors, 
and fine particles. This complexity makes the evaluation of health effects of diesel exhaust a 
complex scientific issue. Some of the chemicals in diesel exhaust, such as benzene and 
formaldehyde, have been previously identified as TACs by the CARB, and are listed as 
carcinogens either under the State's Proposition 65 or under the Federal Hazardous Air Pollutants 
programs.  
 
Regulatory Setting 
 
Federal Regulations 
 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets nationwide emission standards 
for mobile sources, which include on-road (highway) motor vehicles such trucks, buses, and 
automobiles, and non-road (off-road) vehicles and equipment used in construction, agricultural, 
industrial, and mining activities (such as bulldozers and loaders). The EPA also sets nationwide 
fuel standards. California also has the ability to set motor vehicle emission standards and standards 
for fuel used in California, as long as they are the same or more stringent than the federal standards.  
 
In the past decade the EPA has established a number of emission standards for on- and non-road 
heavy-duty diesel engines used in trucks and other equipment. This was done in part because diesel 
engines are a significant source of NOX and particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5) and because the 
EPA has identified DPM as a probable carcinogen. Implementation of the heavy-duty diesel on-
road vehicle standards and the non-road diesel engine standards are estimated to reduce particulate 
matter and NOX emissions from diesel engines up to 95 percent in 2030 when the heavy-duty 
vehicle fleet is completely replaced with newer heavy-duty vehicles that comply with these 
emission standards.2  
 
In concert with the diesel engine emission standards, the EPA has also substantially reduced the 
amount of sulfur allowed in diesel fuels. The sulfur contained in diesel fuel is a significant 
contributor to the formation of particulate matter in diesel-fueled engine exhaust. The new 
standards reduced the amount of sulfur allowed by 97 percent for highway diesel fuel (from 500 
parts per million by weight [ppmw] to 15 ppmw), and by 99 percent for off-highway diesel fuel 
 
2 USEPA, 2000. Regulatory Announcement, Heavy-Duty Engine and Vehicle Standards and Highway Diesel Fuel 
Sulfur Control Requirements. EPA420-F-00-057. December.

--- page 260 ---
3 
 
(from about 3,000 ppmw to 15 ppmw). The low sulfur highway fuel (15 ppmw sulfur), also called 
ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD), is currently required for use by all vehicles in the U.S.  
 
All of the above federal diesel engine and diesel fuel requirements have been adopted by 
California, in some cases with modifications making the requirements more stringent or the 
implementation dates sooner. 
 
State Regulations 
 
To address the issue of diesel emissions in the state, CARB developed the Risk Reduction Plan to 
Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from Diesel-Fueled Engines and Vehicles.3 In addition to 
requiring more stringent emission standards for new on-road and off-road mobile sources and 
stationary diesel-fueled engines to reduce particulate matter emissions by 90 percent, a significant 
component of the plan involves application of emission control strategies to existing diesel 
vehicles and equipment. Many of the measures of the Diesel Risk Reduction Plan have been 
approved and adopted, including the federal on-road and non-road diesel engine emission 
standards for new engines, as well as adoption of regulations for low sulfur fuel in California.  
 
CARB has adopted and implemented a number of regulations for stationary and mobile sources to 
reduce emissions of DPM. Several of these regulatory programs affect medium and heavy-duty 
diesel trucks that represent the bulk of DPM emissions from California highways. CARB 
regulations require on-road diesel trucks to be retrofitted with particulate matter controls or 
replaced to meet 2010 or later engine standards that have much lower DPM and PM2.5 emissions. 
This regulation will substantially reduce these emissions between 2013 and 2023. While new 
trucks and buses will meet strict federal standards, this measure is intended to accelerate the rate 
at which the fleet either turns over so there are more cleaner vehicles on the road or is retrofitted 
to meet similar standards. With this regulation, older, more polluting trucks would be removed 
from the roads sooner.  
 
CARB has also adopted and implemented regulations to reduce DPM and NOX emissions from in-
use (existing) and new off-road heavy-duty diesel vehicles (e.g., loaders, tractors, bulldozers, 
backhoes, off-highway trucks, etc.). The regulations apply to diesel-powered off-road vehicles 
with engines 25 horsepower (hp) or greater. The regulations are intended to reduce particulate 
matter and NOX exhaust emissions by requiring owners to turn over their fleet (replace older 
equipment with newer equipment) or retrofit existing equipment in order to achieve specified fleet-
averaged emission rates. Implementation of this regulation, in conjunction with stringent federal 
off-road equipment engine emission limits for new vehicles, will significantly reduce emissions of 
DPM and NOX.  
 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) 
 
BAAQMD has jurisdiction over an approximately 5,600-square mile area, commonly referred to 
as the San Francisco Bay Area (Bay Area). The District’s boundary encompasses the nine San 
Francisco Bay Area counties, including Alameda County, Contra Costa County, Marin County, 
 
3 California Air Resources Board, 2000. Risk Reduction Plan to Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from Diesel-
Fueled Engines and Vehicles. October.

--- page 261 ---
4 
 
San Francisco County, San Mateo County, Santa Clara County, Napa County, southwestern 
Solano County, and southern Sonoma County.  
 
BAAQMD is the lead agency in developing plans to address attainment and maintenance of the 
National Ambient Air Quality Standards and California Ambient Air Quality Standards. The 
District also has permit authority over most types of stationary equipment utilized for the proposed 
project. The BAAQMD is responsible for permitting and inspection of stationary sources; 
enforcement of regulations, including setting fees, levying fines, and enforcement actions; and 
ensuring that public nuisances are minimized. 
 
BAAQMD’s Community Air Risk Evaluation (CARE) program was initiated in 2004 to evaluate 
and reduce health risks associated with exposures to outdoor TACs in the Bay Area.4 The program 
examines TAC emissions from point sources, area sources, and on-road and off-road mobile 
sources with an emphasis on diesel exhaust, which is a major contributor to airborne health risk in 
California. The CARE program is an on-going program that encourages community involvement 
and input. The technical analysis portion of the CARE program is being implemented in three 
phases that includes an assessment of the sources of TAC emissions, modeling and measurement 
programs to estimate concentrations of TAC, and an assessment of exposures and health risks. 
Throughout the program, information derived from the technical analyses will be used to focus 
emission reduction measures in areas with high TAC exposures and high density of sensitive 
populations. Risk reduction activities associated with the CARE program are focused on the most 
at-risk communities in the Bay Area. The BAAQMD has identified six communities as impacted: 
Concord, Richmond/San Pablo, Western Alameda County, San José, Redwood City/East Palo 
Alto, and Eastern San Francisco. The project site is not within a CARE area.    
 
The BAAQMD California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Air Quality Guidelines5 were 
prepared to assist in the evaluation of air quality impacts of projects and plans proposed within the 
Bay Area. The guidelines provide recommended procedures for evaluating potential air impacts 
during the environmental review process consistent with CEQA requirements including thresholds 
of significance, mitigation measures, and background air quality information. They also include 
assessment methodologies for air toxics, odors, and greenhouse gas emissions. Attachment 1 
includes detailed community risk modeling methodology. 
 
City of San Mateo Vision 2030 General Plan  
 
The Land Use Element of the City of San Mateo Vision 2030 General Plan includes goals, policies, 
and actions to reduce exposure of the City’s sensitive population to exposure of air pollution, toxic 
air contaminants, and GHGs. The following goals, policies, and actions are applicable to the 
proposed project: 
 
Climate Change Goals and Policies 
Goal 8a  
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions each year consistent with the Climate Action 
Plan.  
 
4 See BAAQMD:  https://www.baaqmd.gov/community-health/community-health-protection-program/community-
air-risk-evaluation-care-program , accessed 2/18/2021. 
5 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2017. CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. May.

--- page 262 ---
5 
 
 
Policy LU 8.1 Carbon Footprint. The City shall prepare an updated greenhouse gas emissions 
inventory consistent with the Climate Action Plan. 
 
Policy LU 8.2 Effects of Climate Change. Incorporate consideration of the effects of climate 
change in development of General Plan updates, disaster planning, City projects, 
infrastructure planning, future policies and long-term strategies. Explore voluntary 
adjustments of base flood elevation. 
 
Policy LU 8.3 GHG Emission Reductions. Monitor and report progress toward the City’s GHG 
emissions reduction target on an annual basis and regularly review emission 
reduction measures and new opportunities consistent with guidance of the City’s 
Climate Action Plan. 
 
Air Quality Goals and Policies 
Policy LU 8.9 Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures: 
  
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest 
BAAQMD guidance, shall be applied to all construction activities within 
San Mateo.  
 
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance 
with applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos 
containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint 
and asbestos.  
 
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time 
of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include the 
utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the 
length of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and 
utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment 
(alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters). 
 
Policy LU 8.11 
Toxic Air Contaminants. The City shall require that when new development 
that would be a source of TACs is proposed near residences or sensitive receptors, 
either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on recommendations and 
requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or 
filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided to reduce the potential 
exposure to acceptable levels.  
 
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of TAC’s, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board

--- page 263 ---
6 
 
and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided to the 
source to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
 
Sensitive Receptors 
 
There are groups of people more affected by air pollution than others. CARB has identified the 
following persons who are most likely to be affected by air pollution: children under 16, the elderly 
over 65, athletes, and people with cardiovascular and chronic respiratory diseases. These groups 
are classified as sensitive receptors. Locations that may contain a high concentration of these 
sensitive population groups include residential areas, hospitals, daycare facilities, elder care 
facilities, and elementary schools. For cancer risk assessments, children are the most sensitive 
receptors, since they are more susceptible to cancer causing TACs. Residential locations are 
assumed to include infants and small children. The closest sensitive receptors to the project site 
are in the multi-family residences adjacent to the east of the project site. There are other nearby 
residences to the south and west of the project site. In addition, there is an early child development 
center (infants 6 weeks and older) and middle school (children 2 years and older) to the southeast 
and southwest of the site. This project would also introduce new sensitive receptors (i.e., residents) 
to the area.  
 
Significance Thresholds 
 
In June 2010, BAAQMD adopted thresholds of significance to assist in the review of projects 
under CEQA and these significance thresholds were contained in the District’s 2011 CEQA Air 
Quality Guidelines. These thresholds were designed to establish the level at which BAAQMD 
believed air pollution emissions would cause significant environmental impacts under CEQA. The 
thresholds were challenged through a series of court challenges and were mostly upheld. 
BAAQMD updated the CEQA Air Quality Guidelines in 2017 to include the latest significance 
thresholds, which were used in this analysis and are summarized in Table 1.  Community risks are 
considered significant if they exceed these levels. 
 
  Table 1.  
BAAQMD CEQA Community Risk Significance Thresholds 
Health Risks and 
Hazards 
Single Sources Within ¼-
Mile Zone of Influence 
Combined Sources (Cumulative from all 
sources within ¼-Mile zone of influence) 
Excess Cancer Risk 
10.0 per one million 
100 per one million 
Hazard Index 
1.0 
10.0 
Incremental annual PM2.5 
0.3 µg/m3 
0.8 µg/m3 
Note: PM10 = course particulate matter or particulates with an aerodynamic diameter of 10 micrometers (µm) or 
less, PM2.5 = fine particulate matter or particulates with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5µm or less. GHG = 
greenhouse gases.

--- page 264 ---
7 
 
Construction Community Risk Impacts and Recommended Conditions of 
Approval (CoA) 
 
Project impacts related to increased community risk can occur either by generating emissions of 
TACs and air pollutants and by introducing a new sensitive receptor in proximity to an existing 
source of TACs. Temporary project construction activity would generate emissions of DPM from 
equipment and trucks and also generate dust on a temporary basis that could affect nearby sensitive 
receptors. A construction community health risk assessment was prepared to address project 
construction impacts on the surrounding off-site sensitive receptors.  
 
Additionally, the project could introduce new residents that are sensitive receptors, who would be 
exposed to existing sources of TACs and localized air pollutants in the vicinity of the project. 
Therefore, the impact of the existing sources of TAC upon the existing sensitive receptors and new 
incoming sensitive receptors was assessed.  
 
Community risk impacts are addressed by predicting increased lifetime cancer risk, the increase 
in annual PM2.5 concentrations, and computing the Hazard Index (HI) for non-cancer health risks.  
Construction equipment and associated heavy-duty truck traffic generates diesel exhaust, which is 
a known TAC. These exhaust emissions pose health risks for sensitive receptors such as 
surrounding residents. The primary community risk impact issues associated with construction 
emissions are cancer risk and exposure to PM2.5. A health risk assessment of the project 
construction activities was conducted that evaluated potential health effects to nearby sensitive 
receptors from construction emissions of DPM and PM2.5.6 This assessment included dispersion 
modeling to predict the offsite and onsite concentrations resulting from project construction, so 
that lifetime cancer risks and non-cancer health effects could be evaluated. The methodology for 
computing community risks impacts is contained in Attachment 1. 
 
Construction Period Emissions 
 
The California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) Version 2016.3.2 was used to estimate 
emissions from on-site construction activity, construction vehicle trips, and evaporative emissions. 
The project land use types and size, and anticipated construction schedule were input to 
CalEEMod. The CARB EMission FACtors 2017 (EMFAC2017) model was used to predict 
emissions from construction traffic, which includes worker travel, vendor trucks, and haul trucks.7 
The CalEEMod model output along with construction inputs are included in Attachment 2 and 
EMFAC2017 vehicle emissions modeling outputs are included in Attachment 3.  
 
CalEEMod Modeling 
 
Land Use Inputs 
 
The proposed residential land uses were entered into CalEEMod as described in Table 2.  
 
 
6 DPM is identified by California as a toxic air contaminant due to the potential to cause cancer. 
7 See CARB’s EMFAC2017 Web Database at https://www.arb.ca.gov/emfac/2017/

--- page 265 ---
8 
 
Table 2. 
Summary of Project Land Use Inputs 
Project Land Uses 
Size 
Units 
Square Feet (sf) 
Acreage 
Apartments Mid Rise 
49 
Dwelling Unit 
55,700 
0.63 
Enclosed Parking Structure 
64 
Space 
22,454 
 
Construction Inputs 
 
CalEEMod computes annual emissions for construction that are based on the project type, size, 
and acreage. The model provides emission estimates for both on-site and off-site construction 
activities. On-site activities are primarily made up of construction equipment emissions, while off-
site activity includes worker, hauling, and vendor traffic. The construction build-out scenario for 
both phases, including equipment list and schedule, were based on information provided by the 
project applicant.  
 
The construction equipment worksheets provided by the applicant included the schedule for each 
phase. Within each phase, the quantity of equipment to be used, the average hours per day, and 
total number of workdays were provided by the applicant. Since different equipment would have 
different estimates of the working days per phase, the hours per day for each phase was computed 
by dividing the total number of hours that the equipment would be used by the total number of 
days in that phase. The construction schedule assumed that the earliest possible start date would 
be January 2022, project construction would be five-days a week, and the project would be built 
out over a period of approximately 15 months. For modeling purposes, a condensed schedule of 
10 months and 165 construction workdays was utilized to minimize periods of no construction 
activity within phases and increase resulting concentrations. The earliest year of full operation was 
assumed to be 2023. 
 
Construction Truck Traffic Emissions 
 
The latest version of the CalEEMod model is based on the older version of the CARB 
EMFAC2014 motor vehicle emission factor model. This model has been superseded by the 
EMFAC2017 model; however, CalEEMod has not been updated to include EMFAC2017. 
Construction would produce traffic in the form of worker trips and truck traffic. The traffic-related 
emissions are based on worker and vendor trip estimates produced by CalEEMod and haul trips 
that were computed based on the estimate of demolition material to be exported, soil material 
imported and/or exported to the site, and the estimate of cement and asphalt truck trips. CalEEMod 
provides daily estimates of worker and vendor trips for each applicable phase. The total trips for 
those were computed by multiplying the daily trip rate by the number of days in that phase. Haul 
trips for demolition and grading were estimated from the provided demolition and grading 
volumes. The number of concrete total round haul trips were provided for the project and converted 
to total one-way trips, assuming two trips per delivery. 
 
The construction traffic information was combined with EMFAC2017 motor vehicle emissions 
factors. EMFAC2017 provides aggregate emission rates in grams per mile for each vehicle type. 
The vehicle mix for this study was based on CalEEMod default assumptions, where worker trips 
are assumed to be comprised of light-duty autos (EMFAC category LDA) and light duty trucks 
(EMFAC category LDT1and LDT2). Vendor trips are comprised of delivery and large trucks

--- page 266 ---
9 
 
(EMFAC category MHDT and HHDT) and haul trips, including cement trucks, are comprised of 
large trucks (EMFAC category HHDT). Travel distances are based on CalEEMod default lengths, 
which are 10.8 miles for worker travel, 7.3 miles for vendor trips and 20 miles for hauling 
(demolition material export and soil import/export). Since CalEEMod does not address cement 
trucks, these were treated as vendor travel distances. Each trip was assumed to include an idle time 
of 5 minutes. Emissions associated with vehicle starts were also included. On road emissions in 
San Mateo County for 2022 were used in these calculations. Table 3 provides the traffic inputs 
that were combined with the EMFAC2017 emission database to compute vehicle emissions. 
 
Table 3. 
Construction Traffic Data Used for EMFAC2017 Model Runs 
CalEEMod Run/Land 
Uses and Construction 
Phase 
Trips by Trip Type 
Notes 
Total 
Worker1 
Total 
Vendor1 
Total  
Haul2 
Vehicle mix1 
62.6% LDA 
8.8% LDT1 
28.5% LDT2 
77.2% MHDT 
22.8% HHDT 
100% HHDT 
 
Trip Length (miles) 
10.8 
7.3 
20.0 (Demo/Soil) 
7.3 (Cement) 
CalEEMod default distance 
with 5-min truck idle time. 
Demolition 
40 
- 
67 
3,798-sf of existing building 
and 11,000-sf of existing 
pavement demolition. 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Site Preparation 
15 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Grading 
120 
- 
922 
7,225-cy soil export. 
150-cy soil import. 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Trenching 
60 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Building Construction 
2,475 
495 
178 
89 cement truck round trips. 
CalEEMod default worker 
and vendor trips. 
Architectural Coating 
540 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Paving 
8 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips.  
Notes: 1 Based on 2022 EMFAC2017 light-duty vehicle fleet mix for San Mateo County.  
2 Includes grading trips estimated by CalEEMod based on amount of material to be removed. 
 
Summary of Computed Construction Period Emissions  
 
The CalEEMod model and EMFAC2017 emissions provided total annual PM10 exhaust emissions 
(assumed to be DPM) for the off-road construction equipment and for exhaust emissions from on-
road vehicles, with total emissions from all construction stages as 0.0199 tons (40 pounds) before 
recommended CoA, and 0.0062 tons (12 pounds) after recommended CoA. The on-road emissions 
are a result of haul truck travel during demolition and grading activities, worker travel, and vendor 
deliveries during construction. A trip length of one mile was used to represent vehicle travel while 
at or near the construction site. It was assumed that these emissions from on-road vehicles traveling 
at or near the site would occur at the construction site. Fugitive PM2.5 dust emissions were

--- page 267 ---
10 
 
calculated by CalEEMod as 0.0045 tons (9 pounds) before recommended CoA, and 0.0021 tons 
(4 pounds) after recommended CoA for the overall construction period.  
 
Community Health Risk from Project Construction  
 
Dispersion Modeling 
 
The U.S. EPA AERMOD dispersion model was used to predict concentrations of DPM and PM2.5 
concentrations at sensitive receptors in the vicinity of the project construction area. The AERMOD 
dispersion model is a BAAQMD-recommended model for use in modeling analysis of these types 
of emission activities for CEQA projects.8  
 
Construction Sources 
 
To represent the construction equipment exhaust emissions, an area source emission release height 
of 20 feet (6 meters) was used for the area sources.9 The release height incorporates both the 
physical release height from the construction equipment (i.e., the height of the exhaust pipe) and 
plume rise after it leaves the exhaust pipe. Plume rise is due to both the high temperature of the 
exhaust and the high velocity of the exhaust gas. It should be noted that when modeling an area 
source, plume rise is not calculated by the AERMOD dispersion model as it would do for a point 
source (exhaust stack). Therefore, the release height from an area source used to represent 
emissions from sources with plume rise, such as construction equipment, should be based on the 
height the exhaust plume is expected to achieve, not just the height of the top of the exhaust pipe.  
 
For modeling fugitive PM2.5 emissions, a near-ground level release height of 7 feet (2 meters) was 
used for the area source. Fugitive dust emissions at construction sites come from a variety of 
sources, including truck and equipment travel, grading activities, truck loading (with loaders) and 
unloading (rear or bottom dumping), loaders and excavators moving and transferring soil and other 
materials, etc. All of these activities result in fugitive dust emissions at various heights at the 
point(s) of generation. Once generated, the dust plume will tend to rise as it moves downwind 
across the site and exit the site at a higher elevation than when it was generated. For all these 
reasons, a 7-foot release height was used as the average release height across the construction site. 
Emissions from the construction equipment and on-road vehicle travel were distributed throughout 
the modeled area sources.  
 
AERMOD Inputs and Meteorological Data 
 
The modeling used a five-year data set (2013 – 2017) of hourly meteorological data from the San 
Francisco International Airport prepared for use with the AERMOD model by BAAQMD. 
Construction emissions were modeled as occurring daily between 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., when it 
was assumed the majority of construction activity would occur. Annual DPM and PM2.5 
concentrations from construction activities during the year 2022 were calculated using the model. 
 
8 Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and 
Modeling Local Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May. 
9 California Air Resource Board, 2007. Proposed Regulation for In-Use Off-Road Diesel Vehicles, Appendix D: 
Health Risk Methodology. April. Web: https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/regact/2007/ordiesl07/ordiesl07.htm

--- page 268 ---
11 
 
DPM and PM2.5 concentrations were calculated at nearby sensitive receptors. Receptor heights of 
5 feet (1.5 meters), 15 feet (4.5 meters), and 25 feet (7.6 meters) were used to represent the 
breathing height on the first, second, and third floors of nearby multi-story residences.10  
 
Summary of Construction Community Risk Impacts  
 
The maximum increased cancer risks were calculated using the modeled TAC concentrations 
combined with the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) guidance for 
age sensitivity factors and exposure parameters as recommended by BAAQMD (see Attachment 
1). Non-cancer health hazards and maximum PM2.5 concentrations were also calculated and 
identified. Age-sensitivity factors reflect the greater sensitivity of third trimester, infants, and small 
children to cancer causing TACs. Third trimester, infant, child, and adult exposures were assumed 
to occur at all residences during the entire construction period.  
 
The maximum modeled annual PM2.5 concentration was calculated based on combined exhaust and 
fugitive concentrations. The maximum computed HI value was based on the ratio of the maximum 
DPM concentration modeled and the chronic inhalation refence exposure level of 5 µg/m3.  
 
The maximum-modeled annual DPM and PM2.5 concentrations, which includes both the DPM and 
fugitive PM2.5 concentrations, were identified at nearby sensitive receptors (as shown in Figure 1) 
to find the maximally exposed individuals (MEI). Results of this assessment indicated that the 
construction residential MEI was located on the second floor of the apartment building east of the 
project site. Table 4 summarizes the maximum cancer risks, PM2.5 concentrations, and health 
hazard indexes for project related construction activities affecting the construction MEI. 
Attachment 4 to this report includes the emission calculations used for the construction area source 
modeling and the cancer risk calculations.  
 
Additionally, modeling was conducted to predict the cancer risks, non-cancer health hazards, and 
maximum PM2.5 concentrations associated with construction activities at the nearby early child 
development center and middle school. The maximum increased cancer risks were adjusted using 
infant and child exposure parameters. The uncontrolled cancer risk, PM2.5 concentration, and HI 
at the nearby early child development center and middle school do not exceed their respective 
BAAQMD single-source significance thresholds, as shown in Table 4. 
 
 
 
 
10 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local 
Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May. Web: https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/risk-modeling-approach-may-2012.pdf?la=en

--- page 269 ---
12 
 
Table 4. 
Construction Risk Impacts at the Off-site MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
Project Impact 
Project Construction                                                   Without COA 
With COA* 
18.8 (infant) 
5.9 (infant) 
0.10 
0.04 
0.01 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
10.0 
0.3 
1.0 
Exceed Threshold?                                                  Without COA 
With COA*  
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Most Affected Nearby School – Little Bloom Early Child Development Center 
Project Construction                                                 Without COA 
5.1 (infant) 
0.01 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
10.0 
0.3 
1.0 
Exceed Threshold?                                                  Without COA 
No 
No 
No 
* Construction equipment with Tier 4 interim engines and Best Management Practices as recommended CoA. 
 
Figure 1.  
Project Construction Site, Locations of Off-Site Sensitive Receptors, and 
Maximum TAC Impact Location

--- page 270 ---
13 
 
Cumulative Community Risks of all TAC Sources at the Offsite Project MEI 
 
Community health risk assessments typically look at all substantial sources of TACs that can affect 
sensitive receptors that are located within 1,000 feet of a project site (i.e., influence area). These 
sources include rail lines, highways, busy surface streets, and stationary sources identified by 
BAAQMD. A review of the project influence area based on provided information indicates that 
traffic on J Arthur Younger Freeway (State Route 92) and El Camino Real (State Route 82) would 
exceed an average daily traffic (ADT) of 10,000 vehicles. A review of BAAQMD’s stationary 
source geographic information systems (GIS) map tool11 identified five stationary sources with the 
potential to affect the project site and MEI. Figure 2 shows the location of sources affecting the 
project site and MEI. Community risk impacts from these sources upon the MEI reported in Table 
5. Details of the modeling and community risk calculations are included in Attachment 5.  
 
Figure 2. 
Project Site and Nearby TAC and PM2.5 Sources  
 
 
 
 
 
11 BAAQMD, Permitted Stationary Sources Risk and Hazards, Web: 
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2387ae674013413f987b1071715daa65

--- page 271 ---
14 
 
State Routes – J Arthur Younger Freeway (S.R. 92) & El Camino Real (S.R. 82) 
 
The project site and construction MEI are located near State Routes (S.R.) 92 and 82. A refined 
analysis of the impacts of TACs and PM2.5 from both routes on the project site and MEI receptor 
are necessary to evaluate potential cancer risks and PM2.5 concentrations from S.R. 92 and S.R. 
82. A review of the traffic information reported by the California Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans) indicates that S.R. 92 traffic includes 80,000 vehicles per day (based on an annual 
average)12 that are about 2.3 percent trucks, of which 0.9 percent are considered diesel heavy duty 
trucks and 1.4 percent are medium duty trucks.13 For S.R. 82, a review of the same information 
indicates that S.R. 82 traffic includes 38,400 vehicles per day (based on an annual average)11 that 
are about 1.3 percent trucks, of which 0.3 percent are considered diesel heavy duty trucks and 1.0 
percent are medium duty trucks.12 
 
Traffic Emissions Modeling 
 
This analysis involved the development of DPM, organic TACs, and PM2.5 emissions for traffic 
on both highways using the Caltrans version of the EMFAC2017 emissions model, known as CT-
EMFAC2017. CT-EMFAC2017 provides emission factors for mobile source criteria pollutants 
and TACs, including DPM. Emission processes modeled include running exhaust for DPM, PM2.5 
and total organic compounds (e.g., TOG), running evaporative losses for TOG, and tire and brake 
wear and fugitive road dust for PM2.5. All PM2.5 emissions from all vehicles were used, rather than 
just the PM2.5 fraction from diesel powered vehicles, because all vehicle types (i.e., gasoline and 
diesel powered) produce PM2.5. Additionally, PM2.5 emissions from vehicle tire and brake wear 
and from re-entrained roadway dust were included in these emissions. DPM emissions are 
projected to decrease in the future and are reflected in the CT-EMFAC2017 emissions data. Inputs 
to the model include region (i.e., San Mateo County), type of road (i.e., freeway), traffic mix 
assigned by CT-EMFAC2017 for the county and adjusted for the local truck mix on each highway, 
year of analysis (2023 – project operational year), and season (i.e., annual). 
 
In order to estimate TAC and PM2.5 emissions over the 30-year exposure period used for 
calculating increased cancer risks to the MEI from traffic on S.R. 92 and S.R. 82, the CT-
EMFAC2017 model was used to develop vehicle emission factors for the year 2023 (project 
operational year) using the calculated mix of cars and trucks on each route. Emissions associated 
with vehicle travel depend on the year of analysis because emission control technology 
requirements are phased-in over time. Therefore, the earlier the year analyzed in the model, the 
higher the emission rates utilized by CT-EMFAC2017. Year 2023 emissions were conservatively 
assumed as being representative of future conditions over the time period that cancer risks are 
evaluated (30 years), since, as discussed above, overall vehicle emissions, and in particular diesel 
truck emissions will decrease in the future.  
 
Average daily traffic volumes and truck percentages were based on Caltrans data for S.R. 92 and 
S.R. 82. Traffic volumes were assumed to increase 1 percent per year. Hourly traffic distributions 
specific to these segments of S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 were obtained from Caltrans Performance 
Measurement System (PeMS). PeMS data is collected in real-time from nearly 40,000 individual 
 
12 Caltrans. 2021. 2019 Traffic Volumes California State Highways. 
13 Caltrans. 2021. 2018 Annual Average Daily Truck Traffic on the California State Highway System

--- page 272 ---
15 
 
detectors spanning the freeway system across all major metropolitan areas of California.14 The 
fraction of traffic volume each hour was calculated and applied to the 2023 average daily traffic 
volumes estimate to estimate hourly traffic emission rates for S.R. 92 and S.R. 82. 
 
For all hours of the day, an average speed of 55 mph was assumed for all vehicles on S.R. 92 based 
on posted speed limit signs on the highway. For all hours of the day, other than during peak a.m. 
and p.m. periods, an average speed of 35 mph was assumed for all vehicles on S.R. 82 based on 
posted speed limit signs on the highway. Traffic speeds during the peak a.m. and p.m. periods on 
S.R. 82 were assumed to be 10 miles per hour slower (i.e., 25 mph) to account for congestion and 
the amount of access in the area.  
 
This analysis involved the development of DPM, organic TACs, and PM2.5 emissions for future 
traffic on S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 and used these emissions with an air quality dispersion model to 
calculate TAC and PM2.5 concentrations at the project MEI receptor location. Maximum increased 
lifetime cancer risks and annual PM2.5 concentrations for the receptor was then computed using 
modeled TAC and PM2.5 concentrations and BAAQMD methods and exposure parameters 
described in Attachment 1.  
 
Dispersion Modeling  
 
Dispersion modeling of TAC and PM2.5 emissions was conducted using the U.S. EPA AERMOD 
air quality dispersion model, which is recommended by the BAAQMD for this type of analysis.15 
TAC and PM2.5 emissions from traffic on S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 driving within 1,000 feet of the 
project site were evaluated. Vehicle traffic on the roadway was modeled using a series of adjacent 
volume sources along a line (line volume sources); with line segments used for the travel directions 
on the highways. The same meteorological data and off-site sensitive receptors used in the previous 
construction dispersion modeling were used in the highway modeling. Other inputs to the model 
included road geometry and elevations, hourly traffic emissions, and receptor locations. Roadway 
and receptor elevations were based on USGS National Elevation Data (NED) with a 10-meter 
resolution. Annual TAC and PM2.5 concentrations for 2023 from traffic on S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 
were calculated using the model. Concentrations were calculated at the construction MEI with 
receptor heights of 15 feet (4.5 meters) to represent the breathing heights on the second floor of 
residents in the multi-story apartment buildings nearby.    
 
Computed Cancer and Non-Cancer Health Impacts  
 
The cancer risk, PM2.5 concentration, and HI impacts from S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 on the construction 
MEI are shown in Table 5. Figure 2 shows the highway links used for the modeling and MEI 
location where concentrations were calculated. Details of the S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 traffic emission 
calculations, dispersion modeling, and cancer risk calculations for the construction MEI are 
provided in Attachment 5. 
 
 
 
 
14 https://dot.ca.gov/programs/traffic-operations/mpr/pems-source 
15 BAAQMD. Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards. May 2012

--- page 273 ---
16 
 
BAAQMD Permitted Stationary Sources 
 
Permitted stationary sources of air pollution near the project site were identified using BAAQMD’s 
Permitted Stationary Sources 2018 GIS website.16 This mapping tool identifies the location of 
nearby stationary sources and their estimated risk and hazard impacts. Five sources were identified 
using this tool with all five sources being diesel generators. A Stationary Source Information Form 
(SSIF) containing the identified sources was prepared and submitted to BAAQMD. BAAQMD 
provided input and clarification about the stationary sources.17 After further review and 
confirmation from BAAQMD,18 source #14785 was found to be located at another address not 
near the project site and would, therefore, not present any risk or hazard impacts at the site.  The 
locations and effects of the other four sources were confirmed. 
 
The screening average daily emissions for the four sources were adjusted for distance using 
BAAQMD’s Distance Adjustment Multiplier Tool for Diesel Internal Combustion Engines. 
Community risk impacts from the stationary sources upon the MEIs are reported in Table 5. 
 
Summary of Cumulative Health Risk Impact at Construction MEI 
  
Table 5 reports both the project and cumulative community risk impacts at the sensitive receptors 
most affected by construction (i.e., the MEI). The project would have an exceedance with respect 
to community risk caused by project construction activities, since the maximum before CoA cancer 
risk exceeds the BAAQMD single-source thresholds. With the implementation of Recommended 
Conditions of Approval (CoA) AQ-1 and AQ-2, the project’s cancer risks would be lowered to a 
level below the single-source thresholds. The cancer risk and PM2.5 concentration would not 
exceed the cumulative-source threshold.  
 
 
 
 
16 BAAQMD, Web: 
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2387ae674013413f987b1071715daa65 
17 Correspondence with Areana Flores, MSc, Environmental Planner, BAAQMD, April 8, 2021.  
18 Correspondence with Matthew Hanson, Environmental Planner, BAAQMD, April 27, 2021.

--- page 274 ---
17 
 
Table 5.  
Impacts from Combined Sources at Project MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
Project Impacts 
Project Construction                                                  Without CoA 
With CoA 
18.8 (infant) 
5.9 (infant) 
0.10 
0.04 
0.01 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
10.0 
0.3 
1.0 
Exceed Threshold?                                                Without CoA 
With CoA 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Cumulative Sources 
J Arthur Younger Freeway (S.R. 92), ADT 83,201 
5.2 
0.46 
<0.01 
El Camino Real (S.R. 82), ADT 39,936 
0.3 
0.03 
<0.01 
City of San Mateo City Hall (Facility ID #14783, Generators), 
MEI 560 feet 
0.1 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Casiopea Bovet LLC (Facility ID #15250, Generators), MEI 830 
feet 
0.04 
<0.01 
<0.01 
1730 S El Camino Real Partners LP (Facility ID #20790, 
Generators), MEI 1000+ feet 
0.1 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Park 20 (Facility ID #22742, Generators), MEI 50 feet 
0.3 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Combined Sources                                                     Without CoA 
With CoA 
24.84 (infant) 
11.94 (infant) 
<0.63 
<0.57 
<0.07 
<0.07 
                BAAQMD Cumulative Source Threshold 
100 
0.8 
10.0 
 Exceed Threshold?                                                 Without CoA 
With CoA 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
 
Construction activities, particularly during site preparation and grading, would temporarily 
generate fugitive dust in the form of PM10 and PM2.5. Sources of fugitive dust would include 
disturbed soils at the construction site and trucks carrying uncovered loads of soils. Unless properly 
controlled, vehicles leaving the site would deposit mud on local streets, which could be an 
additional source of airborne dust after it dries. The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines 
consider these impacts to be less-than-significant if best management practices are implemented 
to reduce these emissions. Recommended Measure AQ-1 would implement BAAQMD-
recommended best management practices. 
 
Recommended Measure AQ-1: Include measures to control dust and exhaust during 
construction. 
 
During any construction period ground disturbance, the applicant shall ensure that the project 
contractor implement measures to control dust and exhaust. Implementation of the measures 
recommended by BAAQMD and listed below would reduce the air quality impacts associated with 
grading and new construction to a less-than-significant level. Additional measures are identified 
to reduce construction equipment exhaust emissions. The contractor shall implement the following 
best management practices that are required of all projects: 
 
1. All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and 
unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day. 
 
2. All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be covered.

--- page 275 ---
18 
 
 
3. All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using wet 
power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is 
prohibited. 
 
4. All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph). 
 
5. All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as possible. 
Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil binders 
are used. 
 
6. Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use or 
reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California airborne 
toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of Regulations [CCR]). 
Clear signage shall be provided for construction workers at all access points. 
 
7. All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance with 
manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified mechanic and 
determined to be running in proper condition prior to operation. 
 
8. Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the Lead 
Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take corrective action 
within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be visible to ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. 
 
Effectiveness of Recommended Measure AQ-1 
 
The measures above are consistent with BAAQMD-recommended basic control measures for 
reducing fugitive particulate matter that are contained in the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality 
Guidelines. 
 
Recommended Condition of Approval AQ-2: Use construction equipment that has low diesel 
particulate matter exhaust emissions.  
 
A feasible plan to reduce emissions such that increased cancer risk and annual PM2.5 concentrations 
from construction would be reduced below significance levels is as follows: 
 
1. All construction equipment larger than 25 horsepower used at the site for more than two 
continuous days or 20 hours total shall meet U.S. EPA Tier 4 emission standards for 
particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5), if feasible, otherwise, 
 
a. Equipment that meets U.S. EPA emission standards for Tier 3 engines and include 
particulate matter emissions control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel 
emission control devices that altogether achieve a 50 percent reduction in 
particulate matter exhaust in comparison to uncontrolled equipment could be used; 
alternatively (or in combination),

--- page 276 ---
19 
 
 
b. Use of electrical or non-diesel fueled equipment. 
 
2. Alternatively, the applicant could develop a separate feasible plan that reduces on- and 
near-site construction diesel particulate matter emissions by 50 percent or greater.  Such a 
plan would have to be reviewed and approved by the City. 
 
Effectiveness of Recommended Condition of Approval AQ-2 
 
CalEEMod was used to compute emissions associated with this CoA measure assuming that all 
equipment met U.S. EPA Tier 4 interim engines standards and BAAQMD best management 
practices for construction were included. With these implemented, the project’s construction 
cancer risk impact, assuming infant exposure, would be reduced to 5.9 per million.  As a result, 
the project’s construction cancer risk would be reduced below the BAAQMD single-source 
threshold.  
 
On-Site Community Health Risk Impacts – New Project Residents 
 
In addition to evaluating health impact from project construction, a health risk assessment was 
completed to assess the impact existing TAC sources would have on the new proposed sensitive 
receptors (residents) that that project would introduce. The same TAC sources identified above 
were used in this health risk assessment.19  
 
State Routes – J Arthur Younger Freeway (S.R. 92) & El Camino Real (S.R. 82) 
 
The highway analysis for the new project residents was conducted in the same manner as described 
above for the off-site MEI. The project set of receptors were placed throughout the project area 
and were spaced every 23 feet (7 meters). Highway impacts were modeled at receptor heights of 
5 feet (1.5 meters) and 15 feet (4.5 meters) representing sensitive receptors on the first and second 
floors. Project sensitive receptors higher than the second floor would have highway impacts less 
than those on the second floor. The portions of S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 included in the modeling are 
shown in Figure 3 along with the project site and receptor locations where impacts were modeled.  
 
Maximum increased cancer risks were calculated for the residents at the project site using the 
maximum modeled TAC concentrations. A 30-year exposure period was used in calculating cancer 
risks assuming the residents would include third trimester pregnancy and infants/children and were 
assumed to be in the new housing area for 24 hours per day for 350 days per year. The maximum 
impacts from S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 occurred at a first-floor receptor along the northern boundary of 
the project site closest to the roadway. Cancer risks associated with S.R. 92 and S.R. 82 are greatest 
closest to S.R. 92 and decrease with distance from the highway. S.R. 82 has a minimal effect on 
the total cancer risk given its distance to the project site. The highway community risk impacts at 
 
19 We note that to the extent this analysis considers existing air quality issues in relation to the impact on future 
residents of the Project, it does so for informational purposes only pursuant to the judicial decisions in CBIA v. 
BAAQMD (2015) 62 Cal.4th 369, 386 and Ballona Wetlands Land Trust v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 201 
Cal.App.4th 455, 473, which confirm that the impacts of the environment on a project are excluded from CEQA 
unless the project itself “exacerbates” such impacts.

--- page 277 ---
20 
 
the project site are shown in Table 6. Risk values were computed using modeled DPM and PM2.5 
concentrations and BAAQMD recommended methods and exposure parameters described in 
Attachment 1. Details of the emission calculations, dispersion modeling, and cancer risk 
calculations are contained in Attachment 5.   
 
Figure 3.  
Project Site, On-Site Residential Receptors, Roadway Segments Evaluated, 
and Locations of Maximum Roadway TAC Impacts 
 
 
BAAQMD Stationary Sources 
 
The stationary source screening analysis for the new project sensitive receptors was conducted in 
the same manner as described above for the construction MEI. Table 6 shows the risk impacts 
from the stationary sources on the project receptors.  
 
Combined Community Health Risk at Project Site 
 
Community risk impacts from the existing TAC sources upon the project site are reported in Table 
6. The risks from the singular TAC sources are compared against the BAAQMD single-source 
threshold. The risks from all the sources are then combined and compared against the BAAQMD 
cumulative-source threshold. As shown, the HI and cancer risk from the nearby sources does not

--- page 278 ---
21 
 
exceed their single-source or cumulative-source thresholds. However, before CoA annual PM2.5 
concentrations are estimated to exceed their respective single-source and cumulative-source 
thresholds due to emissions from S.R. 92. 
 
Table 6. 
Cumulative Community Risk Impacts Upon the On-site Sensitive Receptors 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
J Arthur Younger Freeway (S.R. 92), ADT 83,201                           
Without CoA
With CoA
 
8.28 
5.11 
 
0.78 
0.24 
 
<0.01 
<0.01 
El Camino Real (S.R. 82), ADT 39,936 
0.17 
0.01 
<0.01 
City of San Mateo City Hall (Facility ID #14783, Generators), 
MEI 560 feet 
0.09 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Casiopea Bovet LLC (Facility ID #15250, Generators), MEI 830 
feet 
0.07 
<0.01 
<0.01 
1730 S El Camino Real Partners LP (Facility ID #20790, 
Generators), MEI 1000+ feet 
0.08 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Park 20 (Facility ID #22742, Generators), MEI 50 feet 
0.16 
<0.01 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold
>10.0 
>0.3 
>1.0 
 Exceed Threshold? 
No 
Yes 
No 
Cumulative Total                                                         Without CoA 
With CoA 
8.85 
5.68 
<0.83 
<0.29 
<0.07 
<0.07 
BAAQMD Cumulative Source Threshold 
>100 
>0.8 
>10.0 
 Exceed Threshold?                                                     Without CoA 
With CoA 
No 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
 
Recommended Design Features to Reduce Project Receptor Exposure 
 
Filtration in ventilation systems at the project site would be recommended to reduce the level of 
harmful pollutants to below the significant thresholds. The significant exposure for new project 
receptors is judged by two effects: (1) increased cancer risk, and (2) annual PM2.5 concentration. 
Exposure to annual PM2.5 concentrations from S.R. 92 are above the thresholds. These annual 
PM2.5 concentrations are based on the exposure to PM2.5 resulting from emissions attributable to 
truck and auto exhaust, the wearing of brakes and tires and re-entrainment of roadway dust from 
vehicles traveling over pavement. The modeled PM2.5 exposure to future residents drives the CoA. 
Reducing particulate matter exposure would reduce both annual PM2.5 exposures and cancer risk.  
 
The project shall include the following measures to minimize long-term increased cancer risk and 
annual PM2.5 exposure for new project occupants: 
  
1. Install air filtration for the entire residential building. Air filtration devices shall be rated 
MERV13 or higher. To ensure adequate health protection to sensitive receptors (i.e., 
residents), this ventilation system, whether mechanical or passive, shall filter all fresh air 
that would be circulated into the dwelling units.  
 
2. The ventilation system shall be designed to keep the building at positive pressure when 
doors and windows are closed to reduce the intrusion of unfiltered outside air into the 
building

--- page 279 ---
22 
 
 
3. As part of implementing this measure, an ongoing maintenance plan for the buildings’ 
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) air filtration system shall be required 
that includes regular filter replacement.  
 
4. Ensure that the use agreement and other property documents: (1) require cleaning, 
maintenance, and monitoring of the affected buildings for air flow leaks, (2) include 
assurance that new owners or tenants are provided information on the ventilation system, 
and (3) include provisions that fees associated with owning or leasing a unit(s) in the 
building include funds for cleaning, maintenance, monitoring, and replacements of the 
filters, as needed.  
 
Effectiveness of Recommended Design Features  
 
A properly installed and operated ventilation system with MERV13 would achieve an 80-percent 
reduction for small particulates.20 The overall effectiveness calculations take into account the 
amount of time spent outdoors and away from home. Assuming that the filtration system is 80-
percent effective and the individual is being exposed to 21 hours of indoor filtered air and three 
hours of outdoor unfiltered air, then the overall effectiveness of a MERV13 filtration system would 
be about 70-percent for PM2.5 exposure. For S.R. 92, this would reduce the maximum annual PM2.5 
concentration to 0.24 µg/m3. With this recommended design feature, impacts from S.R. 92 would 
be below their respective single- and cumulative-source thresholds. 
 
 
 
 
20 Bay Area Air Quality Management District (2016). Appendix B: Best Practices to Reduce Exposure to Local Air 
Pollution, Planning Healthy Places A Guidebook for Addressing Local Sources of Air Pollutants in Community 
Planning (p. 38). http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/planning-healthy-
places/php_may20_2016-pdf.pdf?la=en

--- page 280 ---
23 
Supporting Documentation 
Attachment 1 is the methodology used to compute community risk impacts, including the methods 
to compute lifetime cancer risk from exposure to project emissions. 
Attachment 2 includes the CalEEMod output for project construction emissions. Also included are 
any modeling assumptions. 
Attachment 3 includes the EMFAC2017 emissions modeling. The input files for these calculations 
are voluminous and are available upon request in digital format.  
Attachment 4 is the construction health risk assessment. This includes the summary of the 
dispersion modeling and the cancer risk calculations for construction. AERMOD dispersion 
modeling files for this assessment, which are quite voluminous, are available upon request and 
would be provided in digital format 
Attachment 5 includes the cumulative community risk calculations, modeling results, and health 
risk calculations from sources affecting the construction MEI and project site receptors.

--- page 281 ---
Attachment 1: Health Risk Calculation Methodology 
 
A health risk assessment (HRA) for exposure to Toxic Air Contaminates (TACs) requires the 
application of a risk characterization model to the results from the air dispersion model to estimate 
potential health risk at each sensitive receptor location. The State of California Office of 
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) and California Air Resources Board 
(CARB) develop recommended methods for conducting health risk assessments. The most recent 
OEHHA risk assessment guidelines were published in February of 2015.21 These guidelines 
incorporate substantial changes designed to provide for enhanced protection of children, as 
required by State law, compared to previous published risk assessment guidelines. CARB has 
provided additional guidance on implementing OEHHA’s recommended methods.22  This HRA 
used the 2015 OEHHA risk assessment guidelines and CARB guidance. The BAAQMD has 
adopted recommended procedures for applying the newest OEHHA guidelines as part of 
Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants.23 Exposure parameters 
from the OEHHA guidelines and the recent BAAQMD HRA Guidelines were used in this 
evaluation.  
 
Cancer Risk 
 
Potential increased cancer risk from inhalation of TACs is calculated based on the TAC 
concentration over the period of exposure, inhalation dose, the TAC cancer potency factor, and an 
age sensitivity factor to reflect the greater sensitivity of infants and children to cancer causing 
TACs. The inhalation dose depends on a person’s breathing rate, exposure time and frequency and 
duration of exposure. These parameters vary depending on the age, or age range, of the persons 
being exposed and whether the exposure is considered to occur at a residential location or other 
sensitive receptor location. 
 
The current OEHHA guidance recommends that cancer risk be calculated by age groups to account 
for different breathing rates and sensitivity to TACs. Specifically, they recommend evaluating 
risks for the third trimester of pregnancy to age zero, ages zero to less than two (infant exposure), 
ages two to less than 16 (child exposure), and ages 16 to 70 (adult exposure). Age sensitivity 
factors (ASFs) associated with the different types of exposure are an ASF of 10 for the third 
trimester and infant exposures, an ASF of 3 for a child exposure, and an ASF of 1 for an adult 
exposure. Also associated with each exposure type are different breathing rates, expressed as liters 
per kilogram of body weight per day (L/kg-day) or liters per kilogram of body weight per 8-hour 
period for the case of worker or school child exposures. As recommended by the BAAQMD for 
residential exposures, 95th percentile breathing rates are used for the third trimester and infant 
exposures, and 80th percentile breathing rates for child and adult exposures. For children at schools 
and daycare facilities, BAAQMD recommends using the 95th percentile 8-hour breathing rates. 
Additionally, CARB and the BAAQMD recommend the use of a residential exposure duration of 
 
21 OEHHA, 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, The Air Toxics Hot Spots Program 
Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. 
February. 
22 CARB, 2015. Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics. July 23. 
23 BAAQMD, 2016. BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program Health Risk Assessment ( HRA) Guidelines. December 2016.

--- page 282 ---
30 years for sources with long-term emissions (e.g., roadways). For workers, assumed to be adults, 
a 25-year exposure period is recommended by the BAAQMD. For school children a 9-year 
exposure period is recommended by the BAAQMD. 
 
Under previous OEHHA and BAAQMD HRA guidance, residential receptors are assumed to be 
at their home 24 hours a day, or 100 percent of the time. In the 2015 Risk Assessment Guidance, 
OEHHA includes adjustments to exposure duration to account for the fraction of time at home 
(FAH), which can be less than 100 percent of the time, based on updated population and activity 
statistics. The FAH factors are age-specific and are: 0.85 for third trimester of pregnancy to less 
than 2 years old, 0.72 for ages 2 to less than 16 years, and 0.73 for ages 16 to 70 years. Use of the 
FAH factors is allowed by the BAAQMD if there are no schools in the project vicinity have a 
cancer risk of one in a million or greater assuming 100 percent exposure (FAH = 1.0).  
 
Functionally, cancer risk is calculated using the following parameters and formulas: 
 
Cancer Risk (per million) = CPF x Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x FAH x 106 
Where: 
CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)-1 
 
 
 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group 
 
 
 
ED = Exposure duration (years) 
 
 
 
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years) 
 
 
 
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless) 
 
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR* x A x (EF/365) x 10-6 
Where: 
Cair = concentration in air (μg/m3) 
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day) 
8HrBR = 8-hour breathing rate (L/kg body weight-8 hours)  
A = Inhalation absorption factor 
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year) 
10-6 = Conversion factor 
 
The health risk parameters used in this evaluation are summarized as follows:  
 
Exposure Type 
Infant
Child 
Adult
Parameter 
Age Range 
3rd 
Trimester
0<2
2 < 16 
16 - 30
DPM Cancer Potency Factor (mg/kg-day)-1 
1.10E+00 
1.10E+00
1.10E+00 1.10E+00
Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day) 80th Percentile Rate
273
758
572 
261
Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day) 95th Percentile Rate
361
1,090
745 
335
8-hour Breathing Rate (L/kg-8 hours) 95th Percentile Rate
-
1,200
520 
240
Inhalation Absorption Factor  
1
1
1 
1
Averaging Time (years) 
70
70
70 
70
Exposure Duration (years) 
0.25
2
14 
14*
Exposure Frequency (days/year) 
350
350
350 
350*
Age Sensitivity Factor 
10
10
3 
1
Fraction of Time at Home (FAH) 
0.85-1.0
0.85-1.0
0.72-1.0 
0.73*
* An 8-hour breathing rate (8HrBR) is used for worker and school child exposures.

--- page 283 ---
Non-Cancer Hazards 
 
Non-cancer health risk is usually determined by comparing the predicted level of exposure to a 
chemical to the level of exposure that is not expected to cause any adverse effects (reference 
exposure level), even to the most susceptible people. Potential non-cancer health hazards from 
TAC exposure are expressed in terms of a hazard index (HI), which is the ratio of the TAC 
concentration to a reference exposure level (REL). OEHHA has defined acceptable concentration 
levels for contaminants that pose non-cancer health hazards. TAC concentrations below the REL 
are not expected to cause adverse health impacts, even for sensitive individuals. The total HI is 
calculated as the sum of the HIs for each TAC evaluated and the total HI is compared to the 
BAAQMD significance thresholds to determine whether a significant non-cancer health impact 
from a project would occur.  
 
Typically, for residential projects located near roadways with substantial TAC emissions, the 
primary TAC of concern with non-cancer health effects is diesel particulate matter (DPM). For 
DPM, the chronic inhalation REL is 5 micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m3).  
 
Annual PM2.5 Concentrations 
 
While not a TAC, fine particulate matter (PM2.5) has been identified by the BAAQMD as a 
pollutant with potential non-cancer health effects that should be included when evaluating 
potential community health impacts under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The 
thresholds of significance for PM2.5 (project level and cumulative) are in terms of an increase in 
the annual average concentration. When considering PM2.5 impacts, the contribution from all 
sources of PM2.5 emissions should be included. For projects with potential impacts from nearby 
local roadways, the PM2.5 impacts should include those from vehicle exhaust emissions, PM2.5 
generated from vehicle tire and brake wear, and fugitive emissions from re-suspended dust on the 
roads.

--- page 284 ---
Attachment 2: CalEEMod Modeling Inputs and Outputs

--- page 285 ---
Air Quality/Noise Construction Information Data Request
Project Name: 
1919 O'Farrell
See  Equipment Type TAB for type, horsepower and load factor
Project Size
49 Dwelling Units
0.63 total project acres disturbed
55700 s.f. residential
Pile Driving? Y/N?  NO
N/A s.f. retail
N/A s.f. office/commercial
Project include OPERATIONAL GENERATOR OR FIRE PUMP on-site? Y/N? _N___
s.f. other, specify:
IF YES (if BOTH separate values) -->
22454 s.f. parking garage
64 spaces
Kilowatts/Horsepower:  __________
N/A s.f. parking lot
N/A spaces
Fuel Type:  _____________
Construction Hours
7 am   to
4 pm
Location in project (Plans Desired if Available):
DO NOT MULTIPLY EQUIPMENT HOURS/DAY BY THE QUANTITY OF EQUIPMENT
Quantity
Description
HP
Load Factor
Hours/day
Total 
Work 
Days
Avg. 
Hours per 
day
HP 
Annual 
Hours
Comments
Demolition 
Start Date:
1/3/2022 Total phase:
8
Overall Import/Export Volumes
End Date:
7/1/2023
Concrete/Industrial Saws
81
0.73
0
0
Demolition Volume
1
Excavators
158
0.38
8
8
8
3843
Square footage of buildings to be demolished
Rubber-Tired Dozers
247
0.4
0
0
(or  total tons to be hauled)
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
8
8
8
2297
_14798_ square feet or
Other Equipment?
_?_ Hauling volume (tons)
Any pavement demolished and hauled? _TBD_ tons
Site Preparation
Start Date:
1/17/2022 Total phase:
5
End Date:
1/24/2022
1
Graders
187
0.41
8
5
8
3067
Rubber Tired Dozers
247
0.4
0
0
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
0
0
Other Equipment?
Grading / Excavation 
Start Date:
1/24/2022 Total phase:
15
End Date:
2/21/2022
Soil Hauling Volume
2
Excavators
158
0.38
8
15
8
14410
Export volume =  7,225  cubic yards?
Graders
187
0.41
0
0
Import volume = 150 cubic yards?
Rubber Tired Dozers
247
0.4
0
0
Concrete/Industrial Saws
81
0.73
0
0
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
8
15
8
4307
Other Equipment?
Trenching/Foundation
Start Date:
2/22/2022 Total phase:
20
End Date:
4/18/2022
1
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe
97
0.37
3
20
3
2153
Excavators
158
0.38
0
0
Other Equipment?
Building - Exterior
Start Date:
4/22/2022 Total phase:
55
Cement Trucks? _178_ Total Round-Trips
End Date:
4/20/2023
1
Cranes
231
0.29
5
15 1.36363636
5024
Electric? (Y/N) _N_ Otherwise assumed diesel
1
Forklifts
89
0.2
5
55
5
4895
Liquid Propane (LPG)? (Y/N) _N__ Otherwise Assumed diesel
Generator Sets
84
0.74
0
0
Or temporary line power? (Y/N) ___TEMPPORARY POWER
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
0
0
1
Welders
46
0.45
3
25 1.36363636
1553
Other Equipment?
Building - Interior/Architectural Coating
Start Date:
8/1/2022 Total phase:
60
End Date:
11/15/2022
3
Air Compressors
78
0.48
5
60
5
33696
Aerial Lift
62
0.31
0
0
Other Equipment?
Paving 
Start Date:
6/1/2022 Total phase:
2
Start Date:
6/8/2022
Cement and Mortar Mixers
9
0.56
0
0
Pavers
130
0.42
0
0
1
Paving Equipment
132
0.36
6
2
6
570
1
Rollers
80
0.38
3
1
1.5
91
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
3
2
3
215
Other Equipment?
Additional Phases
Start Date:
Total phase:
Start Date:
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
Equipment types listed in "Equipment Types" worksheet tab.
Equipment listed in this sheet is to provide an example of inputs
Complete one sheet for each project component
It is assumed that water trucks would be used during grading
Add or subtract phases and equipment, as appropriate
Modify horsepower or load factor, as appropriate
Complete ALL Portions in Yellow
Asphalt? _0__ cubic yards or ____ round trips?

--- page 286 ---
Off-road Equipment - Building construction equipment and hours provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Demolition equipment and hours provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Grading equipment and hours provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Paving equipment and hours provided by client
1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data
Project Characteristics - 
Land Use - Acreage and Square footage provided by client
Construction Phase - Construction phases and durations provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Demolition equipment and hours provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Architectural coating equipment and hours provided by client
CO2 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
CH4 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
N2O Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
70
Climate Zone
5
Operational Year
2024
Utility Company
1.2 Other Project Characteristics
Urbanization
Urban
Wind Speed (m/s)
2.2
Precipitation Freq (Days)
Apartments Mid Rise
49.00
Dwelling Unit
0.63
55,700.00
140
Floor Surface Area
Population
Enclosed Parking Structure
64.00
Space
0.00
22,454.00
0
1.0 Project Characteristics
1.1 Land Usage
Land Uses
Size
Metric
Lot Acreage
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2016.3.1
Page 1 of 1
Date: 4/1/2021 12:12 PM
1919 O'Farrell St - San Mateo County, Annual
1919 O'Farrell St
San Mateo County, Annual

--- page 287 ---
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
100.00
55.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
10.00
8.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
5.00
60.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
5.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
4.00
tblConstDustMitigation
WaterUnpavedRoadVehicleSpeed
40
15
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
3.00
Trips and VMT - Trips entered into EMFAC2017 spreadsheet
Demolition - Building demolition = 3,798 sqft (provided), pavement demolition = 11,000 sqft (estimated viaGoogle Earth)
Grading - 
Architectural Coating - 
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - All equipment t4i
Table Name
Column Name
Default Value
New Value
Off-road Equipment - Site Prep equipment and duration provided by client
Off-road Equipment - Trenching equipment and hours provided by client

--- page 288 ---
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
10.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
5.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
922.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
VendorTripNumber
9.00
0.00
tblProjectCharacteristics
OperationalYear
2018
2024
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
67.00
0.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
7.00
3.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
6.00
5.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
6.00
5.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
7.00
1.50
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
6.00
8.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
4.00
1.40
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
1.00
3.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
UsageHours
6.00
8.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
2.00
1.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
2.00
1.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
1.29
0.63
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
2.00
1.00
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
49,000.00
55,700.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.58
0.00
tblLandUse
BuildingSpaceSquareFeet
49,000.00
55,700.00
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
25,600.00
22,454.00
tblGrading
MaterialImported
0.00
150.00
tblLandUse
BuildingSpaceSquareFeet
25,600.00
22,454.00
tblFleetMix
FleetMixLandUseSubType
Apartments Mid Rise
Enclosed Parking Structure
tblGrading
MaterialExported
0.00
7,225.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
1.00
5.00
tblFleetMix
FleetMixLandUseSubType
Enclosed Parking Structure
Apartments Mid Rise
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
2.00
15.00
tblConstructionPhase
NumDays
5.00
2.00

--- page 289 ---
0.0000
62.9315
62.9315
0.0135
0.0000
63.2698
6.6000e-
003
6.0000e-
003
0.0126
1.9900e-
003
5.7400e-
003
7.7300e-
003
Maximum
0.4171
0.3113
0.4844
7.3000e-
004
0.0000
62.9315
62.9315
0.0135
0.0000
63.2698
6.6000e-
003
6.0000e-
003
0.0126
1.9900e-
003
5.7400e-
003
7.7300e-
003
2022
0.4171
0.3113
0.4844
7.3000e-
004
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
62.9316
62.9316
0.0135
0.0000
63.2699
0.0147
0.0197
0.0343
4.4100e-
003
0.0187
0.0232
Maximum
0.4400
0.3698
0.4559
7.3000e-
004
0.0000
62.9316
62.9316
0.0135
0.0000
63.2699
0.0147
0.0197
0.0343
4.4100e-
003
0.0187
0.0232
2022
0.4400
0.3698
0.4559
7.3000e-
004
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
Unmitigated Construction
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
9.00
0.00
2.0 Emissions Summary
2.1 Overall Construction
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
45.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
20.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
13.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
3.00
0.00

--- page 290 ---
Mitigated Operational
7.8222
281.8234
289.6456
0.3881
3.1600e-
003
300.2870
0.2728
0.0286
0.3013
0.0733
0.0284
0.1017
Total
0.4531
0.2218
1.2856
3.2200e-
003
1.0129
0.0000
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Water
4.5754
0.0000
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Waste
0.0000
250.3979
250.3979
8.9300e-
003
0.0000
250.6211
0.2728
2.1800e-
003
0.2750
0.0733
2.0300e-
003
0.0753
Mobile
0.0673
0.1892
0.7547
2.7300e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
30.0903
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
Energy
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
1.6000e-
004
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Area
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5200
3.3000e-
004
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
Unmitigated Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Highest
0.3304
0.2891
2.2 Overall Operational
2
4-3-2022
7-2-2022
0.3304
0.2891
3
7-3-2022
9-30-2022
0.2959
0.2745
Quarter
Start Date
End Date
Maximum Unmitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
Maximum Mitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
1
1-3-2022
4-2-2022
0.1784
0.1597
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
55.01
69.47
63.29
54.88
69.37
66.61
NBio-CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
5.21
15.81
-6.25
0.00
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10

--- page 291 ---
60
Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 2.5
7
Architectural Coating
Architectural Coating
5/28/2022
8/19/2022
5
55
6
Paving
Paving
5/26/2022
5/27/2022
5
2
5
Building Construction
Building Construction
3/10/2022
5/25/2022
5
15
4
Trenching
Trenching
2/10/2022
3/9/2022
5
20
3
Grading
Grading
1/20/2022
2/9/2022
5
8
2
Site Preparation
Site Preparation
1/13/2022
1/19/2022
5
5
End Date
Num Days 
Week
Num Days
Phase Description
1
Demolition
Demolition
1/3/2022
1/12/2022
5
3.0 Construction Detail
Construction Phase
Phase 
Number
Phase Name
Phase Type
Start Date
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
NBio-CO2
Total 
CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
7.8222
281.8234
289.6456
0.3881
3.1600e-
003
300.2870
0.2728
0.0286
0.3013
0.0733
0.0284
0.1017
Total
0.4531
0.2218
1.2856
3.2200e-
003
1.0129
0.0000
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Water
4.5754
0.0000
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Waste
0.0000
250.3979
250.3979
8.9300e-
003
0.0000
250.6211
0.2728
2.1800e-
003
0.2750
0.0733
2.0300e-
003
0.0753
Mobile
0.0673
0.1892
0.7547
2.7300e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
30.0903
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
Energy
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
1.6000e-
004
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Area
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5200
3.3000e-
004
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 292 ---
Site Preparation
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Building Construction
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
2
8.00
97
0.37
Grading
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
1.00
247
0.40
Demolition
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
1.00
247
0.40
Paving
Pavers
1
7.00
130
0.42
Grading
Concrete/Industrial Saws
1
8.00
81
0.73
Demolition
Concrete/Industrial Saws
1
8.00
81
0.73
Paving
Cement and Mortar Mixers
4
6.00
9
0.56
Architectural Coating
Air Compressors
3
5.00
78
0.48
Paving
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
3.00
97
0.37
Paving
Rollers
1
1.50
80
0.38
Paving
Paving Equipment
1
6.00
132
0.36
Building Construction
Welders
1
1.40
46
0.45
Building Construction
Forklifts
1
5.00
89
0.20
Building Construction
Cranes
1
1.40
231
0.29
Trenching
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
3.00
97
0.37
Grading
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Grading
Excavators
2
8.00
158
0.38
Site Preparation
Graders
1
8.00
187
0.41
Demolition
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Demolition
Excavators
1
8.00
158
0.38
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Load Factor
Excavators
1
8.00
158
0.38
OffRoad Equipment
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment Type
Amount
Usage Hours
Horse Power
Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 0
Acres of Paving: 0
Residential Indoor: 112,793; Residential Outdoor: 37,598; Non-Residential Indoor: 0; Non-Residential Outdoor: 0; Striped Parking Area:

--- page 293 ---
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
5.4628
1.1000e-
003
1.4400e-
003
2.5400e-
003
0.0000
5.4333
5.4333
5.4628
Total
3.3200e-
003
0.0294
0.0384
6.0000e-
005
7.2800e-
003
1.5100e-
003
8.7900e-
003
1.4400e-
003
0.0000
5.4333
5.4333
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
6.0000e-
005
1.5100e-
003
1.5100e-
003
1.4400e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
3.3200e-
003
0.0294
0.0384
0.0000
7.2800e-
003
1.1000e-
003
0.0000
1.1000e-
003
0.0000
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Fugitive Dust
7.2800e-
003
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Use Cleaner Engines for Construction Equipment
Water Exposed Area
Reduce Vehicle Speed on Unpaved Roads
Clean Paved Roads
3.2 Demolition - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction
Architectural Coating
3
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Paving
8
0.00
0.00
0.00
Building Construction
5
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Trenching
1
0.00
0.00
0.00
Grading
5
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Site Preparation
2
0.00
0.00
0.00
Demolition
4
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length
Hauling Trip 
Length
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor 
Vehicle 
Class
Hauling 
Vehicle 
Class
Trips and VMT
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment 
Count
Worker Trip 
Number
Vendor Trip 
Number
Hauling Trip 
Number

--- page 294 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
5.4333
5.4333
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
5.4628
3.2800e-
003
9.9000e-
004
4.2700e-
003
5.0000e-
004
9.7000e-
004
1.4700e-
003
Total
2.5300e-
003
0.0306
0.0413
6.0000e-
005
0.0000
5.4333
5.4333
1.1800e-
003
0.0000
5.4628
9.9000e-
004
9.9000e-
004
9.7000e-
004
9.7000e-
004
Off-Road
2.5300e-
003
0.0306
0.0413
6.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
3.2800e-
003
0.0000
3.2800e-
003
5.0000e-
004
0.0000
5.0000e-
004
Fugitive Dust
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 295 ---
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
2.1376
2.1376
6.9000e-
004
0.0000
2.1549
1.7400e-
003
6.4000e-
004
2.3800e-
003
2.1000e-
004
5.9000e-
004
8.0000e-
004
Total
1.4500e-
003
0.0173
9.9000e-
003
2.0000e-
005
0.0000
2.1376
2.1376
6.9000e-
004
0.0000
2.1549
6.4000e-
004
6.4000e-
004
5.9000e-
004
5.9000e-
004
Off-Road
1.4500e-
003
0.0173
9.9000e-
003
2.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.7400e-
003
0.0000
1.7400e-
003
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
2.1000e-
004
Fugitive Dust
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
3.3 Site Preparation - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr

--- page 296 ---
3.4 Grading - 2022
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
2.1376
2.1376
6.9000e-
004
0.0000
2.1549
7.8000e-
004
1.2000e-
004
9.0000e-
004
9.0000e-
005
1.1000e-
004
2.0000e-
004
Total
5.3000e-
004
8.0500e-
003
0.0146
2.0000e-
005
0.0000
2.1376
2.1376
6.9000e-
004
0.0000
2.1549
1.2000e-
004
1.2000e-
004
1.1000e-
004
1.1000e-
004
Off-Road
5.3000e-
004
8.0500e-
003
0.0146
2.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
7.8000e-
004
0.0000
7.8000e-
004
9.0000e-
005
0.0000
9.0000e-
005
Fugitive Dust
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 297 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
13.5895
13.5895
3.3100e-
003
0.0000
13.6723
5.6500e-
003
3.4800e-
003
9.1300e-
003
3.1000e-
003
3.2900e-
003
6.3900e-
003
Total
7.7400e-
003
0.0685
0.0965
1.6000e-
004
0.0000
13.5895
13.5895
3.3100e-
003
0.0000
13.6723
3.4800e-
003
3.4800e-
003
3.2900e-
003
3.2900e-
003
Off-Road
7.7400e-
003
0.0685
0.0965
1.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
5.6500e-
003
0.0000
5.6500e-
003
3.1000e-
003
0.0000
3.1000e-
003
Fugitive Dust
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 298 ---
0.0000
1.0248
1.0248
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
1.0331
3.4000e-
004
3.4000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
Total
6.2000e-
004
6.2800e-
003
8.3900e-
003
1.0000e-
005
0.0000
1.0248
1.0248
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
1.0331
3.4000e-
004
3.4000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
3.1000e-
004
Off-Road
6.2000e-
004
6.2800e-
003
8.3900e-
003
1.0000e-
005
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
3.5 Trenching - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
13.5895
13.5895
3.3100e-
003
0.0000
13.6723
2.5400e-
003
1.9300e-
003
4.4700e-
003
1.4000e-
003
1.8700e-
003
3.2700e-
003
Total
5.2100e-
003
0.0745
0.1069
1.6000e-
004
0.0000
13.5895
13.5895
3.3100e-
003
0.0000
13.6723
1.9300e-
003
1.9300e-
003
1.8700e-
003
1.8700e-
003
Off-Road
5.2100e-
003
0.0745
0.1069
1.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.5400e-
003
0.0000
2.5400e-
003
1.4000e-
003
0.0000
1.4000e-
003
Fugitive Dust
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr

--- page 299 ---
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
0.0000
1.0248
1.0248
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
1.0331
1.4000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
Total
4.0000e-
004
5.5400e-
003
8.6300e-
003
1.0000e-
005
0.0000
1.0248
1.0248
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
1.0331
1.4000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
Off-Road
4.0000e-
004
5.5400e-
003
8.6300e-
003
1.0000e-
005
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 300 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
20.6841
20.6841
6.5100e-
003
0.0000
20.8467
7.3000e-
003
7.3000e-
003
6.7400e-
003
6.7400e-
003
Total
0.0141
0.1375
0.1602
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
20.6841
20.6841
6.5100e-
003
0.0000
20.8467
7.3000e-
003
7.3000e-
003
6.7400e-
003
6.7400e-
003
Off-Road
0.0141
0.1375
0.1602
2.4000e-
004
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
3.6 Building Construction - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 301 ---
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
20.6840
20.6840
6.5100e-
003
0.0000
20.8467
2.3700e-
003
2.3700e-
003
2.2200e-
003
2.2200e-
003
Total
7.0800e-
003
0.1081
0.1686
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
20.6840
20.6840
6.5100e-
003
0.0000
20.8467
2.3700e-
003
2.3700e-
003
2.2200e-
003
2.2200e-
003
Off-Road
7.0800e-
003
0.1081
0.1686
2.4000e-
004
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 302 ---
Mitigated Construction On-Site
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.9130
0.9130
2.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.9196
2.5000e-
004
2.5000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
Total
5.8000e-
004
5.2000e-
003
6.5500e-
003
1.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.9130
0.9130
2.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.9196
2.5000e-
004
2.5000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
2.3000e-
004
Off-Road
5.8000e-
004
5.2000e-
003
6.5500e-
003
1.0000e-
005
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
3.7 Paving - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 303 ---
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
3.8 Architectural Coating - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.9130
0.9130
2.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.9196
1.5000e-
004
1.5000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
Total
4.5000e-
004
5.0600e-
003
7.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.9130
0.9130
2.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.9196
1.5000e-
004
1.5000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
1.4000e-
004
Off-Road
4.5000e-
004
5.0600e-
003
7.0100e-
003
1.0000e-
005
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 304 ---
0.0000
19.1494
19.1494
1.2500e-
003
0.0000
19.1806
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
Total
0.4009
0.0795
0.1374
2.2000e-
004
0.0000
19.1494
19.1494
1.2500e-
003
0.0000
19.1806
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
3.0000e-
004
Off-Road
4.0900e-
003
0.0795
0.1374
2.2000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Archit. Coating
0.3968
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
0.0000
19.1494
19.1494
1.2500e-
003
0.0000
19.1806
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
Total
0.4121
0.1056
0.1360
2.2000e-
004
0.0000
19.1494
19.1494
1.2500e-
003
0.0000
19.1806
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
6.1300e-
003
Off-Road
0.0153
0.1056
0.1360
2.2000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Archit. Coating
0.3968

--- page 305 ---
4.2 Trip Summary Information
0.0000
250.3979
250.3979
8.9300e-
003
0.0000
250.6211
0.2728
2.1800e-
003
0.2750
0.0733
2.0300e-
003
0.0753
Unmitigated
0.0673
0.1892
0.7547
2.7300e-
003
0.0000
250.3979
250.3979
8.9300e-
003
0.0000
250.6211
0.2728
2.1800e-
003
0.2750
0.0733
2.0300e-
003
0.0753
Mitigated
0.0673
0.1892
0.7547
2.7300e-
003
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10

--- page 306 ---
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
30.0903
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
NaturalGas 
Mitigated
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
1.6000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Electricity 
Mitigated
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.000505 0.000808
5.0 Energy Detail
Historical Energy Use: N
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy
ROG
NOx
CO
0.007113
0.024629
0.006618
0.004259
0.003067
0.009235
Enclosed Parking Structure
0.465886
0.050507
0.268464
0.141721
0.017188
0.006618
0.004259
0.003067
0.009235
0.000505 0.000808
SBUS
MH
Apartments Mid Rise
0.465886
0.050507
0.268464
0.141721
0.017188
0.007113
0.024629
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
Land Use 
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
4.4 Fleet Mix
15.00
54.00
86
11
3
Enclosed Parking Structure
9.50
7.30
7.30
0.00
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
Primary
Diverted
Pass-by
Apartments Mid Rise
10.80
4.80
5.70
31.00
4.3 Trip Type Information
Miles
Trip %
Trip Purpose %
Land Use
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
H-W or C-
W
Total
325.85
313.11
287.14
735,610
735,610
Enclosed Parking Structure
0.00
0.00
0.00
Annual VMT
Apartments Mid Rise
325.85
313.11
287.14
735,610
735,610
Average Daily Trip Rate
Unmitigated
Mitigated
Land Use
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Annual VMT

--- page 307 ---
30.0903
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Unmitigated
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
1.6000e-
004
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
30.0903
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
1.6000e-
004
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
560539
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
30.0903
Mitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
1.6000e-
004
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
30.0903
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.0900e-
003
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
1.6000e-
004
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
Apartments Mid 
Rise
560539
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
NBio- CO2 Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
0.0000
29.9125
29.9125
5.7000e-
004
5.5000e-
004
30.0903
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
2.0900e-
003
NaturalGas 
Unmitigated
3.0200e-
003
0.0258
0.0110
1.6000e-
004

--- page 308 ---
NBio- 
CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
0.0000
6.0 Area Detail
6.1 Mitigation Measures Area
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
147074
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
221548
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
147074
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
221548
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 309 ---
2.2339
0.9176
3.1515
3.5900e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.2849
0.0223
0.0223
0.0223
0.0223
Hearth
0.1131
2.6000e-
003
0.1557
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.2190
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0397
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
Mitigated
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Total
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5199
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
0.5955
0.5955
5.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.6098
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
Landscaping
0.0110
4.2000e-
003
0.3643
2.0000e-
005
2.2339
0.9176
3.1515
3.5900e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.2849
0.0223
0.0223
0.0223
0.0223
Hearth
0.1131
2.6000e-
003
0.1557
3.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.2190
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0397
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- 
CO2
6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Unmitigated
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5200
3.3000e-
004
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Mitigated
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5200
3.3000e-
004

--- page 310 ---
4.3456
Total
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
3.19255 / 
2.01269
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
7.2 Water by Land Use
Unmitigated
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Unmitigated
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
Category
t
o
n
MT/yr
Mitigated
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
7.0 Water Detail
7.1 Mitigation Measures Water
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
2.2339
1.5130
3.7469
4.1600e-
003
1.5000e-
004
3.8947
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
0.0243
Total
0.3827
6.8000e-
003
0.5199
3.3000e-
004
0.0000
0.5955
0.5955
5.7000e-
004
0.0000
0.6098
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
2.0200e-
003
Landscaping
0.0110
4.2000e-
003
0.3643
2.0000e-
005

--- page 311 ---
8.2 Waste by Land Use
Unmitigated
 Unmitigated
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
t
o
n
MT/yr
 Mitigated
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
4.3456
8.0 Waste Detail
8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste
Category/Year
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
4.3456
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
3.19255 / 
2.01269
1.0129
0.1040
2.4600e-
003
Mitigated
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 312 ---
Load Factor
Fuel Type
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
10.0 Stationary Equipment
Fire Pumps and Emergency Generators
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Hours/Year
Horse Power
11.3354
9.0 Operational Offroad
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Days/Year
Total
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
22.54
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
Mitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
11.3354
Enclosed Parking 
Structure
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
22.54
4.5754
0.2704
0.0000
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 313 ---
User Defined Equipment
Equipment Type
Number
11.0 Vegetation
Boilers
Equipment Type
Number
Heat Input/Day
Heat Input/Year
Boiler Rating
Fuel Type

--- page 314 ---
Attachment 3:  EMFAC2017 Calculations

--- page 315 ---
Pollutants
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
NBio‐ CO2
YEAR
Metric Tons
2022
0.0058
0.1159
0.0651
0.0005
0.0196
0.0054
0.0250
0.0030
0.0026
0.0056
51.4811
2022
0.0031
0.0159
0.0181
0.0000
0.0008
0.0002
0.0010
0.0001
0.0001
0.0002
3.2143
Summary of Construction Traffic Emissions (EMFAC2017) 
Tons
Criteria Pollutants
Toxic Air Contaminants (1 Mile Trip Length)

--- page 316 ---
Phase 
CalEEMod 
WORKER 
TRIPS
CalEEMod 
VENDOR 
TRIPS
Total 
Worker 
Trips
Total 
Vendor 
Trips
CalEEMod 
HAULING 
TRIPS
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length 
Hauling Trip 
Length 
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor Vehicle 
Class
Hauling Vehicle 
Class
Worker 
VMT
Vendor 
VMT
Hauling 
VMT
Demolition
5
0
40
0
67
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
432
0
1340
Site Preparation
3
0
15
0
922
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
162
0
18440
Grading
8
0
120
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
1296
0
0
Trenching
3
0
60
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
648
0
0
Building Construction
45
9
2475
495
178
10.8
7.3
7.3 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
26730
3613.5
1299.4
Architectural Coating
9
0
540
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
5832
0
0
Paving
8
0
16
0
0
10.8
7.3
7.3 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
172.8
0
0
2022
1/3/22
10/21/22
292
210
294
210 Total Workdays
Phase 
Start Date
End Date 
Days/Week Workdays
Demolition
1/3/2022
1/12/2022
5
8
Site Preparation
1/17/2022
1/21/2022
5
5
Grading
1/24/2022
2/11/2022
5
15
Trenching
2/22/2022
3/21/2022
5
20
Building Construction
4/22/2022
7/7/2022
5
55
Architectural Coating
8/1/2022
10/21/2022
5
60
Paving
6/1/2022
6/2/2022
5
2
Number of Days Per Year
CalEEMod Construction Inputs

--- page 317 ---
Source: EMFAC2017 (v1.0.3) Emission Rates
Region Type: County
Region: San Mateo
Calendar Year: 2022
Season: Annual
Vehicle Classification: EMFAC2007 Categories
Units: miles/day for VMT, trips/day for Trips, g/mile for RUNEX, PMBW and PMTW, g/trip for STREX, HOTSOAK and RUNLOSS, g/vehicle/day for IDLEX, RESTLOSS and DIURN
Region
Calendar Y Vehicle CatModel Yea Speed
Fuel
PopulationVMT
Trips
NOx_RUNENOx_IDLEXNOx_STREXPM2.5_RU PM2.5_IDLPM2.5_STRPM2.5_PMPM2.5_PMPM10_RUNPM10_IDLEPM10_STR PM10_PMTPM10_PMBCO2_RUNECO2_IDLEXCO2_STREXCH4_RUNECH4_IDLEXCH4_STREXN2O_RUNEN2O_IDLEXN2O_STREXROG_RUNEROG_IDLEXROG_STREXROG_HOTSROG_RUNLROG_REST ROG_DIUR TOG_RUNETOG_IDLEXTOG_STREXTOG_HOTSTOG_RUNLTOG_RESTLTOG_DIUR CO_RUNEXCO_IDLEX CO_STREX SOx_RUNE SOx_IDLEX SOx_STREX
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
2.777853
472.715 55.57928 2.748403
0
0.013457 0.000841
0
0.000287
0.005
0.02646 0.000914
0
0.000312
0.02
0.06174 1993.356
0
47.87156 0.066368
0
0.000589 0.122942
0
0.000657 0.295052
0
0.003082 0.032556 0.152655 0.008908 0.013368
0.43054
0
0.003374 0.032556 0.152655 0.008908 0.013368 26.85146
0
6.517482 0.019726
0
0.000474
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1215.42 107659.4 10539.66 4.165704 50.99253 2.212041
0.03369 0.041677
0
0.008693 0.025559 0.035214 0.043562
0
0.034774 0.059637 1648.504 8572.517
0
0.004229 0.152316
0
0.259122
1.34748
0
0.091043
3.27933
0
0
0
0
0
0.103645 3.733267
0
0
0
0
0
0.380722 42.35619
0
0.015574 0.080989
0
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 134.8882 5494.913
526.064 1.204197 21.39831
0
0.00421 0.020699
0
0.009
0.02646 0.004401 0.021634
0
0.036
0.06174 3157.131 4089.807
0
3.342946 1.208742
0
0.643602 0.833734
0
0.116887 0.033614
0
0
0
0
0
3.490479 1.252231
0
0
0
0
0
10.906 19.18613
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
285883.4
8730359
1356969
0.03605
0
0.193174
0.00125
0
0.001731
0.002
0.01575
0.00136
0
0.001882
0.008
0.03675 254.7223
0
54.53474 0.002104
0
0.052491 0.004124
0
0.025575 0.008184
0
0.24181
0.09584 0.215371 0.166346 0.165388
0.01194
0
0.26475
0.09584 0.215371 0.166346 0.165388 0.581955
0
2.356656 0.002521
0
0.00054
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
3168.217 96975.13 14978.02 0.065635
0
0
0.005571
0
0
0.002
0.01575 0.005823
0
0
0.008
0.03675 201.5201
0
0
0.000546
0
0
0.031676
0
0
0.011746
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.013372
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.18472
0
0
0.001905
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
7621.214 256590.1 37762.18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01575
0
0
0
0.008
0.03675
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
41432.75
1266108 196720.5 0.063699
0
0.213989 0.001597
0
0.002094
0.002
0.01575 0.001737
0
0.002277
0.008
0.03675 290.5103
0
61.94231 0.003311
0
0.058348 0.005522
0
0.026341 0.014006
0
0.277497 0.117193 0.451758 0.222711 0.237262 0.020427
0
0.303823 0.117193 0.451758 0.222711 0.237262 0.787692
0
2.384672 0.002875
0
0.000613
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
16.25248 284.3033 56.05197 0.973767
0
0
0.132117
0
0
0.002
0.01575
0.13809
0
0
0.008
0.03675 403.6574
0
0
0.008132
0
0
0.063449
0
0
0.175077
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.199314
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.968724
0
0
0.003816
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
359.7921 12796.34 1812.632
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01575
0
0
0
0.008
0.03675
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
132267.5
4056131 631991.8 0.054439
0
0.253266
0.00135
0
0.001756
0.002
0.01575 0.001468
0
0.00191
0.008
0.03675 309.9528
0
67.29858 0.002693
0
0.063591 0.005055
0
0.030403 0.010574
0
0.290905
0.08787 0.321064 0.193616
0.17912 0.015425
0
0.318504
0.08787 0.321064 0.193616
0.17912 0.675215
0
2.833844 0.003067
0
0.000666
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1027.683 34465.38 5067.758 0.036059
0
0
0.00431
0
0
0.002
0.01575 0.004505
0
0
0.008
0.03675 272.2158
0
0
0.000608
0
0
0.042789
0
0
0.013089
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.014901
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.113636
0
0
0.002573
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
1743.196 47537.34
8780.26
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01575
0
0
0
0.008
0.03675
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
8860.681 296397.6 132010.9 0.164845 0.037097 0.481227 0.002071
0
0.000356
0.002
0.03276 0.002252
0
0.000387
0.008
0.07644 992.6659
119.525 18.77226 0.007781 0.119821 0.021008
0.01052 0.003169 0.039372 0.036446 0.425239 0.104681 0.089625 0.634387 0.018517 0.029926 0.053182 0.620507 0.114613 0.089625 0.634387 0.018517 0.029926 0.672007 3.760132 1.686748 0.009823 0.001183 0.000186
San Mateo
2022 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
5881.241 218648.3 73978.61 1.008919 1.817135
0
0.015674 0.026708
0
0.003
0.03276 0.016383 0.027916
0
0.012
0.07644 530.9331 129.4717
0
0.006468 0.005098
0
0.083455 0.020351
0
0.139258
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0
0.158536 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0
0.540902 0.909745
0
0.005019 0.001224
0
San Mateo
2022 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
1238.578 40924.28 18452.97 0.180484 0.036448 0.486851 0.002003
0
0.000323
0.002
0.03822 0.002179
0
0.000351
0.008
0.08918 1131.957 137.2937 21.32692 0.006639 0.117752 0.020688 0.011966 0.003025 0.038755 0.028918 0.417874 0.102654 0.089873 0.641758 0.017651 0.028619 0.042197
0.60976 0.112393 0.089873 0.641758 0.017651 0.028619 0.528397 3.761867 1.697237 0.011202 0.001359 0.000211
San Mateo
2022 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
2262.753 83013.72 28462.58 0.757324 1.796044
0
0.016155 0.026868
0
0.003
0.03822 0.016885 0.028083
0
0.012
0.08918
595.284 207.3357
0
0.006136 0.005098
0
0.09357
0.03259
0
0.132094
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0
0.15038 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0
0.510466 0.909745
0
0.005628
0.00196
0
San Mateo
2022 MCY
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
16529.54 149168.5 33059.08 1.153943
0
0.273469 0.001956
0
0.003138
0.001
0.00504 0.002094
0
0.003337
0.004
0.01176 213.0842
0
60.80181 0.329874
0
0.259736 0.066591
0
0.015569 2.210717
0
1.965768
0.5674 1.990179 0.756717 1.245335 2.749517
0
2.139822
0.5674 1.990179 0.756717 1.245335 19.01708
0
9.173957 0.002109
0
0.000602
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
80314
2499802 381574.2
0.06087
0
0.297162 0.001379
0
0.001889
0.002
0.01575
0.0015
0
0.002054
0.008
0.03675 372.4557
0
81.68051 0.002995
0
0.073
0.00551
0
0.032365
0.01208
0
0.352502 0.099964 0.339622 0.228954 0.209677 0.017601
0
0.385941 0.099964 0.339622 0.228954 0.209677 0.708583
0
3.157881 0.003686
0
0.000808
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
2272.544 78162.23 11166.87 0.030566
0
0
0.003443
0
0
0.002
0.01575 0.003598
0
0
0.008
0.03675 354.0945
0
0
0.000407
0
0
0.055659
0
0
0.008755
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.009967
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.162994
0
0
0.003347
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
791.7548 22645.44 4049.972
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01575
0
0
0
0.008
0.03675
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0.004888
0
0.003128 0.012002
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
1080.218 11056.79
108.065 0.243025
0
0.33071 0.001467
0
0.000343
0.003
0.05586 0.001595
0
0.000373
0.012
0.13034 1694.184
0
24.78959 0.009323
0
0.030643 0.018018
0
0.037255 0.037663
0
0.123517 0.051682 1.255047
0.02193 0.051653 0.054958
0
0.135236 0.051682 1.255047
0.02193 0.051653 0.903608
0
2.791484 0.016765
0
0.000245
San Mateo
2022 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
406.2479 4155.317 40.62479 3.121607
0
0
0.049181
0
0
0.004
0.05586 0.051405
0
0
0.016
0.13034 992.5125
0
0
0.003823
0
0
0.156009
0
0
0.08231
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.093704
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.268912
0
0
0.009383
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
956.0975 56310.16
19129.6 0.401293 0.088681 0.375151 0.001267
0
0.000435
0.003
0.05586 0.001378
0
0.000473
0.012
0.13034 1713.287 529.7913 38.50416
0.01254 0.269583 0.039811 0.020842 0.007794 0.030516 0.060239 1.015611 0.211025 0.073361 0.429541 0.015892 0.025569
0.0879 1.481978 0.231046 0.073361 0.429541 0.015892 0.025569 1.376857 15.15013 4.694572 0.016954 0.005243 0.000381
San Mateo
2022 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
5059.28 329296.5 52181.07 1.960322 6.832488 1.758779 0.030959 0.013394
0
0.003
0.05586 0.032358 0.013999
0
0.012
0.13034 1018.114 861.5358
0
0.003362 0.004323
0
0.160033 0.135421
0
0.072373 0.093082
0
0
0
0
0
0.082391 0.105966
0
0
0
0
0
0.263752 2.486018
0
0.009619 0.008139
0
San Mateo
2022 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
309.4493 17506.11 6191.461
0.33037 0.065013 0.303626 0.001018
0
0.000244
0.003
0.05586 0.001107
0
0.000265
0.012
0.13034 1751.792 374.5056 25.80105 0.010497 0.206047 0.028879 0.018303 0.005993 0.026834 0.049402 0.745556 0.143567
0.02327 0.273775 0.015372 0.030329 0.072088 1.087914 0.157188
0.02327 0.273775 0.015372 0.030329 1.088572 5.770329 3.038446 0.017335 0.003706 0.000255
San Mateo
2022 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
640.9896 44517.47 5852.545 2.479476 10.18109 1.868753
0.0211 0.014245
0
0.003
0.05586 0.022055 0.014889
0
0.012
0.13034 1198.226 1839.754
0
0.002945 0.026687
0
0.188345 0.289184
0
0.063402 0.574566
0
0
0
0
0
0.072178 0.654099
0
0
0
0
0
0.255295 8.204825
0
0.01132 0.017381
0
San Mateo
2022 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
77.55394 3920.213 310.2158 0.624562 0.923435 0.499036 0.001669
0
0.000705
0.002
0.3192 0.001815
0
0.000767
0.008
0.7448 829.8891 2479.137 49.61529 0.018397 2.444511 0.064533 0.031012 0.089824
0.04739 0.090991 10.59598 0.372063 0.057941 0.422429 0.008158 0.017898 0.132774 15.46163 0.407362 0.057941 0.422429 0.008158 0.017898 2.030575 81.96501 10.05224 0.008212 0.024533 0.000491
San Mateo
2022 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
187.2294 5867.013 2160.601 8.328847
46.1304 0.635561 0.046003 0.057864
0
0.003
0.3192 0.048083 0.060481
0
0.012
0.7448 1161.116 3723.952
0
0.005644 0.013947
0
0.182511 0.585353
0
0.121506 0.300269
0
0
0
0
0
0.138326 0.341834
0
0
0
0
0
0.309322 5.361526
0
0.01097 0.035182
0
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
38.25826 926.8645
153.033 0.309327
0
0.947655
0.00108
0
0.000458
0.00277 0.051797 0.001175
0
0.000498 0.011079 0.120859 2030.959
0
92.62484 0.005436
0
0.113553 0.023538
0
0.07018 0.019935
0
0.563609 0.063702 0.409387 0.011307
0.01505 0.029089
0
0.617081 0.063702 0.409387 0.011307
0.01505 0.364269
0
8.245509 0.020098
0
0.000917
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
304.5567 24358.67 1218.227 3.892763
0
0
0.008124
0
0
0.007894 0.031881 0.008491
0
0
0.031575 0.074388 1767.776
0
0
0.243684
0
0
0.27787
0
0
0.003482
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.248697
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.395545
0
0
0.016712
0
0
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 39.98943
2699.2 159.9577 0.496847
0
0
0.003228
0
0
0.008689 0.027983 0.003374
0
0
0.034756 0.065295
2042.54
0
0
6.539969
0
0
0.416385
0
0
0.093443
0
0
0
0
0
0
6.674518
0
0
0
0
0
0
50.8863
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 318 ---
Attachment 4:  
Project Construction Emissions and Health Risk 
Calculations 
 
Construction Emissions and Health Risk Calculations 
 
 
 
 
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA
DPM Emissions and Modeling Emission Rates - Unmitigated
DPM
Modeled
Emission
Construction
DPM
Area
DPM Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
(ton/year)
Source
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
(g/s/m
2)
2022
Construction
0.0199
CON_DPM
39.8
0.01213
1.53E-03
2,885
5.30E-07
Total
0.0199
39.8
0.0121
0.0015
Construction Hours
hr/day =
9
(7am - 4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA
PM2.5 Fugitive Dust Emissions for Modeling - Unmitigated
PM2.5
Modeled Emission
Construction
Area
PM2.5 Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
Source
(ton/year)
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
g/s/m
2
2022
Construction
CON_FUG
0.0045
9.1
0.00276
3.48E-04
2,885
1.20E-07
Total
0.0045
9.1
0.0028
0.0003
Construction Hours
hr/day =
9
(7am - 4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285

--- page 319 ---
DPM Construction Emissions and Modeling Emission Rates - With Mitigation
DPM
Modeled
Emission
Construction
DPM
Area
DPM Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
(ton/year)
Source
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
(g/s/m
2)
2022
Construction
0.0062
CON_DPM
12.4
0.00379
4.77E-04
2,885
1.65E-07
Total
0.0062
12.4
0.0038
0.0005
Construction Hours
hr/day =
9
(7am - 4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285
PM2.5 Fugitive Dust Construction Emissions for Modeling - With Mitigation
PM2.5
Modeled Emission
Construction
Area
PM2.5 Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
Source
(ton/year)
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
g/s/m
2
2022
Construction
CON_FUG
0.0021
4.2
0.00129
1.62E-04
2,885
5.61E-08
Total
0.0021
4.2
0.0013
0.0002
Construction Hours
hr/day =
9
(7am - 4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285

--- page 320 ---
1919 O'Farrell St., San Mateo, CA
Construction Health Impact Summary
Maximum Impacts at MEI Location - Without Mitigation
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Cancer Risk
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Emissions
PM10/DPM
PM2.5
(per million)
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
Infant/Child
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2026
0.0573
0.0441
18.80
0.01
0.10
2027
0.0000
0.0000
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total
-
-
18.80
-
-
Maximum
0.0573
0.0441
-
0.01
0.10
Maximum Impacts at MEI Location - With Mitigation
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Cancer Risk
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Emissions
PM10/DPM
PM2.5
(per million)
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
Infant/Child
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2026
0.0329
0.0109
5.85
0.007
0.04
2027
0.0000
0.0000
0.00
0.000
0.00
Total
-
-
5.85
-
-
Maximum
0.0329
0.0109
-
0.007
0.04
  - Tier 4 Interim Engine Mitigation
Maximum Impacts at Little Bloom Early Child Development Center
Unmitigated Emissions
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Child
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Construction
PM2.5/DPM
PM2.5
Cancer Risk
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
(per million)
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2026
0.0107
0.0026
5.14
0.002
0.01
2027
0.0000
0.0000
0.00
0.000
0.00
Total
-
-
5.1
-
-
Maximum
0.0107
0.0026
-
0.002
0.01

--- page 321 ---
1919 O'Farrell St., San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Mitigation
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 1.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022
0.0573
10
0.78
2022
0.0573
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022
0.0573
10
9.41
2022
0.0573
1
0.16
0.0115
0.0441
0.1014
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
10.2
0.16
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 322 ---
1919 O'Farrell St., San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Mitigation
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 4.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022
0.1057
10
1.44
2022
0.1057
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022
0.1057
10
17.36
2022
0.1057
1
0.30
0.0211
0.0233
0.1290
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
18.8
0.30
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 323 ---
1919 O'Farrell St., San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Mitigation
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 7.6 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022
0.0914
10
1.24
2022
0.0914
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022
0.0914
10
15.01
2022
0.0914
1
0.26
0.0183
0.0068
0.0983
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
16.3
0.26
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 324 ---
1919 O'Farrell St., San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Mitigation
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 4.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022
0.0329
10
0.45
2022
0.0329
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022
0.0329
10
5.41
2022
0.0329
1
0.09
0.0066
0.0109
0.0438
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
5.9
0.09
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 325 ---
Little Bloom Early Child Development Center, San Pablo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Mitigation
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Little Bloom Early Child Development Center - 1 meter - Infant Exposure
Student Cancer Risk (per million) = CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x SAF x 8-Hr BR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
SAF  = Student Adjustment Factor (unitless)
          = (24 hrs/9 hrs) x (7 days/5 days) = 3.73
8-Hr BR = Eight-hour breathing rate (L/kg body weight-per 8 hrs)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant
School Child
Adult
Age -->
0 - <2
2 - <16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
8-Hr BR* =
1200
520
240
A =
1
1
1
EF =
250
250
250
AT =
70
70
70
SAF =
3.73
3.73
1.00
* 95th percentile 8-hr breathing rates for moderate intensity activities
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Child - Exposure Information
Child
Exposure
Age*
Cancer
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
1
1
0 - 1
2022
0.0107
10
5.1
0.0021
0.0026
0.0132
2
1
0.0000
10
0.0
3
1
0.0000
3
0.0
4
1
0.0000
3
0.0
5
1
0.0000
3
0.0
6
1
0.0000
3
0.0
7
1
0.0000
3
0.0
8
1
0.0000
3
0.0
9
1
0.0000
3
0.0
Total Increased Cancer Risk
5.14
*  Children assumed to be 0 years of age or older with 1 years of Construction Exposure
Maximum

--- page 326 ---
Attachment 5:  
Community Risk Modeling Information and Calculations 
 
CT-EMFAC2017 Emissions Factors for J Arthur Younger Freeway (S.R.92) and El Camino Real 
(S.R. 82)

--- page 327 ---
File Name: El Camino 2023.EF
CT-EMFAC2@17 Version: 1.0.2.27401
Run Date: 4/6/2021 11:29:24 AM
Area: San Mateo (SF)
Analysis Year: 2023
Season: Annual

Vehicle Category VMT Fraction Diesel VMT Fraction
Across Category Within Category

Truck 1 8.018 8.482

Truck 2 8.003 8.870

Non-Truck @.987 @.017

Road Type: Freeway

Silt Loading Factor: CARB @.015 g/m2
Precipitation Correction: CARB P = 6@ days

Fleet Average Running Exhaust Emission Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name 25 mph 3@ mph 35 mph
PM2.5 0.002031 0.001607 @.001341

TOG @.053871 @.042947 @.036009

Diesel PM @.000201 @.000179 @.000167

Fleet Average Running Loss Emission Factors (grams/veh-hour)

Pollutant Name Emission Factor
TOG 1.187879

Fleet Average Tire Wear Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name Emission Factor
PM2.5 @.002017

Fleet Average Brake Wear Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name Emission Factor
PM2.5 @.016313

Fleet Average Road Dust Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name Emission Factor
PM2.5 @.006964

eueeesesesessesssessesssesssefN\)=ss2eeeeeeseesseeeseeeseeesssessesssess

Gas VMT Fraction
Within Category
8.518
@.113
8.960

N = 365 days


--- page 328 ---
S.R. 92 Traffic Emissions and Health Risk Calculations 
   
 
 
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger Freeway
DPM Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and DPM Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length   
(m)
Link 
Length    
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
DPM_EB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Eastbound
EB
2
678.2
0.42
13.3
43.7
3.4
55
41,601
DPM_WB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Westbound
WB
2
672.3
0.42
13.3
43.7
3.4
55
41,601
Total
83,201
Emission Factors
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
55
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00027
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and DPM Emissions - DPM_EB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
0.45%
186
5.89E-06
9
5.65%
2351
7.46E-05
17
8.44%
3509
1.11E-04
2
0.25%
105
3.33E-06
10
6.17%
2565
8.14E-05
18
7.44%
3094
9.82E-05
3
0.20%
82
2.60E-06
11
6.44%
2678
8.50E-05
19
5.68%
2364
7.50E-05
4
0.20%
84
2.66E-06
12
6.83%
2839
9.01E-05
20
4.32%
1799
5.71E-05
5
0.46%
190
6.02E-06
13
7.30%
3037
9.64E-05
21
3.09%
1287
4.08E-05
6
1.28%
534
1.70E-05
14
7.64%
3176
1.01E-04
22
2.14%
889
2.82E-05
7
2.52%
1049
3.33E-05
15
8.38%
3486
1.11E-04
23
1.26%
526
1.67E-05
8
4.29%
1785
5.66E-05
16
8.80%
3659
1.16E-04
24
0.78%
326
1.03E-05
Total
41,601
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and DPM Emissions - DPM_WB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
0.44%
185
5.82E-06
9
6.54%
2720
8.55E-05
17
7.49%
3117
9.80E-05
2
0.24%
100
3.15E-06
10
6.29%
2616
8.23E-05
18
7.39%
3074
9.67E-05
3
0.17%
73
2.29E-06
11
6.51%
2706
8.51E-05
19
5.82%
2419
7.61E-05
4
0.19%
78
2.46E-06
12
7.04%
2930
9.21E-05
20
4.01%
1667
5.24E-05
5
0.42%
175
5.52E-06
13
7.46%
3104
9.76E-05
21
2.90%
1208
3.80E-05
6
1.42%
593
1.86E-05
14
7.32%
3045
9.58E-05
22
2.11%
877
2.76E-05
7
3.06%
1272
4.00E-05
15
7.53%
3131
9.85E-05
23
1.39%
580
1.82E-05
8
5.84%
2429
7.64E-05
16
7.61%
3168
9.96E-05
24
0.80%
333
1.05E-05
Total
41,601

--- page 329 ---
Analysis Year =  2023
2019 Caltrans
2023
Vehicle
Vehicles
Vehicles
Type
(veh/day)
(veh/day)
Total
80,001
83,201
41600.5
1.04
Vehicles/Direction
41,601
Avg Vehicles/Hour/Direction
1,733
Traffic Data Year =  
2019
Caltrans AADT (2017) & Truck %s (2018)
Total
Trucks by Axle
 
AADT Total
Truck
2
3
4
5
Cumlative + Project Plugas Ave
80,000
1,840
1,141
247
24
429
62.01%
13.42%
1.30%
23.32%
Percent of Total Vehicles
2.30%
1.43%
0.31%
0.03%
0.54%
1.00%
Increase From  2019
Traffic Increase per Year (%) =

--- page 330 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger Freeway
PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length    
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
PM2.5_EB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Eastbound
EB
2
678.2
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
PM2.5_WB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Westbound
WB
2
672.3
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
Total
83,201
Emission Factors - PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
55
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.001174
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_EB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
0.45%
186
2.55E-05
9
5.65%
2351
3.23E-04
17
8.44%
3509
4.82E-04
2
0.25%
105
1.44E-05
10
6.17%
2565
3.53E-04
18
7.44%
3094
4.25E-04
3
0.20%
82
1.13E-05
11
6.44%
2678
3.68E-04
19
5.68%
2364
3.25E-04
4
0.20%
84
1.15E-05
12
6.83%
2839
3.90E-04
20
4.32%
1799
2.47E-04
5
0.46%
190
2.61E-05
13
7.30%
3037
4.17E-04
21
3.09%
1287
1.77E-04
6
1.28%
534
7.35E-05
14
7.64%
3176
4.37E-04
22
2.14%
889
1.22E-04
7
2.52%
1049
1.44E-04
15
8.38%
3486
4.79E-04
23
1.26%
526
7.22E-05
8
4.29%
1785
2.45E-04
16
8.80%
3659
5.03E-04
24
0.78%
326
4.48E-05
Total
41,601
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_WB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
0.44%
185
2.52E-05
9
6.54%
2720
3.71E-04
17
7.49%
3117
4.25E-04
2
0.24%
100
1.36E-05
10
6.29%
2616
3.56E-04
18
7.39%
3074
4.19E-04
3
0.17%
73
9.90E-06
11
6.51%
2706
3.69E-04
19
5.82%
2419
3.30E-04
4
0.19%
78
1.07E-05
12
7.04%
2930
3.99E-04
20
4.01%
1667
2.27E-04
5
0.42%
175
2.39E-05
13
7.46%
3104
4.23E-04
21
2.90%
1208
1.65E-04
6
1.42%
593
8.07E-05
14
7.32%
3045
4.15E-04
22
2.11%
877
1.19E-04
7
3.06%
1272
1.73E-04
15
7.53%
3131
4.27E-04
23
1.39%
580
7.90E-05
8
5.84%
2429
3.31E-04
16
7.61%
3168
4.32E-04
24
0.80%
333
4.53E-05
Total
41,601

--- page 331 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger Freeway
TOG Exhaust Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Exhaust Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEXH_EB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Eastbound
EB
2
678.2
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
TEXH_WB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Westbound
WB
2
672.3
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
Total
83,201
Emission Factors - TOG Exhaust
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
55
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.02919
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_EB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
0.45%
186
6.35E-04
9
5.65%
2351
8.03E-03
17
8.44%
3509
1.20E-02
2
0.25%
105
3.58E-04
10
6.17%
2565
8.76E-03
18
7.44%
3094
1.06E-02
3
0.20%
82
2.80E-04
11
6.44%
2678
9.15E-03
19
5.68%
2364
8.08E-03
4
0.20%
84
2.87E-04
12
6.83%
2839
9.70E-03
20
4.32%
1799
6.15E-03
5
0.46%
190
6.49E-04
13
7.30%
3037
1.04E-02
21
3.09%
1287
4.40E-03
6
1.28%
534
1.83E-03
14
7.64%
3176
1.09E-02
22
2.14%
889
3.04E-03
7
2.52%
1049
3.58E-03
15
8.38%
3486
1.19E-02
23
1.26%
526
1.80E-03
8
4.29%
1785
6.10E-03
16
8.80%
3659
1.25E-02
24
0.78%
326
1.11E-03
Total
41,601
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_WB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
0.44%
185
6.26E-04
9
6.54%
2720
9.21E-03
17
7.49%
3117
1.06E-02
2
0.24%
100
3.39E-04
10
6.29%
2616
8.86E-03
18
7.39%
3074
1.04E-02
3
0.17%
73
2.46E-04
11
6.51%
2706
9.17E-03
19
5.82%
2419
8.19E-03
4
0.19%
78
2.65E-04
12
7.04%
2930
9.92E-03
20
4.01%
1667
5.65E-03
5
0.42%
175
5.94E-04
13
7.46%
3104
1.05E-02
21
2.90%
1208
4.09E-03
6
1.42%
593
2.01E-03
14
7.32%
3045
1.03E-02
22
2.11%
877
2.97E-03
7
3.06%
1272
4.31E-03
15
7.53%
3131
1.06E-02
23
1.39%
580
1.96E-03
8
5.84%
2429
8.23E-03
16
7.61%
3168
1.07E-02
24
0.80%
333
1.13E-03
Total
41,601

--- page 332 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger Freeway
TOG Evaporative Emissions Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Evaporative Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEVAP_EB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Eastbound
EB
2
678.2
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
TEVAP_WB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Westbound
WB
2
672.3
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
Total
83,201
Emission Factors - PM2.5 - Evaporative TOG
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
55
Emissions per Vehicle per Hour (g/hour)
1.19052
Emissions per Vehicle per Mile (g/VMT) 
0.02165
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_EB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
0.45%
186
4.71E-04
9
5.65%
2351
5.96E-03
17
8.44%
3509
8.89E-03
2
0.25%
105
2.66E-04
10
6.17%
2565
6.50E-03
18
7.44%
3094
7.84E-03
3
0.20%
82
2.07E-04
11
6.44%
2678
6.79E-03
19
5.68%
2364
5.99E-03
4
0.20%
84
2.13E-04
12
6.83%
2839
7.19E-03
20
4.32%
1799
4.56E-03
5
0.46%
190
4.81E-04
13
7.30%
3037
7.70E-03
21
3.09%
1287
3.26E-03
6
1.28%
534
1.35E-03
14
7.64%
3176
8.05E-03
22
2.14%
889
2.25E-03
7
2.52%
1049
2.66E-03
15
8.38%
3486
8.83E-03
23
1.26%
526
1.33E-03
8
4.29%
1785
4.52E-03
16
8.80%
3659
9.27E-03
24
0.78%
326
8.25E-04
Total
41,601
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_WB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
0.44%
185
4.65E-04
9
6.54%
2720
6.83E-03
17
7.49%
3117
7.83E-03
2
0.24%
100
2.51E-04
10
6.29%
2616
6.57E-03
18
7.39%
3074
7.72E-03
3
0.17%
73
1.83E-04
11
6.51%
2706
6.80E-03
19
5.82%
2419
6.08E-03
4
0.19%
78
1.97E-04
12
7.04%
2930
7.36E-03
20
4.01%
1667
4.19E-03
5
0.42%
175
4.41E-04
13
7.46%
3104
7.80E-03
21
2.90%
1208
3.04E-03
6
1.42%
593
1.49E-03
14
7.32%
3045
7.65E-03
22
2.11%
877
2.20E-03
7
3.06%
1272
3.20E-03
15
7.53%
3131
7.87E-03
23
1.39%
580
1.46E-03
8
5.84%
2429
6.10E-03
16
7.61%
3168
7.96E-03
24
0.80%
333
8.35E-04
Total
41,601

--- page 333 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger Freeway
Fugitive Road PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and Fugitive Road PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
FUG_EB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Eastbound
EB
2
678.2
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
FUG_WB_ARTH
SR 92 - J. Arthur Younger 
Freeway Westbound
WB
2
672.3
0.42
13.3
44
1.3
55
41,601
Total
83,201
Emission Factors - Fugitive PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
55
Tire Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00203
Brake Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01659
Road Dust - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00724
otal Fugitive PM2.5 - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.02586
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_EB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
0.45%
186
5.62E-04
9
5.65%
2351
7.12E-03
17
8.44%
3509
1.06E-02
2
0.25%
105
3.17E-04
10
6.17%
2565
7.76E-03
18
7.44%
3094
9.37E-03
3
0.20%
82
2.48E-04
11
6.44%
2678
8.11E-03
19
5.68%
2364
7.16E-03
4
0.20%
84
2.54E-04
12
6.83%
2839
8.59E-03
20
4.32%
1799
5.45E-03
5
0.46%
190
5.75E-04
13
7.30%
3037
9.19E-03
21
3.09%
1287
3.90E-03
6
1.28%
534
1.62E-03
14
7.64%
3176
9.61E-03
22
2.14%
889
2.69E-03
7
2.52%
1049
3.18E-03
15
8.38%
3486
1.06E-02
23
1.26%
526
1.59E-03
8
4.29%
1785
5.40E-03
16
8.80%
3659
1.11E-02
24
0.78%
326
9.86E-04
Total
41,601
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_WB_ARTH
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
0.44%
185
5.55E-04
9
6.54%
2720
8.16E-03
17
7.49%
3117
9.35E-03
2
0.24%
100
3.00E-04
10
6.29%
2616
7.85E-03
18
7.39%
3074
9.22E-03
3
0.17%
73
2.18E-04
11
6.51%
2706
8.12E-03
19
5.82%
2419
7.26E-03
4
0.19%
78
2.35E-04
12
7.04%
2930
8.79E-03
20
4.01%
1667
5.00E-03
5
0.42%
175
5.27E-04
13
7.46%
3104
9.32E-03
21
2.90%
1208
3.63E-03
6
1.42%
593
1.78E-03
14
7.32%
3045
9.14E-03
22
2.11%
877
2.63E-03
7
3.06%
1272
3.82E-03
15
7.53%
3131
9.40E-03
23
1.39%
580
1.74E-03
8
5.84%
2429
7.29E-03
16
7.61%
3168
9.50E-03
24
0.80%
333
9.98E-04
Total
41,601

--- page 334 ---
1919 O'Farrel Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic - TACs & PM2
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
at Construction Residential MEI Receptor (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2023
Receptor Information
Construction Residential MEI receptor
Number of Receptors
1
Receptor Height
4.5 meters 
Receptor Distances
At Construction Residential MEI location
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco Int. Met Data 2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction Residential MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
Construction Residential MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.4555
0.4357
0.0198
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 335 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at Construction Residential MEI - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.056
0.038
0.0017
0.10
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.675
0.461
0.0201
1.16
0.001
0.44
0.46
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.675
0.461
0.0201
1.16
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.106
0.073
0.0032
0.18
17
1
16-17
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
18
1
17-18
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
19
1
18-19
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
20
1
19-20
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
21
1
20-21
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
22
1
21-22
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
23
1
22-23
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
24
1
23-24
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
25
1
24-25
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
26
1
25-26
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
27
1
26-27
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
28
1
27-28
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
29
1
28-29
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
30
1
29-30
1
0.0041
0.4916
0.3644
0.012
0.008
0.0004
0.02
Total Increased Cancer Risk
3.06
2.089
0.091
5.24
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
2027
2028
2029
2030
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
2026
Maximum 
2023
2023
2024
2025
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2031
2044
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2032
2051
2052
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050

--- page 336 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations - Without MERV13 Filtration
On-Site Receptors (1.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2021
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
1.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAQMD Moffett Airfield Met Data
2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction School MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
Construction School MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.7849
0.7508
0.0340
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 337 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations - Without MERV13 Filtration
On-Site Receptors (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2021
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
4.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAQMD Moffett Airfield Met Data
2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction School MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
Construction School MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.5368
0.5135
0.0233
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 338 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 1st Floor Receptors - 1.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure - Without MERV13 Filtration
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.083
0.066
0.0029
0.15
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.999
0.794
0.0347
1.83
0.001
0.75
0.78
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.999
0.794
0.0347
1.83
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.157
0.125
0.0055
0.29
17
1
16-17
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
18
1
17-18
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
19
1
18-19
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
20
1
19-20
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
21
1
20-21
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
22
1
21-22
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
23
1
22-23
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
24
1
23-24
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
25
1
24-25
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
26
1
25-26
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
27
1
26-27
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
28
1
27-28
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
29
1
28-29
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
30
1
29-30
1
0.0061
0.8470
0.6279
0.017
0.014
0.0006
0.03
Total Increased Cancer Risk
4.53
3.599
0.157
8.28
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2032
Maximum 
2023
2023
2024
2025
2026
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2044
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2051
2052
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050

--- page 339 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 2nd Floor Receptors - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure - Without MERV13 Filtration
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.069
0.045
0.0020
0.12
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.834
0.543
0.0237
1.40
0.001
0.51
0.54
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.834
0.543
0.0237
1.40
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.131
0.086
0.0037
0.22
17
1
16-17
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
18
1
17-18
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
19
1
18-19
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
20
1
19-20
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
21
1
20-21
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
22
1
21-22
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
23
1
22-23
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
24
1
23-24
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
25
1
24-25
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
26
1
25-26
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
27
1
26-27
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
28
1
27-28
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
29
1
28-29
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
30
1
29-30
1
0.0051
0.5793
0.4295
0.015
0.009
0.0004
0.02
Total Increased Cancer Risk
3.78
2.462
0.108
6.35
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2032
Maximum 
2023
2023
2024
2025
2026
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2044
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2051
2052
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050

--- page 340 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations - With MERV13 Filtration
On-Site Receptors (1.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2021
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
1.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAQMD Moffett Airfield Met Data
2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction School MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
Construction School MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.2355
0.2252
0.0102
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 341 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations - With MERV13 Filtration
On-Site Receptors (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2021
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
4.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAQMD Moffett Airfield Met Data
2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction School MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
Construction School MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.1610
0.1540
0.0070
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 342 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 1st Floor Receptors - 1.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure - With MERV13 Filtration
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.025
0.066
0.0029
0.09
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.300
0.794
0.0347
1.13
0.000
0.23
0.24
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.300
0.794
0.0347
1.13
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.047
0.125
0.0055
0.18
17
1
16-17
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
18
1
17-18
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
19
1
18-19
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
20
1
19-20
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
21
1
20-21
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
22
1
21-22
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
23
1
22-23
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
24
1
23-24
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
25
1
24-25
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
26
1
25-26
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
27
1
26-27
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
28
1
27-28
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
29
1
28-29
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
30
1
29-30
1
0.0018
0.8470
0.6279
0.005
0.014
0.0006
0.02
Total Increased Cancer Risk
1.36
3.599
0.157
5.11
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2032
Maximum 
2023
2023
2024
2025
2026
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2044
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2051
2052
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050

--- page 343 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR92 J Arthur Younger Freeway Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 2nd Floor Receptors - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure - With MERV13 Filtration
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.021
0.045
0.0020
0.07
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.250
0.543
0.0237
0.82
0.000
0.15
0.16
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.250
0.543
0.0237
0.82
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.039
0.086
0.0037
0.13
17
1
16-17
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
18
1
17-18
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
19
1
18-19
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
20
1
19-20
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
21
1
20-21
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
22
1
21-22
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
23
1
22-23
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
24
1
23-24
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
25
1
24-25
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
26
1
25-26
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
27
1
26-27
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
28
1
27-28
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
29
1
28-29
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
30
1
29-30
1
0.0015
0.5793
0.4295
0.004
0.009
0.0004
0.01
Total Increased Cancer Risk
1.13
2.462
0.108
3.70
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2032
Maximum 
2023
2023
2024
2025
2026
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2044
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2051
2052
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050

--- page 344 ---
S.R. 82 Traffic Emissions and Health Risk Calculations 
 
 
 
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 82 - El Camino Real
DPM Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and DPM Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. Lanes
Link 
Length   
(m)
Link 
Length    
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
DPM_NB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
327.2
0.20
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,968
DPM_SB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
374.4
0.23
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,968
Total
39,936
Emission Factors
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
25
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00017
0.000201
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and DPM Emissions - DPM_NB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
3.81%
762
7.18E-06
9
6.66%
1331
1.51E-05
17
6.50%
1298
1.47E-05
2
3.15%
629
5.93E-06
10
8.16%
1629
1.54E-05
18
3.85%
768
8.72E-06
3
2.32%
464
4.37E-06
11
6.33%
1265
1.19E-05
19
2.35%
470
4.43E-06
4
1.00%
199
1.87E-06
12
7.66%
1529
1.44E-05
20
1.19%
238
2.24E-06
5
1.00%
199
1.87E-06
13
6.83%
1364
1.29E-05
21
3.02%
602
5.68E-06
6
2.16%
430
4.06E-06
14
6.66%
1331
1.26E-05
22
5.01%
1000
9.43E-06
7
4.67%
933
8.80E-06
15
6.00%
1198
1.13E-05
23
3.32%
662
6.25E-06
8
3.35%
668
7.59E-06
16
4.34%
867
8.18E-06
24
0.66%
132
1.25E-06
Total
19,968
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and DPM Emissions - DPM_SB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
3.81%
762
8.22E-06
9
6.66%
1331
1.73E-05
17
6.50%
1298
1.69E-05
2
3.15%
629
6.79E-06
10
8.16%
1629
1.76E-05
18
3.85%
768
9.97E-06
3
2.32%
464
5.00E-06
11
6.33%
1265
1.36E-05
19
2.35%
470
5.07E-06
4
1.00%
199
2.14E-06
12
7.66%
1529
1.65E-05
20
1.19%
238
2.57E-06
5
1.00%
199
2.14E-06
13
6.83%
1364
1.47E-05
21
3.02%
602
6.50E-06
6
2.16%
430
4.65E-06
14
6.66%
1331
1.44E-05
22
5.01%
1000
1.08E-05
7
4.67%
933
1.01E-05
15
6.00%
1198
1.29E-05
23
3.32%
662
7.15E-06
8
3.35%
668
8.68E-06
16
4.34%
867
9.36E-06
24
0.66%
132
1.43E-06
Total
19,968

--- page 345 ---
Analysis Year =  2023
2019 Caltrans
2023
Vehicle
Vehicles
Vehicles
Type
(veh/day)
(veh/day)
Total
38,400
39,936
19968
1.04
Vehicles/Direction
19,968
Avg Vehicles/Hour/Direction
832
Traffic Data Year =  
2019
Caltrans AADT (2019) & Truck %s (2018)
Total
Trucks by Axle
 
AADT Total
Truck
2
3
4
5
SAN MATEO, JCT. RTE. 92
38,400
507
395
71
8
33
77.91%
14.00%
1.58%
6.51%
Percent of Total Vehicles
1.32%
1.03%
0.18%
0.02%
0.09%
1.00%
Increase From  2019
Traffic Increase per Year (%) =

--- page 346 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 82 - El Camino Real
PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length    
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
PM2.5_NB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
327.2
0.20
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
PM2.5_SB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
374.4
0.23
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
Total
39,936
Emission Factors - PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
25
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.001341
0.00203
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_NB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
224
1.69E-05
9
7.12%
1421
1.63E-04
17
7.43%
1484
1.70E-04
2
0.41%
83
6.25E-06
10
4.37%
873
6.62E-05
18
8.24%
1645
1.89E-04
3
0.37%
75
5.67E-06
11
4.65%
929
7.03E-05
19
5.72%
1142
8.65E-05
4
0.17%
34
2.58E-06
12
5.89%
1175
8.90E-05
20
4.30%
859
6.51E-05
5
0.46%
92
6.96E-06
13
6.17%
1232
9.33E-05
21
3.25%
649
4.91E-05
6
0.85%
169
1.28E-05
14
6.05%
1209
9.15E-05
22
3.31%
662
5.01E-05
7
3.73%
745
5.64E-05
15
7.06%
1409
1.07E-04
23
2.48%
496
3.76E-05
8
7.77%
1551
1.78E-04
16
7.19%
1436
1.09E-04
24
1.87%
374
2.83E-05
Total
19,968
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_SB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
224
1.94E-05
9
7.12%
1421
1.87E-04
17
7.43%
1484
1.95E-04
2
0.41%
83
7.15E-06
10
4.37%
873
7.57E-05
18
8.24%
1645
2.16E-04
3
0.37%
75
6.49E-06
11
4.65%
929
8.05E-05
19
5.72%
1142
9.90E-05
4
0.17%
34
2.95E-06
12
5.89%
1175
1.02E-04
20
4.30%
859
7.45E-05
5
0.46%
92
7.96E-06
13
6.17%
1232
1.07E-04
21
3.25%
649
5.62E-05
6
0.85%
169
1.47E-05
14
6.05%
1209
1.05E-04
22
3.31%
662
5.73E-05
7
3.73%
745
6.46E-05
15
7.06%
1409
1.22E-04
23
2.48%
496
4.30E-05
8
7.77%
1551
2.04E-04
16
7.19%
1436
1.24E-04
24
1.87%
374
3.24E-05
Total
19,968

--- page 347 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 82 - El Camino Real
TOG Exhaust Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Exhaust Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEXH_NB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
327.2
0.20
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
TEXH_SB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
374.4
0.23
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
Total
39,936
Emission Factors - TOG Exhaust
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
25
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.03601
0.05387
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_NB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
224
4.55E-04
9
7.12%
1421
4.32E-03
17
7.43%
1484
4.52E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.68E-04
10
4.37%
873
1.78E-03
18
8.24%
1645
5.00E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.52E-04
11
4.65%
929
1.89E-03
19
5.72%
1142
2.32E-03
4
0.17%
34
6.92E-05
12
5.89%
1175
2.39E-03
20
4.30%
859
1.75E-03
5
0.46%
92
1.87E-04
13
6.17%
1232
2.50E-03
21
3.25%
649
1.32E-03
6
0.85%
169
3.44E-04
14
6.05%
1209
2.46E-03
22
3.31%
662
1.35E-03
7
3.73%
745
1.52E-03
15
7.06%
1409
2.87E-03
23
2.48%
496
1.01E-03
8
7.77%
1551
4.72E-03
16
7.19%
1436
2.92E-03
24
1.87%
374
7.61E-04
Total
19,968
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_SB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
224
5.21E-04
9
7.12%
1421
4.95E-03
17
7.43%
1484
5.17E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.92E-04
10
4.37%
873
2.03E-03
18
8.24%
1645
5.73E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.74E-04
11
4.65%
929
2.16E-03
19
5.72%
1142
2.66E-03
4
0.17%
34
7.92E-05
12
5.89%
1175
2.74E-03
20
4.30%
859
2.00E-03
5
0.46%
92
2.14E-04
13
6.17%
1232
2.87E-03
21
3.25%
649
1.51E-03
6
0.85%
169
3.94E-04
14
6.05%
1209
2.81E-03
22
3.31%
662
1.54E-03
7
3.73%
745
1.73E-03
15
7.06%
1409
3.28E-03
23
2.48%
496
1.15E-03
8
7.77%
1551
5.40E-03
16
7.19%
1436
3.34E-03
24
1.87%
374
8.71E-04
Total
19,968

--- page 348 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 82 - El Camino Real
TOG Evaporative Emissions Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Evaporative Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEVAP_NB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
327.2
0.20
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
TEVAP_SB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
374.4
0.23
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
Total
39,936
Emission Factors - PM2.5 - Evaporative TOG
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
25
Emissions per Vehicle per Hour (g/hour)
1.18788
1.18788
Emissions per Vehicle per Mile (g/VMT) 
0.03394
0.03394
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_NB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
224
4.29E-04
9
7.12%
1421
2.72E-03
17
7.43%
1484
2.84E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.58E-04
10
4.37%
873
1.67E-03
18
8.24%
1645
3.15E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.43E-04
11
4.65%
929
1.78E-03
19
5.72%
1142
2.19E-03
4
0.17%
34
6.52E-05
12
5.89%
1175
2.25E-03
20
4.30%
859
1.65E-03
5
0.46%
92
1.76E-04
13
6.17%
1232
2.36E-03
21
3.25%
649
1.24E-03
6
0.85%
169
3.24E-04
14
6.05%
1209
2.32E-03
22
3.31%
662
1.27E-03
7
3.73%
745
1.43E-03
15
7.06%
1409
2.70E-03
23
2.48%
496
9.50E-04
8
7.77%
1551
2.97E-03
16
7.19%
1436
2.75E-03
24
1.87%
374
7.17E-04
Total
19,968
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_SB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
224
4.91E-04
9
7.12%
1421
3.12E-03
17
7.43%
1484
3.26E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.81E-04
10
4.37%
873
1.92E-03
18
8.24%
1645
3.61E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.64E-04
11
4.65%
929
2.04E-03
19
5.72%
1142
2.51E-03
4
0.17%
34
7.46E-05
12
5.89%
1175
2.58E-03
20
4.30%
859
1.88E-03
5
0.46%
92
2.01E-04
13
6.17%
1232
2.70E-03
21
3.25%
649
1.42E-03
6
0.85%
169
3.71E-04
14
6.05%
1209
2.65E-03
22
3.31%
662
1.45E-03
7
3.73%
745
1.63E-03
15
7.06%
1409
3.09E-03
23
2.48%
496
1.09E-03
8
7.77%
1551
3.40E-03
16
7.19%
1436
3.15E-03
24
1.87%
374
8.21E-04
Total
19,968

--- page 349 ---
1919 O'Farrell St, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - SR 82 - El Camino Real
Fugitive Road PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and Fugitive Road PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2023
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
FUG_NB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
327.2
0.20
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
FUG_SB_EL_CAM
SR 82 - El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
374.4
0.23
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,968
Total
39,936
Emission Factors - Fugitive PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
25
Tire Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00202
0.00202
Brake Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01631
0.01631
Road Dust - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00696
0.00696
otal Fugitive PM2.5 - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.02529
0.02529
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_NB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
224
3.20E-04
9
7.12%
1421
2.03E-03
17
7.43%
1484
2.12E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.18E-04
10
4.37%
873
1.25E-03
18
8.24%
1645
2.35E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.07E-04
11
4.65%
929
1.33E-03
19
5.72%
1142
1.63E-03
4
0.17%
34
4.86E-05
12
5.89%
1175
1.68E-03
20
4.30%
859
1.23E-03
5
0.46%
92
1.31E-04
13
6.17%
1232
1.76E-03
21
3.25%
649
9.27E-04
6
0.85%
169
2.42E-04
14
6.05%
1209
1.73E-03
22
3.31%
662
9.45E-04
7
3.73%
745
1.06E-03
15
7.06%
1409
2.01E-03
23
2.48%
496
7.08E-04
8
7.77%
1551
2.22E-03
16
7.19%
1436
2.05E-03
24
1.87%
374
5.35E-04
Total
19,968
2023 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_SB_EL_CAM
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
224
3.66E-04
9
7.12%
1421
2.32E-03
17
7.43%
1484
2.43E-03
2
0.41%
83
1.35E-04
10
4.37%
873
1.43E-03
18
8.24%
1645
2.69E-03
3
0.37%
75
1.22E-04
11
4.65%
929
1.52E-03
19
5.72%
1142
1.87E-03
4
0.17%
34
5.56E-05
12
5.89%
1175
1.92E-03
20
4.30%
859
1.40E-03
5
0.46%
92
1.50E-04
13
6.17%
1232
2.01E-03
21
3.25%
649
1.06E-03
6
0.85%
169
2.77E-04
14
6.05%
1209
1.98E-03
22
3.31%
662
1.08E-03
7
3.73%
745
1.22E-03
15
7.06%
1409
2.30E-03
23
2.48%
496
8.11E-04
8
7.77%
1551
2.54E-03
16
7.19%
1436
2.35E-03
24
1.87%
374
6.12E-04
Total
19,968

--- page 350 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
at Construction Residential MEI Receptor (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2023
Receptor Information
Construction Residential MEI receptor
Number of Receptors
1
Receptor Height
4.5 meters 
Receptor Distances
At Construction Residential MEI location
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco Int. Met Data 2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction Residential MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
Construction Residential MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.0274
0.0258
0.0016
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 351 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at Construction Residential MEI - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.030
0.040
0.0019
0.07
0.00004
0.03
0.03
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.030
0.040
0.0019
0.07
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.005
0.006
0.0003
0.01
17
1
16-17
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
18
1
17-18
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
19
1
18-19
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
20
1
19-20
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
21
1
20-21
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
22
1
21-22
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
23
1
22-23
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
24
1
23-24
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
25
1
24-25
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
26
1
25-26
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
27
1
26-27
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
28
1
27-28
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
29
1
28-29
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
30
1
29-30
1
0.0002
0.0425
0.0345
0.001
0.001
0.0000
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.13
0.181
0.009
0.32
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
2049
2050
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2029
2042
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2030
Maximum 
2021
2021
2022
2023
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2025
2026
2027
2028
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
2024

--- page 352 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
On-Site Receptors (1.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2023
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
1.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco Int. Met Data 2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction Residential MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
Construction Residential MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.0145
0.0137
0.0009
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 353 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
On-Site Receptors (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2023
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
41
Receptor Height
4.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter grid spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco Int. Met Data 2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction School MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
Construction School MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.0126
0.0119
0.0007
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 354 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 1st Floor Receptors - 1.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.001
0.002
0.0001
0.00
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.015
0.021
0.0010
0.04
0.00002
0.01
0.01
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.015
0.021
0.0010
0.04
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.002
0.003
0.0002
0.01
17
1
16-17
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
18
1
17-18
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
19
1
18-19
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
20
1
19-20
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
21
1
20-21
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
22
1
21-22
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
23
1
22-23
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
24
1
23-24
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
25
1
24-25
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
26
1
25-26
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
27
1
26-27
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
28
1
27-28
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
29
1
28-29
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
30
1
29-30
1
0.0001
0.0227
0.0183
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.07
0.096
0.005
0.17
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2030
Maximum 
2021
2021
2022
2023
2024
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2042
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2049
2050
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048

--- page 355 ---
1919 O'Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA - SR82 El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 2nd Floor Receptors - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.001
0.002
0.0001
0.00
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.013
0.019
0.0009
0.03
0.00002
0.01
0.01
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.013
0.019
0.0009
0.03
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.002
0.003
0.0001
0.01
17
1
16-17
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
18
1
17-18
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
19
1
18-19
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
20
1
19-20
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
21
1
20-21
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
22
1
21-22
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
23
1
22-23
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
24
1
23-24
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
25
1
24-25
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
26
1
25-26
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
27
1
26-27
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
28
1
27-28
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
29
1
28-29
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
30
1
29-30
1
0.0001
0.0198
0.0159
0.000
0.000
0.0000
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.06
0.084
0.004
0.15
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2030
Maximum 
2021
2021
2022
2023
2024
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2042
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2049
2050
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048

--- page 356 ---
Date of Request
3/31/2021
Contact Name
Zachary Palm
Affiliation
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc.
Phone
707‐794‐0400 x117
Email
zpalm@illingworthrodkin.com
Project Name
1919 O'Farrell Street
Address
1919 O'Farrell Street
City
San Mateo
County
San Mateo
Type (residential, 
commercial, mixed 
use, industrial, etc.)
Residential
Project Size (# of 
units or building 
square feet)
49 units
Table A: Requester Contact Information
Comments:
Risk & Hazard Stationary Source Inquiry Form
This form is required when users request stationary source data from BAAQMD
This form is to be used with the BAAQMD's Google Earth stationary source screening tables. 
Click here for guidance on coducting risk & hazard screening, including roadways & freeways, refer to the District's Risk & Hazard Analysis flow chart. 
Click here for District's Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards document.
For Air District assistance, the following steps must be completed:
1. Complete all the contact and project information requested in 
. Incomplete forms will not be processed. Please include a project site map.
2. Download and install the free program Google Earth, http://www.google.com/earth/download/ge/, and then download the county specific Google Earth stationary 
source application files  from the District's website, http://www.baaqmd.gov/Divisions/Planning‐and‐Research/CEQA‐GUIDELINES/Tools‐and‐Methodology.aspx. The 
small points on the map represent stationary sources permitted by the District (Map A on right). These permitted sources include diesel back‐up generators, gas 
stations, dry cleaners, boilers, printers, auto spray booths, etc. Click on a point to view the source's Information Table, including the name, location, and preliminary 
estimated cancer risk, hazard index, and PM2.5 concentration.
3. Find the project site in Google Earth by inputting the site's address in the Google Earth search box.
4. Identify stationary sources within at least a 1000ft radius of project site. Verify that the location of the source on the map matches with the source's address in the 
Information Table, by using the Google Earth address search box to confirm the source's address location. Please report any mapping errors to the District.
5. List the stationary source information in 
blue section only. 
6. Note that a small percentage of the stationary sources have Health Risk Screening Assessment (HRSA) data INSTEAD of screeninglevel data. These sources will be 
noted by an asterisk next to the Plant Name (Map B on right). If HRSA values are presented, these values have already been modeled and cannot be adjusted further.
7. Email this completed form to District staff.  District staff will provide the most recent risk, hazard, and PM2.5 data that are available for the source(s). If this 
information or data are not available, source emissions data will be provided. Staff will respond to inquiries within three weeks.  
Note that a public records request received for the same stationary source information will cancel the processing of your SSIF request.
Submit forms, maps, and questions to Areana Flores at 415‐749‐4616, or aflores@baaqmd.gov
Table A: Requester Contact Information 
Table B 
Table A

--- page 357 ---
Construction MEI
Distance from 
Receptor (feet) or 
MEI1
Plant No.
Facility Name
Address
Cancer Risk2 Hazard Risk2
PM2.5
2
Source No.3
Type of Source4
Fuel Code5
Status/Comments
Distance 
Adjustment 
Multiplier
Adjusted 
Cancer Risk 
Estimate
Adjusted 
Hazard 
Risk
Adjusted 
PM2.5
560
14783 City of San Mateo City Hall
330 W 20th Avenue
0.57
0
0
Generators
2018 Dataset
0.10
0.06
0.000000
0.00
830
15250 Casiopea Bovet  LLC
155 Bovet Road
0.7
0
0
Generators
2018 Dataset
0.06
0.04
0.000000
0.00
1000+
20790 1730 S El Camino Real Partners LP
1730 So El Camino Real
2.04
0
0.01
Generators
2018 Dataset
0.04
0.08
0.000000
0.00
50
22742 Park 20
1950 Elk Horn Court
0.28
0
0
Generators
2018 Dataset
1
0.28
0.000000
0.00
Footnotes:
Project Site
1. Maximally exposed individual 
Distance from 
Receptor 
(feet) or MEI1
FACID (Plant No.)
Distance 
Adjustment 
Multiplier
Adjusted 
Cancer Risk 
Estimate
Adjusted 
Hazard 
Risk
Adjusted 
PM2.5
400
14783 0.16
0.09
0.000000
0.00
550
15250 0.10
0.07
0.000000
0.00
1000
20790 0.04
0.08
0.000000
0.00
150
22742 0.58
0.16
0.000000
0.00
c. BAAQMD Reg 11 Rule 16 required that all co‐residential (sharing a wall, floor, ceiling or is in the same building as a residential unit) dry cleaners cease use of perc on July 1, 2010. 
Therefore, there is no cancer risk, hazard or PM2.5 concentrations from co‐residential dry cleaning businesses in the BAAQMD.
d. Non co‐
Date last updated: 
03/13/2018
2. These Cancer Risk, Hazard Index, and PM2.5 columns represent the values in the Google Earth Plant Information Table.
3. Each plant may have multiple permits and sources.
f. Unless otherwise noted, exempt sources are considered insignificant. See BAAQMD Reg 2 Rule 1 for a list of exempt sources.
g. This spray booth is considered to be insignificant.
4. Permitted sources include diesel back‐up generators, gas stations, dry cleaners, boilers, printers, auto spray booths, etc.
11. Further information about common sources:
a. Sources that only include diesel internal combustion engines can be adjusted using the BAAQMD's Diesel Multiplier worksheet. 
b. The risk from natural gas boilers used for space heating when <25 MM BTU/hr would have an estimated cancer risk of one in a million or less, and a chronic hazard index of 0.003 or less. 
e. Gas stations can be adjusted using BAAQMD's Gas Station Distance Mulitplier worksheet.
6. If a Health Risk Screening Assessment (HRSA) was completed for the source, the application number will be listed here.
7. The date that the HRSA was completed.
8. Engineer who completed the HRSA. For District purposes only.
9. All HRSA completed before 1/5/2010 need to be multiplied by an age sensitivity factor of 1.7.
10. The HRSA "Chronic Health" number represents the Hazard Index.
5. Fuel codes: 98 = diesel, 189 = Natural Gas.
Table B: Google Earth data

--- page 358 ---
Area of Interest (AOI) Information
Area : 3,878,161.49 ft²
Mar 31 2021 8:23:11 Pacific Daylight Time
Firefox
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=238...
1 of 2
3/31/2021, 8:27 AM

--- page 359 ---
Summary
Name
Count
Area(ft²)
Length(ft)
Permitted Facilities 2018
5
N/A
N/A
Permitted Facilities 2018
#
FACID
Name
Address
City
St
1
14783
City of San Mateo City
Hall
330 W 20th Avenue
San Mateo
CA
2
14785
City of San Mateo
2100 Detroit Drive
San Mateo
CA
3
15250
Casiopea Bovet LLC
155 Bovet Road
San Mateo
CA
4
20790
1730 S El Camino Real
Partners LP
1730 So El Camino Real
San Mateo
CA
5
22742
Park 20
1950 Elk Horn Court
San Mateo
CA
#
Zip
County
Cancer
Hazard
PM_25
Type
Count
1
94403
San Mateo
0.570
0.000
0.000
Generators
1
2
94404
San Mateo
0.000
0.000
0.000
Contact
BAAQMD
1
3
94402
San Mateo
0.700
0.000
0.000
Generators
1
4
94402
San Mateo
2.040
0.000
0.010
Generators
1
5
94403
San Mateo
0.280
0.000
0.000
Generators
1
Note: The estimated risk and hazard impacts from these sources would be expected to be substantially lower when site specific Health Risk Screening Assessments are conducted. 
The screening level map is not recommended for evaluating sensitive land uses such as schools, senior centers, day cares, and health facilities. 
© Copyright 2018 Bay Area Air Quality Management District
Firefox
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=238...
2 of 2
3/31/2021, 8:27 AM

--- page 360 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
1919 O’Farrell St. Apartments
(PA-2020-037) 
OCTOBER 26, 2021

--- page 361 ---
PROJECT SITE
•
1919 O’Farrell Street
•
0.71 acre 
•
Existing Use; 1-story Office 
Building
•
E1-1/R4 Zoning District (Mixed 
Use)
City Hall

--- page 362 ---
PROJECT SITE
• Adjacent Uses: 
• 1 to 4-Story offices
• 1 to 4-Story Multi-family
• Park 20 Apartments
• Corte Bella 
Condominiums 
• City Hall
• SR 92
• Hayward Park Caltrain 
Station within one-half mile 
of project site.
City Hall

--- page 363 ---
EXISTING SITE PHOTO



--- page 364 ---
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
• Demolish 1 office building
• New apartment building
• 4 stories
• 49 Residential rental units 
• Including 4 affordable units
• A mix of 1-, 2- and 3-bedrooms 
• Max Density of 69 DU/Acre 
• 64 On-site parking spaces
• Single-level below-grade garage
• Automatic “puzzle” lift parking 
system used for 39 spaces

--- page 365 ---
kk

= ee ae >
. =

Se Rees

i z
be

4

4.

=

S: OE
a gz 2
<= 0 p Ieee
mee a iate

alls
a


--- page 366 ---
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
•
Tree Removal
•
11 Removed
•
9 require removal permit
•
12 Preserved
•
Open Space Design
•
Courtyard 
•
Sitting and sitting areas
•
Synthetic turf 
•
community promenade
•
Grove of 8 Redwood trees 
•
New landscaping

--- page 367 ---
REQUIRED APPROVALS
Site Plan and 
Architectural Review 
Site Development 
Planning Application
Categorical 
Exemption
• 49 Residential 
Units
• On Site Parking
• Fence Exception
• Removal of 9 trees 
with a diameter 6” 
or greater 
measured at 48” 
above natural 
grade
• To determine that 
the project will 
not have 
significant effect 
on the 
environment

--- page 368 ---
LOCAL CODES AND POLICIES
• General Plan
• Executive Office/High 
Density Multi-Family
• Zoning Code
• E1-1/R4
Proposed
Maximum
Units
49
49
Height
45’-0”
45’-0”
FAR
1.79
2.0
Proposed
Minimum
Parking
64
25
Bike Parking
Long Term
Short Term
54
4
54
3

--- page 369 ---
LOCAL CODES 
AND POLICIES
• Pedestrian Master Plan
• Bicycle Master Plan
• Climate Action Plan
• Multi Family Design Guidelines

--- page 370 ---
STATE CODES AND POLICIES
• Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
• Housing Crisis Act (SB330 Preliminary Application)

--- page 371 ---
STATE CODES AND POLICIES
• State Density Bonus Law
• 11% at Very Low-Income category 
• 35% density bonus
• 1 Incentive/ Concession
• Automated mechanical 
“puzzle” lift parking system
• 3 Waivers Setbacks
• Sidewalk width
• Overhead clearance for puzzle 
lift parking system
Proposed
Maximum
Base Density
50 DU/Acre 
(36 Units)
50 DU/Acre 
(36 Units)
Affordable Units
11% 
(4 Units)
10% 
(3.6 Units)
Density Bonus
35% 
(13 Units)
35% 
(13 Units)
Total Density
69 DU/Acre 
(49 Units)
69 DU/Acre 
(49 Units)
Incentives/ Concessions
1
1
Waivers
3
Unlimited

--- page 372 ---
PRE-APPLICATION
DESIGN REVIEW
• Reviewed by Larry Cannon of 
Cannon Design Group during the 
preliminary application.
• Reviewed by the Planning 
Commission during the 
preliminary application study 
session.
RECOMMENDATIONS
• 100% residential 
development 
• Preserve Redwood 
trees
• Landscape strip 
adjacent to S.R. 92 
• Additional open 
space
• Soften pedestrian 
entrance
• Scale and character 
of the building

--- page 373 ---
FORMAL-APPLICATION
DESIGN REVIEW
• Revisions since 2020 Study Session
•
100% residential
•
Preservation of Redwood trees
•
Open space increased
•
Building entrance and 
pedestrian access softened.
•
Enclosed lobby
•
Building scale and architectural 
compatibility
•
Screening of the above ground 
transformer

--- page 374 ---
CONTEMPORARY INSPIRED DESIGN
• Plaster 
• Brick Veneer
• Painted Concrete
• Horizontal Cement Board Siding 
• Vertical Standing Metal Seam Siding
• Metal Railings, Fencing, and Gates
• Metal and Wood Canopy
• Vinyl Windows and Aluminum 
Storefront
South Elevation
West Elevation

--- page 375 ---
GIONS Wha XY Me
OCG “ a On. \ Mapu

.) ‘ %, of. x Oe \ ’ .%

= PUBLIC INPUT

No public comments were
received.

4 oy ie 6 elas it po eit
Oe AW
os mT rte o% ut a

-_

a ~ x
teem ~'.ANGN
> ~ ANNI
. ~~
il ‘ONey
i! tl .

1
\
]


--- page 376 ---
CEQA
• Categorical Exemption, Class 32 Section 15332, In-Fill 
Development Projects
• No significant effects with implementation of 
recommended Conditions of Approval
• Air Quality
• Noise

--- page 377 ---
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
• Project is EXEMPT from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
•
Located within a half mile of high-quality transit services 
•
Has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, and 
•
Provides no more than the minimum parking required by the City

--- page 378 ---
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
• Project is EXEMPT from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
•
Located within a half mile of high-quality transit services 
•
Has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, and 
•
Provides no more than the minimum parking required by the City
• Level of Service (LOS)
•
Studied intersection would not exceed LOS Standard in General Plan
•
No intersection modifications required
•
Net increase during weekday AM and PM peak hours

--- page 379 ---
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
• Project is EXEMPT from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
•
Located within a half mile of high-quality transit services 
•
Has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, and 
•
Provides no more than the minimum parking required by the City
• Level of Service (LOS)
•
Studied intersection would not exceed LOS Standard in General Plan
•
No intersection modifications required
•
Net increase during weekday AM and PM peak hours
• Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan includes:
•
TDM Coordinator, TDM Program institutional in apartment lease, New Resident Packets, 
TDM Communications, Multimodal Wayfinding Signage, and Bike Education/ Workshops

--- page 380 ---
lame
~
s
-
ay
P
if

tf

eS

-

te ro a
a BA

aR ne :
: aus = “ne _ SE

a ; a]



--- page 381 ---
RECOMMENDATION 
• Recommend a determination of Categorical Exemption for the project  based 
on the Findings for Approval; and,
• Recommend approval of Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site 
Development Planning Application to allow the development of a new multi-
family residential building with 49 units located at 1919 O'Farrell Street

--- page 382 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
1919 O’Farrell St. Apartment Building
(PA-2020-037) 
OCTOBER 26, 2021

--- page 383 ---


--- page 384 ---
LEVELR
he
*
ili 8
LEVEL 4 i
: id
ii
LEVEL 3
S 0s
'
ii b
LEVEL?
i

LEVEL 1 (ATS
i

WEST ELEVA’

] 4 SUBTERRANEAN PARKING OCCURS BELOW 4 ] { 9 5 3 { . 18;
n nif LFVFL 1 PODIIM/SFF RFCTIONS ON SHFFT ASM) | r n | I A er ra a Pe

West Elevation



--- page 385 ---


--- page 386 ---
: 72 SS © eee N7648'37%

ee ee
i

Ri

.

Commercial Office
(Business)

Fitness
Center

ED

B,
4 Lx]
m*
a
1
9
yl

=e

‘si Tie Ramp
mm

BALCONY A |
19-0" x 8-0" ' oy i
' j eu

' '
- ira
a
se
SN
co
fers
a a a
je iko
=
my
oS St
TT
TE
—— 2?

Pre-App 1° Floor Plan



--- page 387 ---
oF a : re -
a e 6:0" CAST IN PLACE WALL

30" HIGH PLANTER WALL, TYP. —

= ee

TITLE EXCEPTION #5

SIDEWALK THROUGH ~~
20NE

O'FARRELL STREET

id Pre Application Set ea

Tr ne

Pre-App Landscape Plan



--- page 388 ---


--- page 389 ---
iT rf on =

a



--- page 390 ---
mii | {i
cS}

: ) if 1
\ f& y, i



--- page 391 ---
Mt !
bey of PEE = ne
son yy ey

Solid Waste Truck _/4. >=
Service Location

al
Transformer
ScreenGates = 6 ~~_

ill
i
q ‘a
| | i
Short-Term | | |
Bicycle Parking ~~ ; it .=——S : i 3
——— fire sprinkler system // SH [) aoe = L | 0) a 570 i | ue
are extended to the balconies fi - . 1
wees! (OW og ll eee |

Revised 1° Floor Plan


--- page 392 ---
WET

Courtyard
See Landscape Plans

ay
Wah

Recreation Room

Line of Wall

a

Fi
_——"
lal

Wi Wi
V V
= p

Trellis Above

Zoomed In Revised 1° Floor Plan


--- page 393 ---
PARCEL PER 3655 OR, 507

FIRE ACCESS AND MAINTENANCE, TYP.
SS seme 92 RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPE BUFFER ri.

_-_——

— — a
aaa

T=
Sas

ap neg:
| a aS, ee ‘es
aent = ae REsRindy
NES mamawhiy _—_

iS & At Oe es

192 ai TS oe wn

’R SCREEN. PLANTING YY

o |} ’

||

TREES TO REMAN - y NS

ANECT IN PLACE, TYP i:

2X TRUNK DAMETER, be

TAVATION GUIDELINES " ii Lot} \] '
[_

IORESS & EGRESS |

(EL 0” $226 OR aint | | |

TLE EXCEPTION #7 7 LS Le rm |

WPT 4YM PUE I Ludi | IL

f° $226 OR. 192 f

ff

= Se ps ) Wir
— V0) ID aN Li
PASTING LIGHT POLE TO REMAIN, TYP ‘ 4 ; z aeaee
:

SECURITY ACCESS GATE (6° HIGH)

\
cena.” A 26.51" pw ABST PROPERTY UNE

siren 5 HGH) '
3S CATE AND SCREEN (5° Hic) 1g
PRESTO UT POL —— é
TING PLANS js
WsTALATO i
Wat 1
€ USE INDERGROUND CENTER OF
\, PER SR78 OR, 486 sireet | ig
| 4
tw Wal
i \ | A tre |
| w") 1 pas
_ | :
4 | fi
ud
4 ki
< y hi H
Le j 1
« | f
O Me

\

S00 |PUE. PER 40 MAPS

ana : : ‘Eassensensentl
Km TLE EXCEPTION 46 pay pa =a se . oe

\ | SE Se i —\ fe > PRUPRRY Un



--- page 394 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
Urban Treehouse
1919 O’FARRELL  |  SAN MATEO

--- page 395 ---
Cafes & Shops
Caltrain Station
Employment Areas
Bay Meadows Park
03
*
02
03
01
04
02
Vicinity Map
01
02
03
04
05
Shops & Commercial
• Downtown Commercial
• Food & Beverage
• Shops & Services
Transit
• Caltrain Station
• Bus Station
• Shuttle
Employment
• Downtown Businesses
• Business Parks
• Hospitality & Retail
Park & Recreation
• San Mateo Central Park
• Bay Meadows Park
• Trinta Park
Services & Community
• City Hall
• Public Library
• Schools
Project Site
05
04
01
City Hall
05
*
2,000’
1,000’
500’
0
02
02
01
05
05
04
01
02
02
02
05
04
03
05
03
01
03
04
04
04
01
05
03
01
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
2

--- page 396 ---
CONTEXT
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
3
•Business
•Residential
•Eateries
•Academics
•District Services
•Transit
•Health & Fitness

--- page 397 ---
SITE
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
4
•Mix of Adjacent Uses:
  Ofﬁ ce, Civic & Multifamily
•Cul de Sac Street Terminus
•92 Freeway

--- page 398 ---
LANDSCAPE  &
OPEN SPACE
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
5
•Gathering Spaces
•Active & Passive Spaces
•Outdoor Furnishings
•Dining Areas
•Drought-Friendly Landscape

--- page 399 ---
COMMUNITY
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
6
•South Courtyard
•Shared Spaces
•Recreational Activities
•Game Areas
•Neighborhood Amenities

--- page 400 ---
LIVING
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
7
•1 BR, 2 BR & 3 BR Units
•Modern Living
•Recreational Amenities
•Bike and Pedestrian 
  Accessibility

--- page 401 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
8
Site Overview
• 49 Residential Units
• 64 Onsite Parking Spaces
• Total Open Space Area 13,705 SF

--- page 402 ---
Open Space
New Planting
Open Space - Hardscape & Softscape
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
9

--- page 403 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
10
Circulation
Bicycle Circulation
Pedestrian Circulation
Vehicular Circulation

--- page 404 ---
SitePlan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
11
Site Plan

--- page 405 ---
O'FARRELL STREET
RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABANDONED PER
5226 O.R. 192
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
ATTEMP
EL. +3'-0"
Mail
Recreation Room
Drive Ramp
to Parking Level B1
RAMP DN.
10%
Standpipe
5'-7"
1
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +0'-0"
EL. +0'-0"
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
Line of
Walls Above
7'-6"
&
Stretch
Room
Stair
2
11'-0"
15
2
A3.1
1
A3.1
A4.0
Pump
Room
Transformer
And Pad
e
Courtyard
See Landscape Plans
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
3'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
RAMP DN
18%
Game
Storage
1:
e Truck
cation
e
nclosure
d Waste
ycling
)
Short-Term
Bicycle Parking
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
Unit Type
C1
Unit Type
Line of B1
Level Below
O
Open Stairs
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
EL. +3'-0"
7'-6"
12'-1"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
1'-6 1/2"
11'-11"
1'-10"
7'-9"
23'-6 1/2"
11'-11"
3'-6"
1'-10"
11'-1"
1'-0"
8"
1'-0"
1'-6"
Line of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
Above
Line of
Roof Above
Line of Deck
Above
Line of
Trellis Above
Line of Wall
Above
Game
Area
R.R.
Lobby
e:
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
Exhaust
Shaft
er
tes
8'-0"
24'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
LEVEL 1 PLAN
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
"
5'-0"
5'-0"
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
A1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
Unit Type
B1.0
1
O'FARRELL STREET
F
O'
RIGHT-OF-WAY
G
ABANDONED PER
B
5226 O.R. 192
2
Standpipe
n
pe
ndp
Sta
5'-7"
7
1
EL. +3'-0"
-
EL. +3 -0
L. +0'-0"
L
. +0'-0"
-'0
.
Line of Wall
Line of Wa
Line of Wa
Wall
Wall
ne of W
Above
v
bov
Line of Wall
Above
11'-0"
'
1
15
15
Transformer
o
sfor
Tran
And Pad
ad
Courtyard
See Landscape Plans
1:
e
nclosure
d Waste
te
ycling
)
Line of B1
Level Below
O
Open Stairsrs
O
Sta
Stair
Op
Open Stai
EL. +3'-0"
3
"
EL +3 -0
EL. +3'-0"
+
"
EL. +3'-0"0
+3
7'-6"
7'-6"
-
12'-1"
-
24'-0"
'-
24'-0"
-
24'-0"
'-
10'-0"
8'-0"
0
8 0
1'-6 1/2"
2
/
6
11'-11"
1
11 -11"
1'-10"
7'-9"
23'-6 1/2"
1
11'-11"
1
3'-6"
'-0
1 0
8"
8
'-0
-0
' 0"
0
-6"
Line of Wall
f
i
of Wall
Above
Line of Wall
L
W
i
f Wa l
Above
A
Line of
Roof Above
Line of Deck
Above
Line of
Trellis Above
Line of Wall
W
n
a
e o
Above
b
Ab
Mail
Recreation Room
&
Stretch
Room
3'-6"
Game
Storage
Game
Area
R.R.
Lobby
5'-0"
Unit Type
2'-0"
2
"
4'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
4'-0"
4'-0"
3'-0"
Unit Type
Unit Type
C1
8
Pump
Room
EL. +3'-0"
E
EL.L.
Stair
2
Exhaust
Exhaust
Ex
Shaft
Shaft
Shaft
haft
Sh
Ground Floor Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
12
Floor Plans

--- page 406 ---
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
7'-6"
Stair
2
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-9"
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit
Type
A1.0
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type A2
Unit
Type
A1.2
Top Of Entry
Gate Feature Below
Roof Of
Trash Room
Trellis Below
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
B1.2
12'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
6'-3"
23'-6 1/2"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
8'-11"
6'-11"
Note:
x
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
Unit
Type
A1.0
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
Unit
Type A2
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
Unit
Type
A1.2
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
B1.2
Stair
2
2nd Floor Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
13
Floor Plans

--- page 407 ---
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
7'-4"
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-4"
Stair
2
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit
Type
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type A2
Unit
Type
A1.2
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
Type
B1.2
13'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
1'-0"
Note:
x
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
Unit
Type
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
Unit
Type A2
5'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
5'-0"
Unit
Type
A1.2
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
Type
B1.2
Stair
2
3rd Floor Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
14
Floor Plans

--- page 408 ---
5'-7"
10'-0"
36'-0"
7'-6"
11'-0"
6'-7"
15'-10"
Stair
2
2
A3.1
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type A2
Unit
Type
A1.2
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
B1.2
13'-1"
3'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
2'-6"
3'-6"
3'-6"
24'-0"
3'-0"
13'-0"
3'-6"
10'-5 1/2"
11'-11"
2'-0"
11'-11"
3'-6"
3'-6"
11'-11"
3'-8"
3'-6"
8"
1'-3 1/2"
1'-0"
1'-0"
1'-0"
3'-6"
3'-6"
1'-0"
3'-6"
Note:
x
Automatic fire sprinkler system
are extended to the balconies
5'-0"
6'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
5'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
4'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
Unit
Type
A1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
Unit
Type
B1.0
2'-0"
4'-0"
2'-0"
2
4'-0"
4'-0"
6'-0"
Unit
Type A2
8
5'-0"
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
3'-6"
2'-0"
2
2'-0"
2
5'-0"
5'-0"
Unit
Type
A1.2
Unit
Type
A1.1
Unit
Type
A1.1
B1.2
Stair
2
4th Floor Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
15
Floor Plans

--- page 409 ---
Stair
1
5'-7"
14'-6"
10'-0"
36'-0"
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
7'-4"
11'-0"
6'-7"
13'-4"
Stair
2
Mechanical Condensers
2
A3.0
1
A3.1
1
A3.0
Solar PV Panels
Solar PV Panels
Solar PV Panels
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
C
A4.2
Notes:
x
See Level 4 for all overhang and projection dimensions.
x
The locations of the PV panels per Section 110.10(b)(1)(B)
of the California Energy Code where a minimum of 15% of
the roof area is required, and a minimum of 3 KW per
Section 23.24(A)(1) of the City of San Mateo, etc.
Garage Exhaust Discharge
SOLAR PV AREA TABULATIO
ROOF AREA
14,732.09
PV AREA
 2,416.57 
PV AREA %
 16.40%
Stair
1
Elev.
#1
Elev.
#2
Stair
2
Mechanical Condensers
Solar PV Panels
Solar PV Panels
S a
Solar PV Panels
Garage Exhaust Discharge
Roof Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
16
Floor Plans

--- page 410 ---
Stair
1
32'-5"
Stair
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
COMPACT COMPACT
3'-0"
2'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
25'-0"
B
A4.1
A
A4.0
1
2
24'-0"
Room
22'-0"
18'-0"
4
3
5
6
8
13
17
20
21
22
23
24
18
19
19'-3"
6'-3"
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Down) Spaces 26
-32
9 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Down) Spaces 33
-41
Semi-Automatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Down) Spaces 42
-50
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Down) Spaces 51
-57
7 Space, 2-Level
Semi-Automatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Down) Spaces 58
-64
14'-7"
39'-10"
Storage
El. -9'-0"
3'-0"
36'-0"
36'-2"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
3'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
17'-0"
18'-0"
22'-0"
RAMP UP
18%
1'-6"
Security
Note:  All provided parking spaces are assigned to residents.  Minimum 8'2" vertic
clearance at all drive aisles and accessible parking spaces; minimum 7'-0" vertica
clearance for , standard and compact parking spaces within the B1 Level Parking
Garage.  All parking spaces to have minimum 24' backup dimension except for
compact spaces, which will have a minimum 22' backup dimension.
5'-0"
Utility
Room
14
25
9'-3"
7
8'-9"
9'-0"
9'-0"
C
A4.2
Striping
9
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
8'-0"
15
16
10'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
3'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
7'-0"
5'-2"
9'-9"
9'-9"
PARKING SUMMARY:
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
PARKING CALCULATIONS
PARKING PROVIDED (ALL SPACES ARE ASSIGNED, NO VISITOR PARKING)
EVCS PARKING (PRE-WIRED)
Stair
1
Stair
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
STANDARD
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
9'-0"x18'-0"
COMPACT COMPACT
3'-0"
2'-0"
2
9'-0"
8'-0"
-
9'-0"
25'-0"
1
2
24'-0"
Room
22'-0"
18'-0"
4
3
5
6
8
13
17
20
21
22
23
24
18
19
19'-3"
6'-3"
7 Space, 2-Level
7 S
2 L
l
Spa
Semi-Automatic
utomatic
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
/
Up
1
Lift (
Down) Spaces 26
Down) Spaces 26
-32
32
9 Space, 2-Level
9 Spa
Semi-Automatic
A
i
Sem
S
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
1 U
Down) Spaces 33
) Spa
-41
Semi-Automatic
m
em
Se
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
/
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
Up/
t (1
Down) Spaces 42
4
wn) S
-50
7 Space, 2-Level
ce 2 Level
Semi-Automatic
A
emi
Se
S
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
zle Lift 
Down) Spaces 51
Down) Spaces 51
-57
57
7 Space, 2-Level
ce 2 Level
vel
e
2 Le
,
Semi-Automatic
S
Puzzle Lift (1 Up/1
/
zle L
Down) Spaces 58
Down) Spaces 58
aces 58
-64
6
Storage
El. -9'-0"
9
3'-0"
36'-0"
36'-2"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
3'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
17'-0"
22'-0"
RAMP UP
18%
1'-6"
1
"
1
Security
it
5'-0"
Utility
Room
14
25
9'-3"
7
8'-9"
9'-0"
9'-0"
Striping
9
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
7'-0"
0"
7'
7'-0"
7'-0"
8'-0"
15
16
10'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
(EVCS
PREWIRED)
3'-0"
5'-2"
9'-9"
9'-9"
Basement Level Plan
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
17
Floor Plans

--- page 411 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
SOUTH ELEVATION
2
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
4
A
2
M
10
-
1
D
6
J
1
D
1
F
6
A
4
C
1
E
1
G
1
D
1
D
1
D
10
-
3
H
1
D
2
M
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-99'-0"
2'-6"
5
D
158'-8"
149'-2"
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
REET LEVEL
+/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
EVEL 1
+/-104'-4"
2'-10"
ST. GRADE
 +/-99'-0"
2'-6"
12'-5"
OF PEAK
+/- 155'-10"
VEL 4 PLATE
+/- 143'-8"
EVEL 2
+/- 114'-5"
EVEL 3
+/- 124'-6"
EVEL 4
+/- 134'-7"
13
-
SOUTH ELEVATION
158'-9"
14
A
3
H
10
-
1
D
1
E
6
A
1
D
1
B
10
-
4
C
3
H
1
D
1
G
3
H
3
M
1
F
11
-
11
-
1
K
1
D
1
D
1
E
1
D
10
-
1
G
1
G
3
M
1
D
6
J
1
F
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
5
D
1
D
149'-2"
151'-2"
TRASH ROOM
PODIUM DECK
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-101'-0"
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
6"
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-101'-0"
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
6"
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
13
-
4
A
7
-
8
A
15
-
8
A
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
18
Building Elevations
02
01
East Elevation
South Elevation
1
2

--- page 412 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
NORTH ELEVATION
13
2
1
F
1
9
2
9
J
3
H
1
D
10
-
4
A
1
D
1
E
1
D
1
D
13
1
B
1
6
1
1
4
C
1
G
6
A
1
E
1
D
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
5
1
D
158'-9"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
TRASH ROOM
12
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-5"
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-101'-5"
1"
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-5"
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-101'-5"
1"
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
2
8
HEDGE SCREEN
8
PROPERTY LINE
NORTH ELEVATION
5
D
4
A
1
E
10
-
1
D
1
B
1
D
1
D
9
J
1
G
3
H
6
J
10
-
1
D
1
G
1
E
1
E
1
D
13
-
1
D
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-99'-4"
1'-2"
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
2
M
1
D
149'-2"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
PODIUM DECK
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
EXIST. GRADE
EL. +/-99'-4"
1'-2"
STREET LEVEL
EL. +/-101'-6"
10'-1"
10'-1"
10'-1"
8'-10"
LEVEL 4 PLATE
EL. +/- 143'-8"
LEVEL 2
EL. +/- 114'-5"
LEVEL 3
EL. +/- 124'-6"
LEVEL 4
EL. +/- 134'-7"
LEVEL 1
EL. +/-104'-4"
2'-10"
45'-0" ZONING HEIGHT LIMIT
12'-5"
ROOF PEAK
EL. +/- 155'-10"
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
19
Building Elevations
02
01
West Elevation
South Elevation
1
2

--- page 413 ---
A
TELEGRAY
B  INDUSTRIAL AGE
COLORS & FINISHES
C  WHITE ALUMINUM
D  WHITE
E  TURBULENT SEA
MATERIALS LEGEND:
  1
PLASTER
  2
BRICK VENEER
  3
HORIZONTAL CEMENT
BOARD SIDING
  4
VERTICAL STANDING SEAM
METAL
  5
PAINTED CONCRETE
  6
METAL RAILING
  7
METAL & WOOD
CANOPY
  8
METAL FENCE/GATE
  9
WOOD SLAT RAILING
  10
VINYL WINDOW
  11
ALUMINUM
STOREFRONT
  12
METAL ROLL UP
DOOR
  13
CONCRETE MASONRY BLOCK
  14
PAINTED DOOR
  15
ART MURAL (ARTWORK TBD)
COLOR & FINISH LEGEND:
  A
COLOR TO MATCH
RAL 7045 TELEGREY
  B
PAINT TO MATCH
DET618 INDUSTRIAL AGE
(PLASTER)
  C
COLOR TO MATCH
RAL 9006 WHITE ALUMINUM
  D
PAINT TO MATCH
DEW380 WHITE
  E
PAINT TO MATCH
DE5803 TURBULENT SEA
  F
PAINT TO MATCH
DE5773 STONE SILVER
  G
PAINT TO MATCH
DE5770 SMOKE AND MIRRORS
  H
PAINT TO MATCH
DE6118 SANDPIT
  J
PAINT TO MATCH
DE6231 SHAKER GRAY
  K
PAINT TO MATCH
DET729 MEDALLION
  L
PAINT TO MATCH
DE5359 CROSSROADS
  M
BELDEN BRICK
BLACK DIAMOND VELOUR
  
F
STONE SILVER
G  SMOKE AND MIRRORS
H  SANDPIT
J  SHAKER GRAY
K  MEDALLION
M
BLACK DIAMOND
L  CROSSROADS
1
PLASTER
MATERIALS
2
BRICK VENEER
3
HORIZONTAL CEMENT
BOARD SIDING
4
VERTICAL STANDING
SEAM METAL
5
PAINTED CONCRETE
6
METAL RAILING
7
METAL & WOOD CANOPY 
8
METAL FENCE / GATE
9
WOOD SLAT RAILING
10
VINYL WINDOW
11
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT
12
METAL ROLL UP DOOR
13
CONCRETE MASONRY BLOCK
14
PAINTED DOOR
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
20
Materials & Color Palette

--- page 414 ---
Parking
Garage
Courtyard
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Community
Room
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Property Line
Property Line
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Community
Room
Parking
rkin
a
P
Garage
G
Parking
Garage
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Parking
ik
P
ing
k
Par
Garage
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit B1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit A1
Unit B1
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
21
Building Sections
02
01
01
02
Section 2
Section 1

--- page 415 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
22
Perspective Views
01
1

--- page 416 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
23
Perspective Views
2
02

--- page 417 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
24
Perspective Views
3
03

--- page 418 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
25
Perspective Views
4
04

--- page 419 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
26
Perspective Views
5
05

--- page 420 ---
DESIGN + ARCHITECTURE
URBAN TREEHOUSE 1919 O’FARRELL
27
Perspective Views
6
06

--- page 421 ---
THANK YOU
URBAN TREEHOUSE | 1919 O’FARRELL | SAN MATEO

--- page 422 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5325
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 26, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Zoning Code Clean-Up Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code as follows:
a)
Chapter 27.04, “Definitions” to remove curb level and clarify floor area; 
b)
Chapter 27.64, “Off-Street Parking and Loading” to clarify on-street loading provisions and Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) provisions; 
c)
Chapter 27.71, “Landscape for Planning Applications” to clarify tree provisions; 
d)
Chapter 27.78, “Variance” to clarify tree provisions; and
e)
Title 27, “Zoning Code” to update all references to the California Building Code.
BACKGROUND:
The proposed amendments are intended to clarify existing requirements which are ambiguous, contain errors and/or 
omissions, inconsistent with other provisions of the municipal code, and generate confusion for staff and members of the 
public. The proposed changes to the zoning code are outlined below.  A clean version of the proposed changes is included 
in Attachment 1 (Draft Ordinance) and shown in strike out and underline in Attachment 2 (Proposed Amendments).
Changes to Chapter 27.04 (Definitions) pertaining to curb level
In 1978, the City Council approved a “curb level” definition. In 1985, the City Council approved an amendment to the 
building height definition to measure building height from grade rather than curb level. Thus, this remnant curb level 
definition, which should have been removed as part of the 1985 amendment, is an antiquated definition that no longer 
serves a purpose and is proposed to be removed.  
Changes to Chapter 27.04 (Definitions) pertaining to floor area 
For the purposes of calculating floor area ratio, covered structures such as patios and carports are counted as floor area 
regardless of the number of open sides. The proposed change reformats the list and provides clarity for what is considered 
a covered structure that counts toward floor area ratio.
Changes to Chapters 27.64 (Off-Street Parking and Loading)
When a proposed new development or new use in an existing building requests relief from the requirement to provide off-
street loading berths, a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) or Variance is required. The current Code language 
prohibits an applicant from requesting a SPAR to omit the required off-street loading unless it can be demonstrated that 
only street access to the building is available. The prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is developed 
or proposed for development must have access to a street. The result has been that the provision is confusing and has not 
been applied consistently over the years, resulting in a number of instances where developments have applied for and 
been granted relief from the City’s on-site loading requirements without meeting the prerequisite language.  The intent of

--- page 423 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the proposed code amendment is to clarify the Code for greater transparency and to promote consistency in how the 
provision is applied. The process to request and establish loading elsewhere would not be affected by the proposed 
amendment.  
 
Changes to Chapters 27.71 (Landscape for Planning Applications), Chapter 27.78 (Variance) pertaining to trees.
On May 3, 2021, the City Council repealed Chapters 13.35 Street Trees and 13.52 Heritage Trees, and adopted Chapter 
13.40 Protected Tree. The repeal and new ordinance updated the city’s requirements in line with current best practices. 
Changes are proposed to Chapters 27.71 Landscape and 27.78 Variance to align with Chapter 13.40 for internal 
consistency, incorporate best practices, and provide clarity for customers regarding trees.
Change references to Building Code
The zoning code references the Uniform Building Code (UBC) in multiple places; however, the last publication was in 1997 
and it is no longer used. The amendment would replace references to the Uniform Building Code (UBC) with the California 
Building Code throughout the zoning code.
Next Steps
Once the Planning Commission makes a recommendation, these code amendments will be scheduled for a public hearing 
before the City Council for introduction at the next available meeting date. After introduction, the code amendments will 
be brought back to City Council for adoption and will then go into effect 30 days after adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
These code amendments are fully funded in the Community Development Department’s annual budget, and there is no 
impact on the General Fund.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Zoning Code amendment is exempt from CEQA under the “common sense exemption” (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3)) because it provides clarification and improves legibility, and it can be seen with certainty that the changes will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment.    
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Amendments
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216

--- page 424 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
REPEALING SECTION 27.04.140, “CURB LEVEL,” AMENDING SECTIONS 27.04.200, “FLOOR AREA,” “SCHEDULE 
OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS,” CHAPTERS 27.71, “LANDSCAPE FOR PLANNING APPLICATIONS,” 27.78, 
“VARIANCES,” AND REPLACING REFERENCES TO THE UNIFORM BUILDING CODE WITH REFERENCES TO THE 
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE   
WHEREAS, the City’s Zoning Code is codified in Title 27 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make several minor revisions to Title 27, including deleting the definition 
for “curb level,” clarifying the manner in which floor area is calculated, revising the circumstances under 
which on-street loading berths will be considered, updating cross-references to the City’s protected tree 
ordinance; and replacing references to the Uniform Building Code with references to the California 
Building Code;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 27.04.140, “Curb Level,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 2. Section 27.04.200, “Floor Area,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.04.200 Floor Area.
(a) Definitions.
(1) Floor Area. Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all principal and 
accessory buildings and above grade covered parking on a zoning plot.
(2) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area ratio means the gross floor area of the buildings on a 
zoning plot divided by the net lot area.
(b) Measurement, other than single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building's wall planes, from the 
centerline of party walls, or from a line three feet from the edge of an eave, whichever produces the 
largest floor area. 
(2) Stories exceeding fifteen (15) feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with the 
exception that ground floor retail may be up to eighteen (18) feet in height measured from first finish 
floor to second finish floor before being counted as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all 
accessory structures on the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(6).
(3) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(F) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided that the area is 
not used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;

--- page 425 ---
(G) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are open to the 
public. 
(H) Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be counted only as ground floor area;
(I) Covered walkways and balconies;
(E)First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted only once as 
floor area, regardless of height;
(F)Bicycle parking facilities;
(G)Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a 
multi-family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within 
the primary structure or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(H)Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in areas delineated 
for exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the Mariner's Island Specific Plan or the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan.
(c)Measurement, for single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts, shall include the following:
(1)A covered structure or portion of a building where it has a horizontal or sloped covering 
which consists of 50% or more solid material. 
(2)All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (as measured from the outside 
perimeter of the walls), and the area (or footprint) of any attached carports, covered balconies or 
porches (as measured from the outside perimeter of its support structures).
(A)Exception: To encourage street frontage activity, the first 100 square feet of a 
covered front porch shall not be included as floor area.
(3)The area of all detached accessory structures, regardless of the number of open sides, 
including: 
(A)
Detached garages and carports; 
(B)
Storage sheds and other similar structures; and  
(C)
Covered patios or similar structures. 
(4)
Any interior space where the vertical distance between the upper surface of the floor 
and the floor above is fifteen (15) feet or more shall be counted as twice the floor area. If there is no 
floor above the space, then the distance shall be measured to the underside of the roof structure.
(5)
Attic space is considered floor area when area "A" is at least 50% of areas "A" and "B" 
combined in the following plan-view diagram:

--- page 426 ---
Area "B"
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″)
Area "A"
(ceiling height 7′ 6″ 
or greater)
Area "B"
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″)
(6) A basement is considered floor area when:
(A) It is conditioned space as defined in the California Building Code, or 
(B) More than one-half the area of the outermost basement walls is above finished or 
pre-existing grade (whichever is lower), and the surface of the finished floor level above is 
either:
(i) More than four feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) 
for more than 50% of the total perimeter, or
(ii) More than twelve (12) feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is 
lower) at any point.
(7) A basement is considered both floor area and a story when it meets the conditions described 
in subsection (6)(b).
(d) Off-Street Parking and Loading. Floor area for determining off-street parking and loading 
requirements as contained in Chapter 27.64, shall be based on physical floor space and shall not include the 
following:
(1) Storage areas except for areas located within selling or working space such as counters, 
racks, and closets;
(2) Utility areas including, but not limited to, elevator shafts, telephone switching rooms, 
stairwells, rest rooms, and heating and cooling rooms;
(3) Accessory facilities to be used only by employees of the principal uses;
(4) Off-street parking and loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space;
(5) Basement, attic, or mezzanine floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, to 
the production of processing of goods, or to business or professional offices;
(6) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-family, 
commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the primary structure or 
may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(7) Floor Area Computed for Building Volume. Additional parking shall be required in the event 
of change of excluded floor areas into uses generating parking.
(e) Interpretation. All interpretations of floor area shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
Zoning Administrator.

--- page 427 ---
(f) No change in the definition or calculation of floor area, except to the extent that the City Council 
expressly states that the change allows greater floor area, shall be construed to authorize an expansion of the 
allowable floor area of a building or structure, whether pursuant to Chapter 27.72 or otherwise.
Section 3. Section 27.64.390, “Schedule of Loading Requirements,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended to read as follows:
27.64.390 Schedule of Loading Requirements.
All planning applications shall include a description of the means by which loading activities for the 
intended use are to be accommodated. For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading berths shall 
be provided on the basis of number of residential units or gross floor area of building or portions thereof 
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown herein. Off-street loading berths as prescribed below shall be 
accessible from a public alley, driveway easement, or from an adjacent off-street parking area. The 
requirements for off-street loading berths may be modified by one of the following means:
(a) Approval of a site plan and architectural review (SPAR) by the Zoning Administrator, based on the 
following findings:
(1) Adequate on-street parking is available along a parcel frontage to accommodate a loading 
berth;
(2) The on-street loading berth is intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 
50 feet from any intersections, and provides convenient access to building entrances; and 
(3) The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding use of the 
sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to public safety. 
(b) Approval of a variance application in accordance with Chapter 27.78.
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS (ON- AND OFF-STREET)
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
A. Hospitals, Sanitariums, and other institutional 
uses.
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
20,000 to 150,000
2
10' x 50'
B. Hotels, Clubs, Lodges—when containing any of 
the following: Retail Shops, Restaurants, 
Convention Halls, Auditoriums, Exhibition Halls, or 
Business or Professional Offices (other than 
accessory)
for each additional 150,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
5,000 to 12,000
1
10' x 25'
12,000 to 25,000
2
10' x 25'
25,000 to 40,000
2
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
3
10' x 50'
C. Retail Stores
D. Establishments Dispensing Food or Beverage, for 
Consumption on the Premises, except for Fast Food 
Establishments
E. Motor Vehicle and Machinery Sales
F. Wholesale Establishments (but not including 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'

--- page 428 ---
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
warehouse and storage buildings other than 
accessory)
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 50'
G. Auditoriums, Convention Halls, Exhibition Halls, 
Sports Arenas, Stadiums
H. Bowling Alleys
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
50,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
I. Banks and Offices – Business, Professional and 
Governmental
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 25'
5,000 to 10,000
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 40,000
1
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
2
10' x 50'
J. Establishments engaged in Production, 
Processing, Cleaning, Servicing, Testing, or Repair of 
Materials, Goods, or Products
K. Warehouses and Storage Buildings
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 50'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
L. Theaters
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
M. Funeral Homes
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
2,000 to 7,000
1
10' x 25'
N. Fast Food Establishments
7,000 to 12,000
2
10' x 25'
O. Multiple-Family Residential*
50 or more units
1
10' x 25'
* May be eliminated in mixed-use developments where a minimum of 1 loading berth is required for 
nonresidential uses.
Section 4. Section 27.71.020, “Scope,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.71.020 Scope.
(a) This chapter shall apply as a minimum for all projects requiring approval of a planning application 
pursuant to Section 27.08.010, except for single-family dwelling design review applications. Landscaping not 
subject to this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 13.40. The Zoning Administrator may 
determine that minor additions or changes to existing property are not reasonably related to the purpose of this 
chapter and may be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
Section 5. Section 27.71.040, “Definitions,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.71.040 Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
(a) “Existing Trees” means all existing trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter (measured at 54 inches 
from natural grade) on the subject property and any Protected Trees on the subject property or any property 
within 30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity, as outlined in Section 13.40.080.

--- page 429 ---
(b) "Groundcover" means low growing live perennial vegetation, other than turf, of a species which is 
sold as a groundcover or shrub by licensed nurserymen.
(c) A "heritage tree" is as defined in Chapter 13.40.
(d) "Landscape" or "landscaped area" means an area that consists of living plantings.
(e) "Landscape unit (LU)" means the unit of measurement for trees which indicates the worth of each 
relative to one another and towards satisfying City requirements.
(f) "Natural landscaping" means an area consisting of uncultivated native plant growth and other 
features of natural terrain such as rock outcroppings, streams or other areas covered by water.
(g) "Plantings" means annuals, groundcover, turf grass, shrubs or trees.
(h) “Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or Street Tree as defined in Chapter 13.40 or a tree 
designated as protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to this Chapter.
(i) “Project Arborist” means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist.
(j) "Shrubs" means live perennial vegetation, greater than an average height of two (2) feet and 
maintained below twelve (12) feet in height. Vines shall be considered shrubs.
(k) “Street Tree” means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of 
achieving ten (10) feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public 
right of way or a designated planting easement.
(l) "Trees" means a live self-supporting woody plant having at least one well defined stem or trunk and 
normally attaining a mature height and spread of at least twelve (12) feet, and having a trunk that may, at 
maturity, be kept clear of leaves and branches at least six (6) feet above grade.
(m) "Turfgrass" means live vegetation of a species normally grown as turf by a nursery and which is 
maintained at a height of three inches or less.
Section 6. Section 27.71.070, “Submittals Required for a Planning Application,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is amended to read as follows:
27.71.070 Submittals Required for a Planning Application.
(a) All landscape plans must be at a reasonable scale to indicate all types of improvements. All plans 
must contain sufficient information to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter and must 
include, but are not limited to, the following information:
(1) North arrow and scale;
(2) The name of the applicant/owner;

--- page 430 ---
(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or firm responsible for the 
preparation of the plans and other required information;
(4) The dates the plans are submitted and revised;
(5) All existing and proposed buildings and other structures, paved areas, planted areas, power 
poles, fire hydrants, light standards, signs, fences, and other permanent features to be added and/or 
retained on the site;
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule 
identifying Major Vegetation (as defined in Chapter 23.40) and all Protected Trees including trunk 
diameter, species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing 
and proposed replacement LU values;
(7) All existing and proposed streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, railroad tracks, drainage 
ditches, and other public or semi-public improvements within and immediately adjacent to the site;
(8) Contour lines, if the slopes are in excess of 10%;
(9) Existing and proposed topographic elevations at sufficient locations, to clearly show the 
drainage pattern unless this information is provided on a grading plan or other documents in the 
planning application;
(10) All property lines and easements;
(11) Square footage of all planted area;
(12) Species, sizes and location of all proposed plant material including the accurate driplines of 
all Protected Trees;
(13) Soil tests as required by the discretion of the Zoning Administrator; and
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Chapter 13.40 and the Administrative Guidelines.
(b) All projects with over 1,000 square feet of new or modified planting areas as required to meet the 
provisions of this chapter shall have all landscape plans and accompanying documents prepared or reviewed and 
found acceptable by a licensed landscape architect registered with the State of California.
Section 7.  Section 27.71.080, “Submittals Required for a Building Permit Application,” is amended to read as 
follows:  
27.71.080 Submittals Required for a Building Permit Application.
(a) All of the required submittals for a planning application;
(b) Type and depth of mulch indicated on the plan;
(c) An irrigation plan accurately drawn to scale that indicates all components of the irrigation system including 
sprinklers and other outlets, valves, the backflow prevention device(s), controller(s), and piping;

--- page 431 ---
(d) All tree information required in Section 27.71.150 and Chapter 13.40; 
(e) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape area for the plant establishment period;
(f) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area, financial securities as required in Section 
27.71.090; and
(g) Soil tests as required in Section 27.71.110.
Section 8. Section 27.71.090, “Requirements for Use or Issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy,” is amended to 
read as follows: 
27.71.090 Requirements for Use or Issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
(a) Prior to use, final inspection, or the issuance of certificate of occupancy, all landscaping shall be installed in 
conformance with the approved plans.
(b) Phased Projects. Incremental landscape installation may be permitted by the Zoning Administrator when 
building construction is phased.
(c) Financial Security. Financial security shall be required for all projects with over 10,000 square feet of 
landscape area and for all residential condominiums. On smaller projects where adverse weather, drought 
conditions or project phasing prohibit the installation of landscaping, the Zoning Administrator may allow 
financial security to be submitted to the City in order to allow use or issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The 
security shall be in a form which is legally sufficient to ensure the preservation of trees and the installation of all 
approved landscape improvements. Financial security shall be returned to the applicant upon completion of the 
plant establishment period. The City shall be the beneficiary and the sole determinant of compliance and 
completion. A detailed cost estimate of all landscape improvements plus the value of any existing trees to 
remain, as determined in Section 27.71.150, shall be used to determine the amount of security.
Section 9. Section 27.71.100, “Landscape Compatibility and Soil Testing,” is amended to read as follows: 
 27.71.100 Landscape Compatibility and Soil Testing.
The location and nature of all landscaping shall be compatible with the soil, amendments, existing plantings to 
remain and character of the landscaping in the vicinity. For projects with over 10,000 square feet of landscape 
area or in areas of questionable soils such as the foothills or areas of bay fill, soils testing shall be required. 
Testing shall be performed by a professional testing laboratory. Soil shall be amended according to test report 
recommendations.
Section 10. Section 27.71.110, “Plant Coverage and Tree Sizes,” is amended to read as follows:
27.71.110 Plant Coverage and Tree Sizes. 
(a) Allowed Bare Ground. Areas of bare ground or ground covered only by bark or rocks shall be allowed on-site 
only where required as part of an approved facility, such as a baseball diamond, vegetable garden, flowerbed, or 
similar use.

--- page 432 ---
(b) Allowed Natural Landscaping. Natural landscaping shall be allowed only in areas where it is compatible with 
the surrounding environment.
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of installation, 
except for heritage tree replacements, which shall be replaced according to Chapter 13.40 and the 
Administrative Guidelines. 
(d) Plant Coverage.
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped area. 
The ratio may include existing trees and required parking area trees. Public parks, golf courses, 
cemeteries, school recreation areas and public facilities are not required to meet this ratio.
(2) Groundcover and shrub massing areas shall be planted in a manner or at the spacings recommended 
by the American Association of Nurserymen, to uniformly cover the proposed groundcover areas within 
two years and the shrub areas within five years or a period optimum for the species.
(e) Security Planting. The use of plant materials that promote building security is encouraged. A list of such 
materials may be obtained from the Planning Division. Perimeter landscaped areas should incorporate thorny 
plant materials to discourage persons from cutting through parking areas, trampling vegetation near ground 
floor windows, or climbing perimeter fences and walls.
Section 11. Subsection (a), “Tree Planting,” of Section 27.71.120, “Street Trees,” is amended to read as follows:
(a) Tree Planting. 
(1) 24-inch box size or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with the City 
Street Tree Master Plan. The City Arborist shall have the authority to recommend planting of fifteen (15) 
gallon street trees when:
(A)Upon written request by the applicant; and 
(B) The fifteen (15) gallon size trees are the only ones available in stock, or 
(C)The quality of the fifteen (15) gallon size trees are superior to that available in 24-inch box 
size.   
(2) Trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed 30 feet except to allow for utilities, street 
furnishings, driveways, and other provisions deemed necessary by the city to ensure public safety. Trees 
shall be planted closer than 30 feet if so recommended by the City Arborist.
(3) Access Easement. Where a planning application requires a parcel or tentative map, an access easement shall 
be required if the street trees are to be located on private property and no such easement exists. However, it is 
recommended that even when a parcel or tentative map is not required or included, an easement be provided 
to the City for site access purposes in the event of an emergency or a hazardous situation.
Section 12. Section 27.71.130, “Parking Areas,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

--- page 433 ---
Section 27.71.130 Parking Areas.
The following requirements shall apply to open parking areas containing five or more parking spaces.
(a) Setbacks. Whenever a parking area is located adjacent to any residential use or zone and along all street 
frontages, a landscape strip shall be provided that is equal in width to five percent of the parking lot depth or six 
feet, whichever is greater.
(b) Percentage of Parking Areas to be Landscaped. At least 10% of the open parking area shall be landscaped. 
The following shall be considered in computing the landscape area:
(1) Parking area includes all paved surfaces devoted to on-site circulation and parking;
(2) Only those landscaped areas within six feet of a parking stall or aisle shall apply towards meeting the 10% 
requirement;
(3) Areas to be considered shall include planting areas and required curbing.
(c) Screening. All open parking areas shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any 
property in a residential zone and along all street frontages. Screening of adjoining property shall be a minimum 
of four feet to a maximum of six feet in height. Screening along street frontages shall be at least two and one-
half feet in height for at least 80% of its length. Screening shall be accomplished by a wall, fence, earth berm, 
densely planted shrub mass or any combination of the above. Where walls or fences are provided, they shall be 
located adjacent to the edge of the parking lots. Screening shall conform with the sight distance requirements 
contained in Chapter 27.84 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(d) Parking Lot Islands.
(1) All islands and small areas unused for parking or circulation shall be landscaped. The Zoning Administrator 
may determine that certain areas for reasons of size, aesthetics or circulation should not be landscaped and may 
approve paving in those areas.
(2) Interior landscape islands, having a minimum dimension of five feet including curb, shall be provided after 
every 10 parking spaces in a row to provide for tree planting.
(e) Required Trees. For each three parking spaces at least one tree shall be planted within the parking lot 
landscaped area in addition to any required street trees. Existing trees may be included in the required total.
(f) Protection of Planting Areas. All planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic. For parking 
lots containing five stalls or more, this requirement shall be met by a six-inch-high vertical concrete curb. For 
parking lots containing less than five stalls, this requirement may be met by a concrete wheel stop in front of 
each diagonal or perpendicular stall plus a minimum six-inch-high concrete curb in other areas or approved 
equal. No trees or shrubs shall be planted and sprinkler heads shall be kept below curb height within two feet six 
inches of any curb or wheel stops which front upon parking stalls or backup areas.
Section 13. Subsection (a) of Section 27.71.150, “Preservation of Existing Trees,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is amended to read as follows:

--- page 434 ---
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter, measured at 54 inches from 
natural grade and Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a Protected Tree. 
Section 14. Subsection (b) of Section 27.71.150, “Preservation of Existing Trees,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is amended to read as follows:
(b) Required Submittals. To evaluate the existing trees the landscape plan and a tree evaluation schedule shall 
be submitted with the planning application showing:
(1) The location of all existing trees six (6) inches or greater in trunk diameter (measured at 54 inches 
from natural grade), noting which are to be removed and which are located within the allowable 
building area;
(2) Trunk diameter in inches measured 54 inches above natural grade;
(3) Species name and species value as determined by utilizing the most recent edition of the Guide for 
Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers;
(4) Condition and location value of trees as determined by an ISA Certified Arborist;
(5) The total LU value of trees to be removed; and
(6) The total LU value of replacement trees.
Section 15.  Subsection (c) of Section 27.72.150, “Landscape Unit Value (LU),” of the San Mateo Municipal Code 
is amended to read as follows:
(c) Landscape Unit Value (LU).
(1) The tree species, condition, and location values of the trees shall be based on an evaluation by an 
experienced landscape appraiser recognized by the American Society of Consulting Arborists utilizing the 
most recent Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers; and 
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(2) Trees not within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of 1.0 (100%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(3) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(4) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%).
The species, condition and location value assume an average tree value to be .70 (.7 x .7 x .7 = .343). All 
existing trees to be removed shall be given a LU value based upon the following calculation:

--- page 435 ---
Section 16. Subsection (d) of Section 27.71.150, “Tree Replacement,” is amended to read as follows:
(d) Tree Replacement. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total removed 
LU value. The following rates shall be given to replacement trees to obtain the replacement LU value:
The LU value for replacement street trees shall be calculated separately from non-street trees.
Section 17. Subsection (e) of Section 27.71.150, “Preservation of Existing Trees,” is amended to read as follows:
(e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. The site design shall make every reasonable effort to preserve heritage trees, 
consistent with Chapter 13.40. Conditions shall also be imposed to protect heritage trees during construction. 
Heritage trees shall be removed only when it is demonstrated that preservation of these trees would result in a 
threat to health, safety, and welfare due to a hazardous tree condition, impacts on soil erosion and stability, or 
an unreasonable effect upon the economic enjoyment of the property, consistent with Chapter 13.40.
Section 18. Subsection (f) of Section 27.71.150, “Protection of Existing Trees,” is amended to read as follows.
 The site design shall make reasonable effort to protect existing trees. The design shall be evaluated as to how it 
protects existing trees or the reasons for removal of existing trees. Tree protection measures shall be provided 
for trees to remain on-site, which shall be consistent with Chapter 13.40 and imposed as a condition of 
approvals.
Section 19. Section 27.78.020, “Conditions for Granting of Chapter 27.78, “Variances,” is amended to read:  
27.78.020 Conditions for Granting.
(b) Parking stall dimension variances shall also meet all of the following limitations:
(1) Handicapped stalls required by the State Architect's Handicapped Access Regulations are not eligible 
for this process.
(2) The application must be based on constraints imposed by physical features of the site (such as 
slopes, Major Vegetation to be preserved as defined in Chapter 23.40, or Protected Trees as defined in 
Chapter 13.40), or existing structural improvements. No variance shall be granted for stall dimensions

--- page 436 ---
due to mere lack of space on the site to meet standard requirements for the project, nor for the sole 
purposes of design simplicity, reduced cost or other convenience of the applicant.
(3) Variances for the width of stalls shall only be allowed for locating posts or stub walls in the very front 
or rear part of the stalls where they will not obstruct the swing of doors for passenger vehicles, or to 
allow continued use of established parking structures.
(4) The application meets one or more of the following:
(A) The variance is needed to continue using existing facilities;
(B) No more than one dimension is to vary, and by not more than 1 foot width or 6 inches height or 2 feet 
length;
(C) No more than 10% of all required stalls, or 3 stalls, whichever is greater, are to vary;
(D) The total volume of each of the stalls will be at least 95% of the unvaried volume of height, width and depth 
combined.
Section 20.  Throughout the Zoning Code, replace references to the “Uniform Building Code (UBC)” with the 
“California Building Code.”
Section 21. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, these 
proposed Zoning Code amendments are not a “project” subject to CEQA in that the amendments will not have a 
direct or indirect effect on the physical environment.
Section 22. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 23. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 24. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here

--- page 437 ---
Attachment 2 – Proposed Amendments  
 
Notes:   
• 
Staff clarification/comments are shown as italicized text. 
• 
Existing code language that are proposed to be removed are shown as strike-out text.   
• 
Proposed code language is shown as underlined text. 
 
 
 
 
CURB LEVEL  
 
Reason for Proposed Change:  In 1978, the City Council approved a “curb level” definition. In 1985, the City 
Council approved an amendment to the building height definition to measure building height from grade rather 
than curb level. Thus, this remnant curb level definition, which should have been removed as part of the 1985 
amendment, is an antiquated definition that no longer serves a purpose and is proposed to be removed.
 
 
Proposed Change: 
 
27.04.140 CURB LEVEL. 
"Curb level" means the officially established grade of the curb fronting the midpoint of a lot. Where a building 
faces on more than one street, a "curb level" shall be determined for each frontage. Where no curb elevation 
has been established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this 
title.  
(Ord. No. 1978-18 § 17; prior code § 142.01(48).)

--- page 438 ---
FLOOR AREA – COVERED STRUCTURES 
 
Reason for Proposed Change:  For the purposes of calculating floor area ratio, covered structures such as 
patios and carports are counted as floor area regardless of the number of open sides. The proposed change 
reformats the list and provides clarity for what is considered a covered structure that counts toward floor area 
ratio. 
 
 
Proposed change:  
 
27.04.200 FLOOR AREA. 
(a) Definitions. 
(1) Floor Area. Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all principal and accessory 
buildings and above grade covered parking on a zoning plot. 
(2) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area ratio means the gross floor area of the buildings on a zoning plot 
divided by the net lot area. 
(b) Measurement, other than single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts. 
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building's wall planes, from the centerline of 
party walls, or from a line three feet from the edge of an eave, whichever produces the largest floor 
area. Stories exceeding fifteen (15) feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with the 
exception that ground floor retail may be up to eighteen (18) feet in height measured from first finish 
floor to second finish floor before being counted as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all 
accessory structures on the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(5)(6). 
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area: 
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided that the area is not 
used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access; 
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are open to the public. 
Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be counted only as ground floor area; 
(C) Covered walkways and balconies; 
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted only once as floor 
area, regardless of height; 
(E) Bicycle parking facilities; 
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-
family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the 
primary structure or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure; 
(G) Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in areas delineated for 
exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the Mariner's Island Specific Plan or the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan. 
(c) Measurement, for single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts, shall include the following: 
(1) All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (measured from the outside perimeter 
of said walls). 
(1) A covered structure or portion of a building where it has a horizontal or sloped covering which 
consists of 50% or more solid material.  
(2) The area of all accessory structures, including garages, carports, and storage sheds, and covered 
patios, porches (excepting covered porches of up to 100 square feet), and other similar structures that 
are enclosed on three or more sides.

--- page 439 ---
(2) All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (as measured from the outside 
perimeter of the walls), and the area (or footprint) of any attached carports, covered balconies or 
porches (as measured from the outside perimeter of its support structures). 
 
(A) Exception: to encourage street frontage activity, the first 100 square feet of a covered front 
porch shall not be included as floor area. 
(3) The area of all detached accessory structures, regardless of the number of open sides, including:  
(A) Detached garages and carports;  
(B) Storage sheds and other similar structures; and   
(C) Covered patios or similar structures.  
(3) (4) Any interior space where the vertical distance between the upper surface of the floor and the 
floor above is fifteen (15) feet or more shall be counted as twice the floor area. If there is no floor 
above the space, then the distance shall be measured to the underside of the roof structure. 
(4) (5) Attic space is considered floor area when area "A" is at least 50% of areas "A" and "B" combined 
in the following plan-view diagram: 
Area "B" 
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″) 
Area "A" 
(ceiling height 7′ 6″ 
or greater) 
Area "B" 
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″) 
(5) A basement is considered floor area and a story when more than one-half the area of the 
outermost basement walls are above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) and the 
surface of the finished floor level above is either: 
(A) More than four feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) for more 
than 50% of the total perimeter, or 
(B) More than 12 feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) at any point. 
(6) A basement is considered floor area when: 
(A) It is conditioned space as defined in the California Building Code, or  
(B) More than one-half the area of the outermost basement walls is above finished or pre-
existing grade (whichever is lower), and the surface of the finished floor level above is either: 
1) More than four feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) for 
more than 50% of the total perimeter, or 
2) More than twelve (12) feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) 
at any point. 
(7) A basement is considered both floor area and a story when it meets the conditions described in 
subsection (6)(b). 
 (d) Off-Street Parking and Loading. Floor area for determining off-street parking and loading requirements as 
contained in Chapter 27.64, shall be based on physical floor space and shall not include the following: 
(1) Storage areas except for areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks, and 
closets; 
(2) Utility areas including, but not limited to, elevator shafts, telephone switching rooms, stairwells, 
rest rooms, and heating and cooling rooms; 
(3) Accessory facilities to be used only by employees of the principal uses; 
(4) Off-street parking and loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space; 
(5) Basement, attic, or mezzanine floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, to the 
production of processing of goods, or to business or professional offices; 
(6) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-family, 
commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the primary structure 
or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure; 
(7) Floor Area Computed for Building Volume. Additional parking shall be required in the event of 
change of excluded floor areas into uses generating parking. 
(e) Interpretation. All interpretations of floor area shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning 
Administrator.

--- page 440 ---
(f) No change in the definition or calculation of floor area, except to the extent that the City Council expressly 
states that the change allows greater floor area, shall be construed to authorize an expansion of the allowable 
floor area of a building or structure, whether pursuant to Chapter 27.72 or otherwise.

--- page 441 ---
LOADING ZONES 
 
Reason for Proposed Change:  When a proposed new development or new use in an existing building requests 
relief from the requirement to provide off-street loading berths, a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) or 
Variance is required. The current Code language prohibits an applicant from requesting a SPAR to omit the 
required off-street loading unless it can be demonstrated that only street access to the building is available. The 
prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is developed or proposed for development must 
have access to a street. The result has been that the provision is confusing and has not been applied 
consistently over the years, resulting in a number of instances where developments have applied for and been 
granted relief from the City’s on-site loading requirements without meeting the prerequisite language.  The 
intent of the proposed code amendment is to clarify the Code for greater transparency and to promote 
consistency in how the provision is applied. The process to request and establish loading elsewhere would not 
be affected by the proposed amendment.   
 
 
Proposed Change: 
 
Chapter 27.64 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING 
 
27.64.390 SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS. 
All planning applications shall include a description of the means by which loading activities for the intended 
use are to be accommodated. For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading berths shall be 
provided on the basis of number of residential units or gross floor area of building or portions thereof devoted 
to such uses in the amounts shown herein. Off-street loading berths as prescribed below shall be required 
where access to such berths is available accessible from a public alley, driveway easement, or from an adjacent 
off-street parking area. Where only street access is available, tThe requirements for off-street loading berths 
may be modified by one of the following means: 
(a) Approval of a site plan and architectural review (SPAR) by the Development Review Board Zoning 
Administrator, based on the following findings: that each of the following conditions pertain: 
(1) Adequate on-street parking is available along the parcel frontage to accommodate a loading 
vehicle; 
(2) On-The on-street parking intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 50 feet from 
any intersections, and provides convenient access to building entrances; and 
(3) The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding use of the 
sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to public safety; or 
 (b) Approval of a variance application in accordance with Chapter 27.78. 
 
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS (ON- AND OFF-STREET) 
USE 
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS 
NO. 
OF BERTHS 
A. Hospitals, Sanitariums, and other institutional 
uses. 
20,000 to 100,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 25' 
B. Hotels, Clubs, Lodges—when containing any of 
the following: Retail Shops, Restaurants, 
10,000 to 20,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
20,000 to 150,000 
2 
10' x 50'

--- page 442 ---
USE 
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS 
NO. 
OF BERTHS 
Convention Halls, Auditoriums, Exhibition Halls, or 
Business or Professional Offices (other than 
accessory) 
for each additional 150,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 50' 
C. Retail Stores 
D. Establishments Dispensing Food or Beverage, for 
Consumption on the Premises, except for Fast Food 
Establishments 
E. Motor Vehicle and Machinery Sales 
F. Wholesale Establishments (but not including 
warehouse and storage buildings other than 
accessory) 
5,000 to 12,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
12,000 to 25,000 
2 
10' x 25' 
25,000 to 40,000 
2 
10' x 50' 
40,000 to 100,000 
3 
10' x 50' 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 50' 
G. Auditoriums, Convention Halls, Exhibition Halls, 
Sports Arenas, Stadiums 
H. Bowling Alleys 
10,000 to 20,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
20,000 to 100,000 
1 
10' x 50' 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 50' 
I. Banks and Offices – Business, Professional and 
Governmental 
50,000 to 100,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add 
1 
10' x 25' 
J. Establishments engaged in Production, 
Processing, Cleaning, Servicing, Testing, or Repair of 
Materials, Goods, or Products 
K. Warehouses and Storage Buildings 
5,000 to 10,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
10,000 to 40,000 
1 
10' x 50' 
40,000 to 100,000 
2 
10' x 50' 
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add 
1 
10' x 50' 
L. Theaters 
8,000 to 25,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 25' 
M. Funeral Homes 
8,000 to 25,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add 
1 
10' x 25' 
N. Fast Food Establishments 
2,000 to 7,000 
1 
10' x 25' 
7,000 to 12,000 
2 
10' x 25' 
O. Multiple-Family Residential* 
50 or more units 
1 
10' x 25' 
* May be eliminated in mixed-use developments where a minimum of 1 loading berth is required for 
nonresidential uses.

--- page 443 ---
TREES 
 
Reason for Proposed Change:  On May 3, 2021, the City Council repealed Chapters 13.35 Street Trees and 
13.52 Heritage Trees, and adopted Chapter 13.40 Protected Tree. The repeal and new ordinance updated the 
city’s requirements in line with current best practices. Changes are proposed to Chapters 27.71 Landscape and 
27.78 Variance to align with Chapter 13.40 for internal consistency, incorporate best practices, and provide 
clarity for customers regarding trees. 
 
 
 
Proposed Change: 
 
Chapter 27.71 LANDSCAPE FOR PLANNING APPLICATIONS 
 
27.71.010 PURPOSE. 
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance the quality of life in San Mateo by the provision for appropriate 
design of landscaping and through the preservation of existing trees. Landscaping shall be a major component 
of all site design in order to create a city that has a strong landscaped character. The intent is that individual 
neighborhood character be developed and maintained, architecture be softened by plant materials where 
appropriate, conflicting uses be buffered, parking areas be screened, comfortable outdoor living and walking 
spaces be created, air pollution be mitigated and future developments be made water efficient. 
 
27.71.020 SCOPE. 
This chapter shall apply as a minimum for all projects requiring approval of a planning application pursuant 
to Section 27.08.010, except for single-family dwelling design review applications. Landscaping not subject 
to this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 10.52, Heritage Trees Chapter 13.40. The Zoning 
Administrator may determine that minor additions or changes to existing property are not reasonably related 
to the purpose of this chapter and may be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. 
 
27.71.030 GENERAL OBJECTIVES. 
(a) Required Landscaping. All required front and street side yards shall be landscaped, except for necessary 
driveways and walkways. In all other areas landscaping shall be required except for necessary circulation areas, 
paved outdoor living areas or water features. 
(b) Buffering and Screening. Plantings shall be provided to buffer residential uses from commercial or industrial 
uses. Plantings shall also be provided to screen service and storage areas, parking lots or unsightly areas. 
Plantings shall be used where appropriate to control noise, wind, climate and ensure privacy. 
(c) Outdoor Living Areas. Landscaping shall be arranged so as to provide usable outdoor living areas where 
appropriate. Plant materials and architectural features should be used to control noise, sun and wind and 
provide adequate privacy. 
(d) Composition of Required Landscaping. All required landscaping shall include the planting and maintenance 
of some combination of trees, groundcover, shrubs, vines, annuals and lawns. In addition, the combination or 
design may include natural or structural features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, 
artwork, screens, walls, and fences. 
(e) Security. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained to provide aesthetic quality while promoting 
building security.

--- page 444 ---
(f) Minimum Requirements. The provisions contained in this chapter are intended to be a minimum standard. 
Compatibility with other projects and compliance with required findings and adopted goals and policies of the 
City shall be evaluated through the planning application process. 
 
27.71.040 DEFINITIONS. 
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter: 
(a) “Existing Trees” means all existing trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter (measured at 54 inches from 
natural grade) on the subject property and any Protected Trees on the subject property or any property within 
30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity, as outlined in Section 13.40.080. 
(a) (b) "Groundcover" means low growing live perennial vegetation, other than turf, of a species which is sold 
as a groundcover or shrub by licensed nurserymen. 
(b)  A "heritage tree" is any one of the following: 
(1) Any bay (Umbellularia californica), buckeye (Aesculus spp.), oak (Quercus spp.), cedar (Cedrus ssp.) 
or redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) tree that has a diameter of 10 inches or more measured at 48 
inches above natural grade; 
(2) A tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special historical value 
or of significant community benefit; 
(3) A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival; and 
(4) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of 16 inches or more, measured at 48 inches above natural 
grade. 
(c) A "heritage tree" is as defined in Chapter 13.40. 
(c) (d) "Landscape" or "landscaped area" means an area that consists of living plantings. 
(d) (e)"Landscape unit (LU)" means the unit of measurement for trees which indicates the worth of each 
relative to one another and towards satisfying City requirements. 
(e) (f) "Natural landscaping" means an area consisting of uncultivated native plant growth and other features 
of natural terrain such as rock outcroppings, streams or other areas covered by water. 
(f) (g) "Plantings" means annuals, groundcover, turf grass, shrubs or trees. 
(h) “Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or Street Tree as defined in Chapter 13.40 or a tree designated as 
protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to this Chapter. 
(i) Project Arborist means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City 
Arborist. 
(g) (j) "Shrubs" means live perennial vegetation, greater than an average height of two (2) feet and maintained 
below twelve (12) feet in height. Vines shall be considered as shrubs. 
(k) “Street Tree” means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of achieving ten 
(10) feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public right of way or 
a designated planting easement. 
(h) (l) "Trees" means a live self-supporting woody plant having at least one well defined stem or trunk and 
normally attaining a mature height and spread of at least twelve (12) feet, and having a trunk that may, at 
maturity, be kept clear of leaves and branches at least six (6) feet above grade. 
(i) (m) "Turfgrass" means live vegetation of a species normally grown as turf by a nursery and which is 
maintained at a height of three inches or less. 
 
27.71.050 MAINTENANCE. 
All landscape areas shall be maintained free of weeds, litter and debris. All plantings shall be maintained in a 
healthy growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to ensure 
continued conformance with approved plans. 
 
27.71.060 PLANT ESTABLISHMENT PERIOD.

--- page 445 ---
A plant establishment period of three growing season months (March through October) shall be required for 
all landscape areas. At the completion of this period all plant materials shall be in a healthy condition and the 
landscaped area shall be maintained free of weeds, litter and debris. 
(a) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape for the plant establishment period shall be submitted. 
(b) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area and for all residential condominiums, 
financial securities shall be held by the City as required in Section 27.71.090 to ensure compliance with the 
plant establishment period. 
 
27.71.070 SUBMITTALS REQUIRED FOR A PLANNING APPLICATION. 
(a) All landscape plans must be at a reasonable scale to indicate all types of improvements. All plans must 
contain sufficient information to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter and must include, 
but are not limited to, the following information: 
(1) North arrow and scale; 
(2) The name of the applicant/owner; 
(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or firm responsible for the preparation of the 
plans and other required information; 
(4) The dates the plans are submitted and revised; 
(5) All existing and proposed buildings and other structures, paved areas, planted areas, power poles, 
fire hydrants, light standards, signs, fences, and other permanent features to be added and/or 
retained on the site; 
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule identifying trees 
as to size, species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing 
and proposed replacement LU values; 
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule identifying 
Major Vegetation (as defined in Chapter 23.40) and all Protected Trees including trunk diameter, 
species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing and 
proposed replacement Landscape Unit (LU) values; 
(7) All existing and proposed streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, railroad tracks, drainage ditches, 
and other public or semi-public improvements within and immediately adjacent to the site; 
(8) Contour lines, if the slopes are in excess of 10%; 
(9) Existing and proposed topographic elevations at sufficient locations, to clearly show the drainage 
pattern unless this information is provided on a grading plan or other documents in the planning 
application; 
(10) All property lines and easements; 
(11) Square footage of all planted area; 
(12) Species, sizes and location of all proposed plant material including the accurate driplines of all 
Protected Trees; 
(13) Soil tests as required by the discretion of the Zoning Administrator; and 
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Section 13.52.025(c) of the municipal code. 
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Chapter 13.40 and the Administrative Guidelines. 
(b) All projects with over 1,000 square feet of new or modified planting areas as required to meet the 
provisions of this chapter shall have all landscape plans and accompanying documents prepared or reviewed 
and found acceptable by a licensed landscape architect registered with the State of California. 
 
27.71.080 SUBMITTALS REQUIRED FOR A BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION. 
(a) All of the required submittals for a planning application; 
(b) Type and depth of mulch indicated on the plan; 
(c) An irrigation plan accurately drawn to scale that indicates all components of the irrigation system including 
sprinklers and other outlets, valves, the backflow prevention device(s), controller(s), and piping; 
(d) All required tree preservation fees as required in Section 27.71.150;

--- page 446 ---
(d) All tree information as required in Section 27.71.150 and Chapter 13.40;  
(e) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape area for the plant establishment period; 
(f) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area, financial securities as required 
in Section 27.71.090; and 
(g) Soil tests as required in Section 27.71.110. 
 
27.71.090 REQUIREMENTS FOR USE OR ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. 
(a) Prior to use, final inspection, or the issuance of certificate of occupancy, all landscaping shall be installed in 
conformance with the approved plans. 
(b) Phased Projects. Incremental landscape installation may be permitted by the Zoning Administrator when 
building construction is phased. 
(c) Financial Security. Financial security shall be required for all projects with over 10,000 square feet of 
landscape area and for all residential condominiums. On smaller projects where adverse weather, drought 
conditions or project phasing prohibit the installation of landscaping, the Zoning Administrator may allow 
financial security to be submitted to the City in order to allow use or issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The 
security shall be in a form which is legally sufficient to ensure the preservation of trees and the installation of 
all approved landscape improvements. Financial security shall be returned to the applicant upon completion of 
the plant establishment period. The City shall be the beneficiary and the sole determinant of compliance and 
completion. A detailed cost estimate of all landscape improvements plus the value of any existing trees to 
remain, as determined in Section 27.71.150, shall be used to determine the amount of security. 
 
27.71.100 LANDSCAPE COMPATIBILITY AND SOIL TESTING. 
The location and nature of all landscaping shall be compatible with the soil, amendments, existing plantings to 
remain and character of the landscaping in the vicinity. For projects with over 10,000 square feet of landscape 
area or in areas of questionable soils such as the foothills or areas of bay fill, soils testing shall be required. 
Testing shall be performed by a professional testing laboratory. Soil shall be amended according to test report 
recommendations. 
 
27.71.110 PLANT COVERAGE AND TREE SIZES. 
(a) Allowed Bare Ground. Areas of bare ground or ground covered only by bark or rocks shall be allowed on-
site only where required as part of an approved facility, such as a baseball diamond, vegetable garden, 
flowerbed, or similar use. 
(b) Allowed Natural Landscaping. Natural landscaping shall be allowed only in areas where it is compatible with 
the surrounding environment. 
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of installation, 
except for heritage tree replacements, which require a minimum size of 24-inch box. 
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of installation, 
except for heritage tree replacements, which shall be replaced according to Chapter 13.40 and the 
Administrative Guidelines.  
(d) Plant Coverage. 
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped area. 
The ratio may include existing trees and required street and parking area trees. In some instances a 
greater ratio will be necessary to achieve desired landscaping objectives. Required tree ratio excluded 
for public parks, golf courses, cemeteries and school recreation areas. 
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped area. 
The ratio may include existing trees and required parking area trees. Public parks, golf courses, 
cemeteries, school recreation areas and public facilities are not required to meet this ratio. 
(2) Groundcover and shrub massing areas shall be planted in a manner or at the spacings 
recommended by the American Association of Nurserymen, to uniformly cover the proposed

--- page 447 ---
groundcover areas within two years and the shrub areas within five years or a period optimum for the 
species. 
(e) Security Planting. The use of plant materials that promote building security is encouraged. A list of such 
materials may be obtained from the Planning Division. Perimeter landscaped areas should incorporate thorny 
plant materials to discourage persons from cutting through parking areas, trampling vegetation near ground 
floor windows, or climbing perimeter fences and walls. 
 
27.71.120 STREET TREES. 
(a) Tree Planting. Fifteen-gallon or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with 
the City Street Tree Master Plan. Trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed 30 feet except to allow for 
utilities, street furnishings and driveways. Trees shall be planted closer than 30 feet if so recommended by the 
City Arborist.  
(a) Tree Planting.  
(1) 24-inch box size or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with the 
City Street Tree Master Plan. The City Arborist shall have the authority to recommend planting of 
fifteen (15) gallon street trees when: 
(A) Upon written request by the applicant; and  
(B) The fifteen (15) gallon size trees are the only ones available in stock, or  
(C) The quality of the fifteen (15) gallon size trees are superior to that available in 24-inch box 
size.    
(B) Trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed 30 feet except to allow for utilities, street 
furnishings, driveways, and other provisions deemed necessary by the city to ensure public safety. 
Trees shall be planted closer than 30 feet if so recommended by the City Arborist. 
(b) Tree Maintenance Easement Access Easement. Where a planning application requires a parcel or tentative 
map, a street tree maintenance an access easement shall be required if the street trees are to be located on 
private property and no such easement exists. However, it is recommended that even when a parcel or 
tentative map is not required or included, an easement be provided to allow the City to maintain the trees 
(other than irrigating) on private property the City for site access purposes in the event of an emergency or a 
hazardous situation. 
 
27.71.130 PARKING AREAS. 
The following requirements shall apply to open parking areas containing five or more parking spaces. 
(a) Setbacks. Whenever a parking area is located adjacent to any residential use or zone and along all street 
frontages, a landscape strip shall be provided that is equal in width to five percent of the parking lot depth or 
six feet, whichever is greater. 
(b) Percentage of Parking Areas to be Landscaped. At least 10% of the open parking area shall be landscaped. 
The following shall be considered in computing the landscape area: 
(1) Parking area includes all paved surfaces devoted to on-site circulation and parking; 
(2) Only those landscaped areas within six feet of a parking stall or aisle shall apply towards meeting 
the 10% requirement; 
(3) Areas to be considered shall include planting areas and required curbing. 
(c) Screening. All open parking areas shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any 
property in a residential zone and along all street frontages. Screening of adjoining property shall be a 
minimum of four feet to a maximum of six feet in height. Screening along street frontages shall be at least two 
and one-half feet in height for at least 80% of its length. Screening shall be accomplished by a wall, fence, 
earth berm, densely planted shrub mass or any combination of the above. Where walls or fences are provided, 
they shall be located adjacent to the edge of the parking lots. Screening shall conform with the sight distance 
requirements contained in Chapter 27.84 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
(d) Parking Lot Islands.

--- page 448 ---
(1) All islands and small areas unused for parking or circulation shall be landscaped. The Zoning 
Administrator may determine that certain areas for reasons of size, aesthetics or circulation should not 
be landscaped and may approve paving in those areas. 
(2) Interior landscape islands, having a minimum dimension of five feet including curb, shall be 
provided after every 10 parking spaces in a row to provide for tree planting. 
(e) Required Trees. For each three parking spaces at least one tree shall be planted within the parking lot 
landscaped area in addition to any required street trees. Existing trees may be included in the required total. 
(f) Protection of Planting Areas. All planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic. For 
parking lots containing five stalls or more, this requirement shall be met by a six-inch-high vertical concrete 
curb. For parking lots containing less than five stalls, this requirement may be met by a concrete wheel stop in 
front of each diagonal or perpendicular stall plus a minimum six-inch-high concrete curb in other areas or 
approved equal. No trees or shrubs shall be planted and sprinkler heads shall be kept below curb height within 
two feet six inches of any curb or wheel stops which front upon parking stalls or backup areas. 
 
27.71.140 RIGHT-OF-WAY LANDSCAPING. 
The unpaved right-of-way area located between the public street and private property shall be landscaped in a 
manner compatible with the required landscaping on site. Such landscaping shall be permanently maintained 
by the property owner in conformance with the approved plans and so as not to create a safety hazard. Strips 
of public right-of-way located between the curb and sidewalks may not be paved but must likewise be 
landscaped. Long narrow strips of turfgrass such as traffic medians and areas between curbs and sidewalks are 
prohibited. 
 
27.71.150 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES. 
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six inches in caliper shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a heritage tree. 
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter, measured at 54 inches from natural 
grade and Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a Protected Tree.  
(b) Required Submittals. To evaluate the existing trees the landscape plan and a tree evaluation schedule shall 
be submitted with the planning application showing: 
(1) The location of all existing trees six (6) inches or greater in caliper trunk diameter (measured at 54 
inches from natural grade), noting which are to be removed and which are located within the 
allowable building area; 
(2) Caliper size Trunk diameter in inches measured 48 inches above grade 54 inches above natural 
grade; 
(3) Species name and species value as determined by utilizing the most recent edition of the Guide for 
Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers; 
(4) Condition and location value of trees as determined by an arborist or landscape architect an ISA 
Certified Arborist; 
(5) The total LU value of trees to be removed; and 
(6) The total LU value of replacement trees. 
(c) Landscape Unit Value (LU). 
(1) The tree species, condition, and location values of the trees shall be based on an evaluation by an 
experienced landscape appraiser recognized by the American Society of Consulting Arborists utilizing 
the most recent Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers; 
and approved by the Zoning Administrator. 
(2) Trees not within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of 1.0 (100%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%). 
(3) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%). 
(4) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%).

--- page 449 ---
The species, condition and location value assume an average tree value to be .70 (.7 x .7 x .7 = .343). 
All existing trees to be removed shall be given a LU value based upon the following calculation: 
 
species value% x condition value% x location value% 
.35 
x caliper inches x bldg./setback% x heritage tree% = LU 
 
species value% x condition value% x location value% 
 
Trunk diameter inches x 
bldg. 
 
 
 
x 
 
= 
LU 
.35 
 
setback% x heritage tree% 
 
 
 
(d) Tree Replacement. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total 
removed LU value. The following rates shall be given to replacement trees to obtain the replacement LU value: 
LU Value 
Replacement Tree Size 
1 
15-gallon 
2 
24-inch box 
3 
36-inch box 
4 
48-inch box 
Replacement trees shall be in addition to and not substitute requirements for street trees, parking lot trees or 
other required trees.  The LU value for replacement street trees shall be calculated separately from non-street 
trees. 
(e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. The site design shall make every reasonable effort to preserve heritage 
trees, consistent with Section 13.52.025 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code. Conditions shall also be imposed 
to protect heritage trees during construction. Heritage trees shall be removed only when it is demonstrated 
that preservation of these trees would result in a threat to health, safety, and welfare due to a hazardous tree 
condition, impacts on soil erosion and stability, or an unreasonable effect upon the economic enjoyment of the 
property, consistent with Section 13.52.040 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code. 
(f) Protection of Existing Trees. The site design shall make reasonable effort to protect existing trees. The 
design shall be evaluated as to how it protects existing trees or the reasons for removal of existing trees. Tree 
protection measures shall be provided for trees to remain on-site, which shall be consistent with Section 
13.52.025 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code and imposed as a condition of approvals. 
(g) Alternates to On-Site Replacement. If the required LU value for replacement of existing trees to be removed 
is not made up with replacement trees on-site, the City shall require that trees be planted in another location 
on-site or off-site or a contribution of funds be made to the City to be used for plantings on public land or a 
combination of the above options. If a contribution of funds is required, it shall be the fee as established by 
resolution of the City Council in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule.

--- page 450 ---
27.78 VARIANCES 
 
27.78.010 PURPOSE. 
In order that the purpose of this Code may be carried out, the approval body designated in this Title may, upon 
receiving an application for a variance from the provisions of this Title, vary such provisions upon finding that 
owing to special conditions, enforcement of the Title would result in hardship. Any variance granted shall be 
subject to such conditions as will assure that the adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of special 
privilege. 
 
27.78.020 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING. 
(a) In order to make its determination that there is hardship, the approval body designated in this Title shall 
determine if each of the following conditions  pertain: 
(1) There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the property that 
do not apply generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood including buildings of 
architectural or historical significance or of architectural interest as recognized by action of the City 
Council or another government agency. 
(2) A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the 
applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood; 
(3) Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or 
materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is 
located; and 
(4) Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan. 
(b) Parking stall dimension variances shall also meet all of the following limitations: 
(1) Handicapped stalls required by the State Architect's Handicapped Access Regulations are not 
eligible for this process. 
(2) The application must be based on constraints imposed by physical features of the site (such as 
slopes, major vegetation to be preserved or the like) Major Vegetation to be preserved as defined in 
Chapter 23.40, or Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40), or existing structural improvements. 
No variance shall be granted for stall dimensions due to mere lack of space on the site to meet 
standard requirements for the project, nor for the sole purposes of design simplicity, reduced cost or 
other convenience of the applicant. 
(3) Variances for the width of stalls shall only be allowed for locating posts or stub walls in the very 
front or rear part of the stalls where they will not obstruct the swing of doors for passenger vehicles, 
or to allow continued use of established parking structures. 
(4) The application meets one or more of the following: 
(A) The variance is needed to continue using existing facilities; 
(B) No more than one dimension is to vary, and by not more than 1 foot width or 6 inches 
height or 2 feet length; 
(C) No more than 10% of all required stalls, or 3 stalls, whichever is greater, are to vary; 
(D) The total volume of each of the stalls will be at least 95% of the unvaried volume of height, 
width and depth combined.

--- page 451 ---
BUILDING CODE  
 
Reason for Proposed Change:  The zoning code references the Uniform Building Code (UBC) in multiple places; 
however, the last publication was in 1997 and it is no longer used. The amendment would replace references to 
the Uniform Building Code (UBC) with the California Building Code throughout the zoning code. 
 
 
 
Proposed Change: 
 
Throughout the zoning code, replace references to the “Uniform Building Code” with the “California Building 
Code”.

--- page 452 ---
Zoning Code Clean-
Up Amendments
October 26, 2021
Julia Klein
Principal Planner

--- page 453 ---
Chapter 27.04, “Definitions” 
• Curb Level – remove antiquated definition, no longer serves a 
purpose;
• Floor Area – clarify and reorganize calculation of floor area ratio 
including garages, carports, covered structures, patios and similar 
structures regardless of the number of open sides.

--- page 454 ---
Chapter 27.64, “Off-Street Parking and Loading” 
• Current code language for loading berths prohibits an applicant 
from requesting a SPAR to omit the required off-street loading 
unless it can be demonstrated that only street access to the 
building is available. 
• The prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is 
developed or proposed for development must have access to a 
street. 
• Remove the prerequisite language and add title to clarify the 
table applies to both on-street and off-street loading berths.

--- page 455 ---
Chapter 27.71, “Landscape for Planning 
Applications” and Chapter 27.78, “Variance”
• City Council adopted Chapter 13.40 Protected Trees (5/3/2021) 
which updated the city’s requirements in line with current best 
practices. 
• Changes are intended to align with Chapter 13.40 for internal 
consistency, incorporate best practices, and provide clarity for 
applicants regarding trees.

--- page 456 ---
Title 27, “Zoning Code”
• Current code references Uniform Building Code (UBC) in multiple 
places, UBC was last publication was in 1997 & no longer used.
• Change would replace references to Uniform Building Code (UBC) 
with the California Building Code throughout the zoning code.

--- page 457 ---
Next Steps
• Following the Planning Commission meeting, this item will be 
scheduled for a public hearing before the City Council for 
introduction at the next available meeting date.
• Following the City Council introduction meeting, the code 
amendments will be brought back to City Council for adoption, and 
will then go into effect 30 days after adoption.

--- page 458 ---
Action Requested of Planning Commission
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to 
amend the Zoning Code as follows: Chapter 27.04, “Definitions” 
to remove curb level and clarify floor area; Chapter 27.64, “Off-
Street Parking and Loading” to clarify on-street loading 
provisions and Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
provisions; Chapter 27.71, “Landscape for Planning 
Applications” to clarify tree provisions; Chapter 27.78, 
“Variance” to clarify tree provisions; and Title 27, “Zoning Code” 
to update all references to the California Building Code.

--- page 459 ---
Thank You

Julia Klein
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org

CITY OF

