source: packet.pdf
sha256: ffcc5e6ee75ae7ea6a971971155e0c4882e0cb4d7d9fd53f85d4a5519e94c059
pages: 517
ocr_pages: 36
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
February 20, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: February 20, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 886 8251 7475      Passcode: 914996
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Black History Month – Proclamation
2.
Boys & Girls Clubs of the Peninsula - Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
Animal Control Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 8.02 "Animal Control" to provide clarity in
definitions and streamline processes.
CEQA: This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
4.
Juneteenth Annual Holiday Designation for City Employees – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to designate Juneteenth as an annual holiday for City Employees.
1 of 517

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5.
Marina Library Structural Improvements Project – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 with Siegel & Strain Architects for design professional services for the Marina Library
Structural Improvements Project in an amount not to exceed $265,434 for a new total agreement amount of
$362,114; establish a contingency reserve of $36,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
amendment in substantially the form presented and any future amendments within the contingency amount.
CEQA: Approval of Amendment No. 2 is not a project subject to CEQA, because work associated with the Marina
Library Structural Improvements Project is categorically exempt as an “existing facility,” in that it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Citywide On-Call Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Repair Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 with Bayside Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc. DBA CP Mechanical for Citywide On-Call
Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Repair Services increasing the Agreement amount by $70,000, for a
revised total not to exceed amount of $169,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This Amendment is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
7.
2nd & El Camino Garage Improvements – Professional Services Agreement
Approve an agreement to ZFA Structural Engineers for professional engineering services in the amount of
$139,287.50; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $21,000; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency
amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
8.
2nd and El Camino Garage and Central Garage Elevator Modernization - Budget Appropriation and Construction
Contract
Adopt a Resolution authorizing a budget appropriation from the Downtown Parking Improvements Project to the
Elevator Modernization Project in an amount of $645,000; approve a construction contract with On Point
Construction for construction to improve the elevator controls at the 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage and
Central Parking Garage in the amount of $830,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $166,000;
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue
change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
2 of 517

--- page 3 ---
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
9.
Usage of San Mateo County Sheriff's Office Coyote Point Police Training Center and Firing Range Facilities –
Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for use of the Coyote Point training center and firing range
facilities through June 30, 2025 in an amount not to exceed $20,000; and authorize the Chief of Police or his
designee to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
10.
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Supportive Housing Loan – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve a loan to the St. James Community Development Corporation for predevelopment
and development costs for a new supportive housing project in the amount of $377,212 and authorize the City
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Awarding this loan and executing the associated agreement will not constitute a planning entitlement or a
building permit approval for the construction of the project. This agreement is only to award the applicant the
necessary funds to ensure the project’s fiscal feasibility. This agreement award is not a project subject to CEQA,
because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes
in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)). Environmental review for the demolition and
reconstruction of the site will occur at a later time.
11.
San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force – Agreement
Approve the Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force for
the assignment of one police officer through June 30, 2025, and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the no-
cost agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
12.
Network Hardware Replacement – Purchase
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Purchasing Agreement
with CDW Government, LLC (CDW-G) for the purchase of network switches in the amount of $328,484.49; and
authorize the Director of Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no
possibility the purchase of network equipment may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
3 of 517

--- page 4 ---
the decision is made.
 
13.
Appeal of a Planning Commission Approval of a New Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 477 9th Avenue (PA-2022-
047)
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission's decision to approve the Special
Use Permit (SUP), Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
for a new five-story mixed-use building with office uses and 120 residential units at 477 9th Avenue, based on the
Findings and subject to the Conditions of Approval, and find that the project is Categorically Exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Section 15332 (In-Fill Development Projects).
CEQA:In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the project meets the criteria to be
Categorically Exempt from further environmental review pursuant to Section 15332 (Class 32 - In-Fill Development
Projects).
NEW BUSINESS
14.
2023-24 Mid-Year Budget Update
Receive the 2023-24 Mid-Year Budget Update.
CEQA: This mid-year budget update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
OLD BUSINESS
15.
Wet Weather Preparations – Update
Receive an update on the City’s wet weather preparations and storm response activities.
CEQA: This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
4 of 517

--- page 5 ---
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 517

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 24-8463
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Animal Control Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 8.02 "Animal Control" to provide clarity in definitions 
and streamline processes. 
BACKGROUND:
On February 5, 2024, the City Council introduced the attached proposed ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 8.02 "Animal Control." The City of San Mateo has authorized personnel from the County of San 
Mateo to administer and enforce Chapter 8.02 on behalf of the City.  The San Mateo County Board of Supervisors recently 
adopted an ordinance to amend the San Mateo County Code related to Animal Control.  The City of San Mateo wishes to 
continue to partner with the County to provide animal control services and wishes to maintain an animal control ordinance 
which is substantially the same as the County’s ordinance.  The proposed amendments to Chapter 8.02 will provide clarity 
in definitions, streamline processes, improve enforceability, and above all else, provide enhanced public safety.  If 
adopted, this ordinance will become effective 30 days after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this ordinance adoption.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
6 of 517

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 8.02 “Animal Control” of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS,  the City of San Mateo has authorized personnel from the County of San Mateo to administer 
and enforce Municipal Code Chapter 8.02 “Animal Control” on behalf of the City; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors recently adopted an ordinance to amend the San 
Mateo County Code related to Animal Control; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to continue to partner with the County to provide animal 
control services and wishes to maintain an animal control ordinance which is substantially the same as the 
County’s ordinance; and 
WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to Chapter 8.02 will provide clarity in definitions, streamline 
processes, improve enforceability, and above all else, provide enhanced public safety.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 8.02.002 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.002 ADOPTION OF SAN MATEO COUNTY'S "ANIMAL CONTROL" ORDINANCE.
Sections 6.04.010 through 6.04.370 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code (Animal Control 
Ordinance), as they were in existence or adopted by the County as of January 9, 2024, are referred to, adopted 
and made applicable within the City and made a part of this Code, except as specifically otherwise provided in 
this chapter. Amendments thereto shall be adopted by the City in accordance with procedures for adoption of 
amendments to ordinances.
Section 2. Section 8.02.004 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.004 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS—APPOINTMENT OF—ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
The Animal Control Officers of the Peninsula Humane Society, a private nonprofit corporation with 
whom the County contracts for enforcement of its "Animal Control" ordinance, are appointed Animal Control 
Officers of the City and are authorized and directed to enforce in the City:
(a) The provisions of this chapter adopted under Section 8.02.002 hereof.
(b) The other provisions of this title.
Section 3. Section 8.02.006 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7 of 517

--- page 8 ---
8.02.006 VIOLATIONS.
It is unlawful to commit any act declared by any provision of this chapter to be unlawful, to violate this 
chapter, or to fail to comply with the mandatory requirements of this chapter.
Section 4. Section 8.02.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.010 DEFINITIONS (County Code § 6.04.010).
(a) "Animal Control Officer" means any Person designated as the Animal Control Program Manager for 
the County, as well as the head of the County’s animal control contractor and their duly authorized officers or 
deputies. In the event the County has no animal control contractor to provide Animal Control Officers, or in 
cases of emergency in which additional animal control officers are needed, “Animal Control Officer(s)” may 
include Persons so designated by the Animal Control Program Manager. 
(b) "Animal Control Program" means that program established by the County and participating cities, 
and the Program’s animal control contractor(s), if any, which contractor is specifically charged with regulating 
and enforcing laws dealing with animal control within the participating jurisdictions. Animal Control Program 
includes the Licensing Program. 
(c) “Animal Control Program Manager” means that Person employed by the County to oversee the 
Animal Control Program or designee.
(d) "Animal Control Shelter" means a County facility operated by the County, or by another public entity, 
an accredited, tax-exempt humane non-profit organization contracted with the County, or a for-profit business 
contracted with the County for the purpose of impounding, sheltering, adopting, or euthanizing seized, stray, 
distressed, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals.
(e) “Caretaker” means any Person 18 years of age or older, who has assumed responsibility for the care, 
custody, or control of an animal(s). 
(f) “County” means the County of San Mateo.
(g) “Dangerous Animal” means any animal, except a trained animal assisting a peace officer engaged in 
law enforcement duties, that constitutes a danger to Persons or animals, and/or demonstrates any of the 
following behavior(s):
(1) Behavior that results in bodily harm that is less serious than a “Severe Injury,” or constitutes 
a substantial threat of bodily harm to a Person; or
(2) An attack on another animal which results in an injury that is sufficient to require veterinary 
care even if not received. 
An animal which has been declared by an out of this County jurisdiction as “potentially dangerous,” 
“dangerous,” “vicious,” or any other similar designation, may be deemed a Dangerous or Vicious Animal 
for the purposes of this Chapter, as determined by an Animal Control Officer.
8 of 517

--- page 9 ---
(h) “Health Officer” means that Person so designated by the County.
(i) “Humane Officer” means any Person who is qualified to and appointed pursuant to California 
Corporations Code Section 14502, and who is an employee of the County and designated as such by the County 
or an employee of a society for prevention of cruelty to animals or humane society that has contracted with the 
County to provide animal control services.
(j) "Licensing Program" means that program within the County Health Department, including by not 
limited to, any County contractor specifically charged with regulating and selling animal licenses in the County.
(k) "Owner" means any Person 18 years of age or over who:
(1) holds the license to the animal; or
(2) if the animal is not licensed, is legally entitled to possession of the animal; or 
(3) has exercised primary responsibility for the care of the animal for thirty (30) or more 
consecutive calendar days.
(l) “Person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, organization, trade or professional 
association, firm, limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, and 
any officer, member, shareholder, director, employee, agent, or representative thereof.
(m) “Severe Injury” means any physical injury to a human caused by an animal attack that involves tooth 
derived muscle tears, disfiguring wounds or laceration(s), multiple bites requiring sutures, broken bones and/or 
requires corrective surgery.
(n) “Service Animal” means any animal defined as such by federal or state law.
(o) "Vicious Animal" means any animal, except a trained animal assisting a peace officer engaged in law 
enforcement duties, which meets any or all of the following criteria:
(1) Any animal, at the time of the attack, is already designated as a Dangerous Animal and/or is 
the subject of a Dangerous Animal permit, and which is found to have engaged in any of the following: 
(A) Behavior that results in bodily harm, or constitutes a substantial threat of bodily 
harm, to a Person; or
(B) An attack on another animal which results in an injury that is sufficient to require 
veterinary care, whether or not received.
(2) Any animal that inflicts Severe Injury to or kills a Person. 
(3) Any animal which cannot be safely maintained with a Dangerous Animal permit. .
9 of 517

--- page 10 ---
(4) Any animal designated by another governmental jurisdiction as, “dangerous”, "vicious", or 
any other similar designation, if that prior designation is based on behavior which would meet the 
definition of a Vicious Animal under this Chapter, as determined by an Animal Control Officer.
Section 5. Section 8.02.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.020 ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM (County Code § 6.04.020).
(a) RESPONSIBILITY. The Animal Control Program is responsible for the enforcement of this ordinance, 
and the duties of the Animal Control Program shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) Provide animal control, sheltering services, and a rabies control program to carry out and 
enforce all provisions of this Chapter and California Health & Safety Code section 121690, and keep such 
records as may be required by law or contract.
(2) Enforce the provisions of this Chapter and all applicable state and local laws relating to the 
care, treatment, and impounding of animals, and specifically to issue citations and to make arrests for 
violations of the provisions of this Chapter and related state laws, to the extent authorized by law.
(3) Impound animals found to be in violation of this Chapter in the interest of protecting public 
health and safety.
(4) Investigate animals pursuant to this Chapter or applicable state law and, if deemed 
appropriate, designate any such animals as Dangerous or Vicious pursuant to this Chapter.
(5) Impound animals which are in imminent or ongoing danger, or which are in need of 
safekeeping in order to protect the health and safety of the animal.
(6) Impound animals that are causing a threat to public safety.
(7) Where authorized under the law, to enter upon any premises upon which any animal is kept 
in order to seize or impound of any animal if reasonable cause exists to believe that such animal is being 
kept or has behaved in violation of the provisions of this Chapter.
(8) To remove and dispose of the carcass of any animal(s) found on any public right of way, 
except freeways or other areas maintained by Caltrans.
(9) Quarantine animals under the direction of the County Health Officer to ensure public health 
and safety.
(10) Euthanize and/or dispose of animal(s) humanely and in accordance with the law.
(11) Place for adoption, when appropriate, properly impounded animals if such animals are not 
redeemed after due notice to known Owners in accordance with the law.
(12) Provide and hold vaccination clinics in strategic locations throughout the County pursuant 
to Health and Safety Code 121690.
10 of 517

--- page 11 ---
(13) Provide or make available at low cost, spay/neuter surgeries to dogs, cats, and rabbits.
(14) Provide for issuance of an animal license for a period not to exceed the term of the anti-
rabies vaccination, as provided by state law.
(15) To collect any fees or charges provided for in this Chapter for the licensing, impounding 
and/or keeping of any animal, or for the enforcement of this Chapter.
(b) Animal Control Officers qualified under Penal Code section 830.9, who are either employees of the 
County designated as such by the County, or employee(s) of and designated as such by a society for prevention 
of cruelty to animals or humane society which has contracted with the County to provide animal control 
services, shall have the authority to issue citations and/or notices to appear in court, and obtain and execute 
search warrants to the maximum extent allowed by law, for violations of state and local animal control laws. 
Animal Control Officers shall have the authority provided by state law including, but not limited to, that 
described by Penal Code section 830.9. Animal Control Officers must complete Penal Code section 832 training.
(c) Those employees of a society for prevention of cruelty to animals or humane society under contract 
with the County to provide animal control services, who have been appointed and qualify as Humane Officers 
under California Corporations Code section 14502, or its successor statute, shall have the authority to issue 
citations and/or notices to appear in court, and obtain and execute search warrants, to the maximum extent 
allowed by law, for violations of state and local animal control laws.
(d) The County may contract for animal control services to be performed countywide, including within 
cities, provided agreement is made with the participating jurisdictions.
Section 6. Section 8.02.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.030 RABIES VACCINATIONS (County Code § 6.04.030).
(a) Every dog or cat owner shall ensure their animal is vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian in 
the manner prescribed or approved by state law and the State of California Department of Public Health, after 
the dog or cat attains the age of three (3) months of age and/or within ten (10) calendar days of acquiring an 
unvaccinated animal. This vaccination shall be obtained prior to issuing a license for the dog or cat. In addition, 
proof of vaccination shall be provided by the Owner or veterinarian to the Licensing Program or the County’s 
animal control contractor.
(b) Every veterinarian who vaccinates or causes or directs to be vaccinated in the County any dog, or cat 
with rabies vaccine shall certify that such animal has been vaccinated. Every veterinarian shall submit to the 
licensing authority a copy of the County-approved rabies vaccination form, within ten (10) calendar days of the 
beginning of each month, for any dog or cat which they vaccinate or direct to be vaccinated with anti-rabies 
during the previous month. An Animal Control Officer or animal licensing staff shall have the right to inspect 
records of rabies vaccinations during normal business hours.
(c) Upon receipt of a written request from a licensed veterinarian to exempt a microchipped pet from 
receiving a one or three-year vaccination, for medical reasons, the County Health Officer and/or designee shall 
review the basis for the request for exemption and approve or/deny said request.
11 of 517

--- page 12 ---
Section 7. Section 8.02.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.040 DOG AND CAT LICENSES (County Code § 6.04.040).
(a) Licensing requirements for dogs and cats shall be as follows: 
(1) An annual license shall be obtained, and an annual license fee shall be paid by the Owner for 
every dog or cat over the age of three (3) months owned or kept in the City. Said annual license fee shall 
be first due when the animal reaches three (3) months of age or within 60 calendar days after the dog or 
cat is acquired, and due on the expiration date of the rabies vaccination and each year thereafter. 
(2) New residents shall have sixty (60) calendar days in which to acquire such license. 
(3) Persons renewing their license shall have thirty (30) days following their due date before 
being found delinquent and assessed a late penalty. 
(4) The fee for such license shall be as set forth in Section 8.02.350. The fee paid for the licensing 
of altered dogs or cats shall be less than said license fee for unaltered dogs or cats upon presentation of 
the proper certification. The license fee paid by Persons over the age of 60 shall be at a discount. 
(5) An Owner may obtain a three-year license for a cat or dog by submitting to the Licensing 
Program adequate proof of a three-year rabies vaccination of the animal to be licensed and payment of 
the applicable fees, as set forth in section 8.02.350.
(6) Any Person who fails to pay such license fee after said fee is due or said dog or cat is required 
to be licensed, in addition to paying any past due license fee(s), may also be required to pay a late fee in 
accordance with Section 8.02.350 or may receive an administrative citation.
(7) A license shall be obtained, but no license fee shall be payable, by the Owner of any dog 
being raised, trained or used as a Service Animal, or for dogs that have served as a member of the 
armed forces of the United States of America, or any dog used by a local law enforcement agency for 
the purposes of law enforcement.
(8) Animals with microchip implants or other permanent identification acceptable to the Animal 
Control Program are not exempt from the mandatory licensing requirements.
(b) The licensing provisions in this ordinance are not applicable to the following:
(1) Dogs or cats used for diagnostic purposes or research, the use having been approved by the 
California State Department of Health Services pursuant to Section 1666 of the Health and Safety Code.
(2) Dogs or cats used for teaching purposes in recognized educational institutions.
(3) Dogs or cats owned by veterinarians which are licensed by the State and kept on the 
premises used by said veterinarians in their practice.
(c) Tags for dogs and cats shall be issued as follows:
12 of 517

--- page 13 ---
(1) The Licensing Program shall procure and, when licensing fee is paid, issue a lifetime tag 
which shall bear the number of the license. A record shall be kept with the name of the Owner together 
with a description of the dog or cat for which the license is issued and the number of the license, and a 
tag shall be provided to such Person upon payment for such license as provided by this Chapter.
(2) Whenever a tag has been lost or stolen, the Owner of the animal may request a duplicate tag 
upon payment of the required fee.
(3) The Owner of a licensed dog or cat shall affix such tag to a suitable collar, which collar shall 
remain on the dog or cat at all times.
(4) When an animal has been designated as a Service Animal, the Owner may obtain a lifetime 
service tag and shall be required to follow the requirements in Section 8.02.030 (a). Said tag will replace 
a regular dog license.
(5) The Owner or operator of any kennel, animal breeding facility, pet shop, or any place or 
establishment where animals are sold, adopted, or given away shall keep a permanent record of the 
name, address, and phone number of the purchaser of any dog or cat, along with the breed, color, sex, 
and age of each animal sold, adopted, or given away and shall forward such information to Animal 
Control services within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter. An Animal Control Officer, County 
representative, or employee of the County’s animal control contractor shall have the right to inspect 
such records during normal business hours, with forty-eight (48) hours prior notice to the Owner or 
operator.
Section 8. Section 8.02.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 9. Section 8.02.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 8.02 as follows:
8.02.050 PUBLIC PROTECTION FROM DOGS (County Code § 6.04.050).
(a) No Owner or possessor of a dog shall cause or allow such dog to bite, or physically threaten or harass 
any Person unless necessary to protect the physical safety of a Person.
(b) Every Owner or possessor of a dog shall prevent such dog from causing injury to another animal 
while such animal is lawfully upon public or private property. The failure of the Owner of a victim animal to have 
the animal on a leash shall not, in itself, constitute a mitigating factor in any attack.
(c)  No Owner or possessor of a dog shall command or provoke such dog to attack, sic or threaten a 
Person unless such action is necessary to protect the physical safety of a Person.
(d)  No Owner or possessor of a dog that resides in another county and is found to have violated this 
section shall thereafter allow such dog to be brought into the County unless the dog is fully enclosed in a vehicle 
and passing through to another location without stopping at any public or private premises within the County.
Section 10. Section 8.02.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
13 of 517

--- page 14 ---
8.02.060 PROHIBITED CONDUCT (County Code § 6.04.060).
No Owner or other Person having care, custody or control of any animal shall cause or permit it to do 
any of the following:
(a) To be upon any public street, sidewalk, park, school ground, any public property, or upon any 
unenclosed premises in this jurisdiction unless:
(1) the animal is properly licensed, if such licensing is necessary hereunder, and
(2) the animal is controlled by a chain, lead rope, or leash, which is connected to the animal’s 
collar, saddle, harness, or halter. This latter requirement is not applicable to cats, or to Service Animals 
under the complete control of the Owner or Caretaker.
An electric or invisible fence does not constitute an enclosure for the purpose of this requirement.
(b) To trespass upon any private property without the consent of the Owner thereof, and to knowingly 
permit the animal to remain upon the property, or to habitually continue to trespass thereon.
(c) To suffer or permit such animal to habitually bark or meow or otherwise act to disturb the peace of 
any citizen or to be a public nuisance.
(d) To be without proper and adequate food, water, shelter, care, and attention.
(e)  No Person shall possess within the County any animal designated by another jurisdiction as 
“potentially dangerous”, “dangerous”, or “vicious,” or other designation based on the animal’s potential danger 
to humans and/or animals, without previously notifying Animal Control and receiving express written permission 
from the Animal Control Program Manager for the animal’s presence or residence in the County. A failure to 
receive prior permission is in itself a sufficient basis for an Animal Control Officer or peace officer to seize and 
impound such animal.
(f) Subsection (a)(2) of this section shall not be applicable to cats.
Section 11. Section 8.02.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.070 PROTECTION OF ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES (County Code § 6.04.070).
(a) No Person shall leave or confine an animal in any unattended motor vehicle under conditions that 
endanger the health or well-being of said animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, lack of water, or 
other circumstances that could reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability, or death of said animal.
(b) An Animal Control Officer, Humane Officer or peace officer may remove an animal from a motor 
vehicle if the animal’s safety reasonably appears to be in immediate danger from heat, cold, lack of adequate 
ventilation, lack of water, or other circumstances that could reasonably be expected to cause suffering, 
disability, or death to the animal. An Animal Control Officer, Humane Officer or peace officer is authorized to 
take all steps that are necessary for the removal of such animal from the motor vehicle, including, but not 
14 of 517

--- page 15 ---
limited to, breaking into the motor vehicle, after a reasonable effort has been made to locate the Owner or 
other Person responsible. 
(c) If an animal is removed from a motor vehicle as set forth herein, the removing officer shall, if 
deemed necessary by the officer, take it to an animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or other place of safekeeping. 
(d) An Animal Control Officer or peace officer who removes an animal from a motor vehicle shall, in a 
conspicuous location on or within the motor vehicle, leave written notice bearing their name and office, and the 
address of the location where the animal can be claimed. The animal may be released to the Owner only after 
payment of all fees that have accrued for the maintenance, care, medical treatment, or impoundment of the 
animal
(e) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under both this section and California Penal Code 
Section 597 or any other provision of state or local law.
Section 12. Section 8.02.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.080 RELEASE FROM CONFINEMENT (County Code § 6.04.080).
No Person other than the Owner, or Person authorized by the Owner of the animal shall release any 
animal from any confinement, vehicle, or restraint unless such release is necessary for the immediate health and 
safety of the animal. This section shall not apply to Animal Control Officers, Humane Officers, and/or peace 
officers.
Section 13. Section 8.02.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.090 DECLARATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL (County Code § 6.04.090).
(a) No Person shall knowingly keep, have, maintain, sell, trade, or let for hire an animal designated as 
Dangerous under this Chapter without obtaining a Dangerous Animal permit from the Animal Control Officer. 
The animal Owner shall comply with all conditions of the Dangerous Animal permit including, but not limited to, 
all requirements of section 8.02.100. Any animal which is determined to be Dangerous under this Chapter and 
for which a permit has not been obtained shall be surrendered to an Animal Control Officer, peace officer, or a 
County animal control contractor agency for appropriate disposition, which may include humane euthanasia. 
(b) In determining whether or not an animal shall be designated as Dangerous, the Animal Control 
Officer, peace officer, or hearing officer may consider any relevant facts and circumstances, including but not 
limited to: 
(1) the alleged attacking animal’s prior history. 
(2) the alleged attacking animal’s Owner(s) ability to comply with this Chapter, and/or 
compliance with any prior Dangerous Animal permits held by the alleged attacking animal’s Owner(s). 
(3) whether any of the animals involved were previously deemed by a governmental jurisdiction 
as “potentially dangerous, “dangerous”, “vicious” or any other similar designation. 
15 of 517

--- page 16 ---
(c) In determining whether or not an animal shall be designated as Dangerous, the Animal Control 
Officer, peace officer, or hearing officer, may consider the following mitigating factors: 
(1) Whether at the time of the injury, attack or molestation, the Person or animal suffering the 
injury, attack or molestation: 
(A) provoked, tormented, teased, abused or assaulted the animal, thereby causing or 
contributing to the alleged behavior; 
(B) committed a willful trespass or other tort upon the private property of the Owner or 
Caretaker of the animal in the presence of the animal; 
(C) threatened or committed an unjustified attack or assault against the Owner, 
Caretaker or other Person in control of the animal in the presence of the animal.
(2) Any other mitigating factor relevant to whether the animal poses a threat to public health or 
safety. The failure of the Owner or Person in control of a victim animal to have the victim animal on a 
leash shall not, in itself, constitute a mitigating factor in any attack.
(d) The unwillingess of a victim or a particular witness to testify at a hearing shall not prevent 
designation of an animal as a Dangerous Animal, as long as sufficient evidence exists to support the designation. 
(e) In the event that an Animal Control Officer or peace officer determines it necessary to protect the 
health or safety of the public, or of any animal, they may immediately impound any animal according to the 
procedures set forth in this Chapter.
(f) If an Animal Control Officer or peace officer has investigated and determined that an animal is 
Dangerous, the Animal Control Officer or peace officer shall deliver written notice of such determination to the 
Owner of the animal pursuant to section 8.02.260.
(g) Should the Owner of the animal wish to contest the Dangerous Animal designation, the Owner may 
request a hearing, which hearing shall be conducted according to the procedures set forth in section 8.02.150 of 
this Chapter. The Owner shall submit a written request for a Dangerous Animal hearing to the Animal Control 
Officer within seven (7) calendar days of the written notification by the Animal Control Officer and/or peace 
officer that the animal has been declared Dangerous.
(1) Should the animal Owner not submit a request for an administrative hearing within the 
required timeframe, the administrative hearing process shall be deemed waived, the Dangerous Animal 
designation will be final, and the animal Owner shall obtain a Dangerous Animal permit within seven (7) 
calendar days of the written notification that the animal has been declared Dangerous.
(2) If the animal Owner requested a hearing and the hearing officer confirms the determination 
that the animal is Dangerous, the Owner must obtain the Dangerous Animal permit and meet the 
conditions required by such permit, within seven (7) calendar days of notice of such decision, unless the 
time is extended by an Animal Control Officer.
16 of 517

--- page 17 ---
(3) If an animal is designated as Dangerous, but the Owner fails to obtain a Dangerous Animal 
permit within the required timeframe, the animal will be deemed abandoned, and will be subject to 
disposition as deemed appropriate, including potential euthanasia by the County’s animal control 
contractor, at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, peace officer or City or County 
representative. If not already impounded, the animal will be promptly impounded. The Owner of the 
animal shall be responsible for all costs of impoundment of the animal incurred prior to such 
abandonment.
(h) If after investigation by an Animal Control Officer or peace officer, that officer determines that the 
animal is not Dangerous, the victim or an Owner of a victim animal may appeal that determination, within seven 
(7) calendar days of notice of the decision given pursuant to section 8.02.260, by submitting to the Animal 
Control Officer or peace officer a written request for a hearing and paying the required fee. The Animal Control 
Officer or peace officer shall prepare a written report documenting its reasons for determining the animal not 
Dangerous and shall include evidence it has considered for and against the designation in its report. The hearing 
shall be conducted according to the procedures set forth in section 8.02.150 of this Chapter.
(i) No animal designated by the County as a Dangerous Animal may be transferred to a new place of 
residence or to a new Owner or Caretaker without prior written approval of the Animal Control Program 
Manager. Prior to the relocation, a written request for the relocation must be delivered to the Animal Control 
Program Manager and the County’s animal control contractor, if any, at least 30 calendar days prior to the 
relocation.
(j) If an Animal Control Officer declares an animal as Dangerous which has already been declared 
Potentially Dangerous or Dangerous by another jurisdiction located outside of the County, the Owner of such 
animal must obtain and comply with a Dangerous Animal permit at least seven (7) calendar days prior to moving 
the animal into the County. The animal shall not reside in the County until the Dangerous Animal permit has 
been issued by the Animal Control Program and the Owner meets the conditions of said permit.
(k) A permit issued under this section is subject to renewal annually. An annual inspection of the 
location where the animal resides will be performed by an Animal Control Officer. Inspections may occur at any 
reasonable hour and will occur at least annually. The fee for such permit and inspection shall be as set forth in 
section 8.02.350 of this Chapter. Fees shall not be refundable. If the registered Owner fails to pay the permit fee 
and/or comply with the requirements of the permit within ten (10) calendar days of the annual inspection date, 
the permit may be revoked and the animal may be impounded for appropriate disposition, as determined by an 
Animal Control Officer, peace officer, County contracted agency or City designee, including humane euthanasia.
(l) A Dangerous Animal designation is a designation that remains with that animal for its lifetime, unless 
terminated as provided by this subsection. A Dangerous Animal designation may be terminated if all of the 
following criteria have been met, as determined by an Animal Control Officer or peace officer and the Animal 
Control Program Manager and/or City designee:
(1) The Owner has complied with all Dangerous Animal Permit requirements for a period of 
three (3) years and the animal has not been found to have committed any violations of the 
requirements of the permit, or of this Chapter, or any other applicable animal control laws, for the 
duration of that period.
17 of 517

--- page 18 ---
(2) The animal has remained current on all rabies or similar required vaccinations and has 
remained current on its licensing and paid all fees for the duration of the three (3) year period.
If an animal Owner disputes a finding that the Dangerous Animal designation will not be terminated, the 
animal Owner may request an administrative hearing to be held according to the procedures set forth in 
section 8.02.150 of this Chapter.
Section 14. Section 8.02.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.100 DANGEROUS ANIMAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS (County Code § 6.04.100).
(a) Any Owner of a Dangerous Animal shall ensure compliance with the following rules and regulations 
which shall be mandatory requirements for any Dangerous Animal permit: 
(1) When the animal is off the property of its Owner, ensure that the animal is not kept upon 
any unenclosed premise unless said animal is leashed and muzzled with a cage or basket muzzle, or any 
other muzzle approved by the Animal Control Officer. The leash shall not exceed four (4) feet in length 
and having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and shall be under the direct control and 
supervision of the Owner or a Person of such age, size, and strength as can easily control such animal. 
Extraordinary care shall be taken by the Owner and/or Caretaker to ensure that such restraint is 
sufficient to control the animal in a manner which it will not endanger other Persons or animals.
(2) Ensure said animal is never kept on any unenclosed premises even if tethered, tied or staked.
(3) Ensure said animal is kept in a fenced yard, kennel, dog run or other enclosure, sufficient to 
prevent the escape of the animal or entry of young children, as approved by the Animal Control Officer 
or peace officer. An electric or invisible fence is not an acceptable means of enclosure for the purpose of 
this requirement.
(4) Maintain the animal so that it is not a threat to any mail carrier, sanitation worker, meter 
Person, or other Person who has the lawful right to enter the property.
(5) Ensure that all structures used to confine the animals are locked with a key or combination 
lock when such animals are within the fenced yard, kennel, run or enclosure.
(6) Regularly inspect the fenced yard, kennel, dog run or enclosure to ensure that it is secure to 
maintain the animal and keep young children out.
(7) Allow inspections by any Animal Control Officer or peace officer at any reasonable hour of 
the premises or premises upon which the animal is maintained.
(8) Pay permit and property inspection fees as set forth in section 8.02.350 within (10) ten 
calendar days of the permit issuance or renewal.
(9) Obtain and post approved sign(s) from the Animal Control Program after payment of a non-
refundable fee as set forth in Section 8.02.350 of this Chapter. Sign(s) shall be conspicuously posted in a 
18 of 517

--- page 19 ---
manner visible to the public at all entrances to the property where the animal is kept, warning Persons 
of the presence of a Dangerous Animal as directed by the Animal Control Officer or peace officer. Such 
sign(s) must be surrendered in the event of the revocation of the permit, death of animal, or approved 
relocation of the animal.
(10) Advise all members who reside in the same household and on the same premises of the 
conditions established by the permit for keeping or maintaining said Dangerous Animal.
(11) Ensure said animal wears, at all times, a separate Dangerous Animal tag issued by the 
Animal Control Program in addition to complying with license requirements as defined in Section 
8.02.040.
(12) Ensure said animal be microchipped and inform the Animal Control Officer with the 
microchip number within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the Dangerous Animal permit was 
issued.
(13) Within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date the Dangerous Animal permit was issued, 
unless this period is extended by the Animal Control Program Manager or City representative at their 
sole discretion, said animal shall be spayed or neutered by a California licensed veterinarian, at Owner 
expense, and within those forty-five (45) days, the Owner shall also present written proof to the Animal 
Control Officer that the surgery was performed. In the event an animal cannot be safely altered, due to 
a medical reason, the Owner shall present the Animal Control Program Manager and Animal Control 
Officer with a written request from a California licensed veterinarian stating the medical reason(s) that 
the animal should not be altered. The County Health Officer or designee will approve or deny the 
request. If said request is denied, the animal shall be altered by a California licensed Veterinarian within 
fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of notification that the request was not approved, and within 
those fifteen (15) calendars days provide such written proof to the Animal Control Officer that the 
surgery was performed.
(14) Notify an Animal Control Officer and the Animal Control Program Manager of the animal's 
death within twenty-four (24) hours and produce the animal's body for verification upon request.
(15) Notify an Animal Control Officer and the Animal Control Program Manager immediately in 
the event the animal becomes lost, stolen, or escapes from its fenced yard, kennel run, or enclosure.
(16) Pay all reoccurring of additional fees within ten (10) calendar days of service of the invoice 
or annual permit. Non-payment of fee may result in the permit being revoked unless a payment plan has 
been approved by the County or City.
(17) Comply with all other permit conditions or requirements imposed by an Animal Control 
Officer, peace officer, or hearing officer pursuant to this Chapter.
(18) Comply with all local and state laws regarding the care, use, control, and maintenance of 
animals.
19 of 517

--- page 20 ---
(b) Any Owner of a Dangerous Animal shall ensure compliance with the following additional 
requirements, if directed to do so by an Animal Control Officer, peace officer and/or hearing officer:
(1) Prove financial responsibility by posting a bond or certificate of insurance for an amount of 
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) per animal within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of 
the Dangerous designation. Bond or certificate of insurance will be provided to the Animal Control 
Program Manager annually prior to expiration of said bond or certificate.
(2) Provide private behavioral and obedience training to the animal, at the Owner’s expense and 
within the time set forth by the hearing officer or an Animal Control Officer following the issuance of a 
Dangerous Animal permit. Proof of participation, a report of behavioral assessment, and/or a certificate 
of satisfactory completion from an animal behaviorist or organization approved by an Animal Control 
Officer shall be provided to the Animal Control Officer and Animal Control Program Manager within 
seven (7) calendar days following the completion of the mandatory training, but not more than ninety 
(90) calendar days from the date of the Dangerous designation.
(3) Comply with any other permit requirements determined to be reasonably necessary to 
protect the public’s health or safety and/or the health or safety of other animals.
(c) No more than two Dangerous Animals may be kept by any Person(s) at any one household, 
residence, business, or other location, without prior written approval of the designee of the appropriate 
jurisdiction.
Section 15. Section 8.02.105 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 16. Section 8.02.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.110 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL PERMIT (County Code § 6.04.110).
(a) Any Dangerous Animal permit issued pursuant to this Chapter may be revoked or modified by the 
inclusion of additional requirements or otherwise, if the Animal Control Officer or peace officer has reasonable 
cause to believe any of the following to be true:
(1) The Dangerous Animal Owner or any Person to whom the Owner has given care, custody, or 
control of the animal has violated any local or state laws relating to the keeping, care or use of any 
animals.
(2) The Owner or any Person to whom the Owner has given care, custody, or control of the 
animal has violated any Dangerous Animal permit conditions, or any requirement imposed by the 
Animal Control Officer, peace officer, or hearing officer.
(3) The Owner or any Person to whom the Owner has given care, custody, or control changed 
the location of his/her residence or his/her place of business or sells, assigns, transfers, donates, leases, 
or otherwise disposes of the animal for which the permit was issued without first notifying an Animal 
Control Officer as outlined in Section 8.02.090.
20 of 517

--- page 21 ---
(4) The Owner or any Person to whom the Owner has given care, custody or control of the 
animal has changed the residence or premises where the animal is maintained without first complying 
with the guidelines set forth in Section 8.02.090.
(5) The Owner or any Person to whom the Owner has given care, custody, or control of the 
animal is unable or unwilling to comply with the conditions of the Dangerous Animal permit.
(b) In the event that it is reasonably necessary to protect the public or an animal’s health and safety, the 
Animal Control Officer or peace officer may impound or cause to be impounded the animal while an 
investigation is taking place.
(c) If, after investigation, the Animal Control Officer or peace officer concludes that there is probable 
cause to believe that one or more of the above conditions for revocation or modification of the permit has 
occurred, the officer shall deliver written notice of revocation or modification to the Owner. Said notice shall 
specify the grounds of revocation or modification of the permit. Should the Owner of the animal wish to contest 
the revocation or modification of the permit, the Owner may request an administrative hearing to be held 
before a hearing officer, as designated by the Animal Control Program Manager, within seven (7) calendar days 
of receiving the notice of revocation. Said administrative hearing date shall be not less than seven (7) calendar 
days or no more than (20) twenty calendar days after the date the request for hearing is received by the Animal 
Control Manager. The administrative hearing shall be conducted as set forth in section 8.02.150 of this chapter. 
The hearing officer conducting the hearing may either modify the terms of the permit or revoke the permit.
Any party to the hearing has the right to appeal the administrative hearing decision to the San Mateo 
County Superior Court by filing a Petition for a Writ of Administrative Mandate pursuant to California 
Civil Procedure, Section 1094.5 and 1094.6.
(d) Upon written notice by the Animal Control Officer, peace officer, or hearing officer, if a hearing was 
held, if any modifications to a Dangerous Animal permit are made, the Owner shall immediately comply with 
such modified permit requirements.
(e) Upon written notice from an Animal Control Officer, peace officer or hearing officer of the revocation 
of a Dangerous Animal permit, the Owner of such animal shall within two (2) calendar days of such notification, 
surrender said animal to an Animal Control Officer. The Dangerous Animal shall be impounded and humanely 
euthanized unless the County designee or City designee has approved a different disposition. At the sole 
discretion of the appropriate City or County representative, such animal may be permanently removed from the 
County to another jurisdiction with written approval from that jurisdiction.
Section 17. Section 8.02.115 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 18. Section 8.02.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
21 of 517

--- page 22 ---
8.02.120 POSSESSION OF ANIMALS AFTER REVOCATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL PERMIT (County Code § 
6.04.120).
No Person who has been determined to be in possession of or  an Owner of a Dangerous Animal for 
which a permit has been revoked under this chapter shall be granted any Dangerous Animal permit for a period 
of three years following such determination or revocation.
Section 19. Section 8.02.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.130 DECLARATION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS (County Code § 6.04.130).
(a) No Person shall keep, have, maintain, sell, trade or let for hire an animal which has been designated 
as Vicious under the provisions of this chapter.
(b) If an Animal Control Officer and/or Peace Officer has investigated and determined that an animal is 
Vicious, the Animal Control Officer or Peace Officer shall deliver written notice of such determination to the 
Owner of the animal. Service of notice shall be made in accordance with section 8.04.260 subdivision (a) of this 
Chapter. An Animal Control Officer and/or Peace Officer shall immediately impound the animal, or cause to be 
impounded, the animal according to the procedures set forth in Section 8.02.160 of this Chapter. The animal 
shall be deemed abandoned and shall be humanely euthanized unless the County designee or City designee has 
approved a different disposition or unless the Owner timely requests an administrative hearing. 
(c) In determining whether an animal shall be designated Vicious, in addition to any other facts and 
circumstances of the incident(s), the applicable decision-maker may consider the following potentially mitigating 
factors. 
(1) Whether at the time of the injury, attack or molestation, the Person or animal suffering the 
injury, attack, or molestation:
(A) provoked, tormented, teased, abused, or assaulted the animal, thereby causing or 
contributing to the alleged behavior,
(B) committed a willful trespass or other tort upon the private property of the Owner or 
Caretaker of the animal; and/or,
(C) threatened or committed an unjustified attack or assault against the Owner, 
Caretaker, or other Person in control of the charged animal.
The failure of the Owner or other Person in control of a victim animal to have the animal on a 
leash shall not, in itself, constitute a mitigating factor in any attack.
(2) Whether the Owner is willing and able to comply with the conditions of a Dangerous Animal 
permit, and whether the animal can be safely maintained on a Dangerous Animal permit considering the 
nature of the attack and cooperativeness and abilities of the Owner. 
22 of 517

--- page 23 ---
(d) The decision-maker may also consider, among any other relevant facts and circumstances, the 
following factors: 
(1) whether any of the animals involved were previously deemed by any governmental 
jurisdiction as, "dangerous", "vicious", or any other similar designation, and/or the animal Owner’s prior 
compliance or lack thereof with any applicable Dangerous Animal permit requirements or this Chapter;
(2) the attacking animal’s history of attacks, bites or threatening behavior;
(3) whether the animal demonstrated such aggressive behavior that it is reasonable to conclude 
that the animal cannot be safely maintained with a Dangerous Animal permit; and 
(4) whether the Owner is unable or unwilling to comply with the conditions of a Dangerous 
Animal permit.
(e) Should the Owner of the animal wish to contest the Vicious Animal designation, the Owner may 
request an administrative hearing to be conducted according to the procedures set forth in section 8.02.150 of 
this Chapter. The Owner shall submit a written request for a Vicious Animal hearing to the Animal Control 
Officer within seven (7) calendar days of the written notification by the Animal Control Officer and/or peace 
officer that the animal has been declared Vicious. 
(f) Should the Owner not submit a request for an administrative hearing within the required timeframe, 
the administrative hearing process shall be deemed waived, the Vicious Animal designation will be considered 
final for purposes of exhaustion of administrative remedies, and the animal will be subject to disposition by the 
Animal Control Officer, peace officer, or City or County designee. The Owner shall lose all rights of Ownership 
and control of the animal, and the animal will be subject to humane euthanasia, unless another disposition is 
deemed appropriate by a City and/or County designee, without further notice to the Owner.
(g) The unwillingness of a victim or a particular witness to testify at a hearing shall not prevent 
designation of an animal as Vicious as long as sufficient evidence exists to support the designation.
(h) If after investigation, an Animal Control Officer and/or peace officer determines that the animal is 
not Vicious, the Officer will prepare a written decision upon request by any victim suffering physical injury or an 
Owner of a victim animal, either of whom may appeal that determination. Any victim suffering physical injury as 
a result of the attack, or Owner of a victim animal, may appeal the determination that an animal is not Vicious 
by submitting, within seven (7) calendar days of the service of the decision pursuant to section 8.02.260, a 
written request to the Animal Control Officer for an administrative hearing and paying the required fee as set 
forth in Section 8.02.350 of this Chapter. The administrative hearing shall be conducted according to the 
procedures set forth in section 8.04.150 of this Chapter.
Section 20. Section 8.02.140 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.140 PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION (County Code § 6.04.140)
It shall be unlawful for a Person to willfully and knowingly provide false or misleading information to 
Animal Control Program staff, including but not limited to an Animal Control Officer, peace officer, Animal 
23 of 517

--- page 24 ---
Control Program Manager, and/or hearing officer regarding animal ownership, licensing, rabies vaccination, 
medical treatment and condition, and/or any other matter pertaining to the enforcement of state or local law.
Section 21. Section 8.02.150 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.150 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES (County Code § 6.04.150).
(a) Administrative hearings held under this chapter shall be conducted by a hearing officer or designated 
representative appointed by the Director or any designee of the County Health Department. The City contracts 
with the County for animal control services and may elect to utilize the services of any the County designated 
hearing officer to conduct hearings on behalf of the City pursuant to this Chapter. The hearings shall be 
scheduled no less than seven (7) calendar days and no more than fifteen (15) calendar days from the receipt of 
the request for the hearing unless the hearing officer finds good cause for continuance. 
(b) The Animal Control Officer or peace officer conducting the investigation shall provide their 
investigation report and any evidence gathered by the officer to the Animal Control Program Manager or 
designee no less than 72 hours prior to said administrative hearing. The Animal Control Program Manager or 
designee will promptly provide the report to the parties to the case, including the Owner of the subject dog and 
the Owner of the victim dog. 
(c) The administrative hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner consistent with due process of 
law. Any party may be represented by counsel. The parties may present relevant evidence including witnesses. 
The strict rules of evidence shall not be applicable. Any relevant evidence, including but not limited to hearsay 
evidence, may be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which reasonable Persons are accustomed to rely on in 
the conduct of serious affairs. The hearing officer shall decide the matter based on preponderance of the 
evidence presented at the hearing. The administrative hearing shall be recorded, and all documentary evidence 
submitted at the administrative hearing shall be preserved by the Animal Control Program Manager for a period 
of no less than two years. Any party may arrange for a court reporter to be present. Any party desiring the 
presence of a court reporter shall make all necessary arrangements and shall be responsible for payment of all 
costs.
(d) The hearing officer may exclude disorderly or disruptive Persons from the hearing or make other 
orders as necessary to ensure the fair and orderly conduct of the administrative hearing.
(e) The Hearing Officer may decide all issues for or against the Owner(s) of the involved animal(s) even if 
the Owner(s) fail to appear at the hearing.
(f) Within seven (7) calendar days of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer shall render a 
written decision, which shall be final for the purposes of exhaustion of administrative remedies upon the date of 
mailing. The Animal Control Program Manager or designee shall mail the written decision and 
affidavit/certificate of mailing showing the date of mailing, on behalf of the hearing officer, by first class mail, 
postage prepaid. The decision will be mailed to the Owner of the alleged Dangerous or Vicious Animal, the 
victim or Owner of the victim animal, and the investigating Animal Control Officer or peace officer.
24 of 517

--- page 25 ---
(g) If the animal is designated Dangerous, the Owner must apply for and obtain a Dangerous Animal 
permit as provided by this Chapter within seven (7) calendar days of the decision letter in order to maintain the 
animal and the Owner must comply with all mandatory Dangerous Animal permit rules and regulations as 
defined in section 8.02.120 of this Chapter. A hearing officer may impose additional permit requirements as set 
forth in this Chapter.
(h) If the animal is designated Vicious, the Owner of such animal shall lose all rights of ownership and 
control of the animal, and the animal will be subject to humane euthanasia, unless another disposition is 
deemed appropriate by a City and/or County designee, without further notice to the Owner. An animal 
designated as Vicious will be held at the animal shelter for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days from the date 
of the hearing officer's decision, prior to any proposed euthanasia. 
(i) Unless the hearing officer for good cause otherwise determines, the party requesting the 
administrative hearing is liable for all costs related to such hearing. A determination by the hearing officer that 
the animal is not Dangerous or Vicious shall constitute good cause.
(j) Hearing officer decisions are appealable to the San Mateo County Superior Court by filing a Petition 
for Writ of Administrative Mandate pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure, Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6.
(k) The procedures and/or definitions pertaining to potentially Dangerous and Vicious dogs set forth in 
the California Food and Agricultural Code Chapter 9, beginning with section 31601, are not adopted and do not 
apply within the County, as provided in the San Mateo County Ordinance Code. As authorized by Food and 
Agricultural Code section 31683, the County has adopted its own program for regulation of Dangerous and 
Vicious dogs as contained in this Chapter.
Section 22. Section 8.02.160 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.160 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED (County Code § 6.04.160).
(a) The Animal Control Program may impound any animal kept or found under conditions that constitute 
a violation of this Chapter or other state or local law. The animal's Owner shall be responsible for all costs 
incurred or fees applicable with respect to such impoundment and maintenance in the shelter.
(b) An Animal Control Officer or peace officer may impound or cause to be impounded an animal when 
there is reasonable cause to believe that such animal posed, or poses, a threat to the public’s health and safety, 
or the health and safety of another animal. The animal may remain impounded for a period not to exceed 
fifteen (15) calendar days in order to investigate, and to determine whether or not said animal is Dangerous or 
Vicious as defined by this Chapter. In calculating the fifteen (15) calendar days, the first day of impoundment is 
not included. If an animal is not impounded within fifteen (15) calendar days after an investigation began, the 
Animal Control Officer or peace officer shall make a determination whether or not the animal is Vicious or 
Dangerous and shall notify the Owner of said animal as soon as reasonably practical thereafter.
(c) Within twenty-four (24) hours of the impoundment of any animal, the impounding Animal Control 
Officer shall serve the Owner of the animal with notice of the impoundment.
25 of 517

--- page 26 ---
(d) No impounded animal may be redeemed unless and until any required license fee and/or other 
applicable charges and fees have been paid. In the event such animal is not redeemed within the time set forth 
by State law, it shall be deemed abandoned and may be adopted, transferred to a rescue, or disposed of in the 
manner determined by the Animal Control Program. The Animal Control Program shall issue to the Owner or 
Person responsible of the care, custody, and control of said animal a receipt showing an itemized description 
and the amount of the fee(s) paid.
(e) The Animal Control Program shall keep a record of all animals impounded, which record shall include 
a description of the animal, the date of its receipt, the date and manner of disposal, the name of the Person 
redeeming, adopting, or purchasing, the fees, and/or charges related to the animal. Said records shall be kept 
for a period of seven (7) years.
Section 23. Section 8.02.170 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.170 STRAY ANIMALS (County Code § 6.04.170).
Any Person who finds or picks up a stray or lost animal shall report the same to the Animal Control 
Shelter within twenty-four hours thereafter and shall release such animal to the Animal Control Shelter upon 
demand.
Section 24. Section 8.02.180 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.180 EPIDEMICS (County Code § 6.04.180)
The County Health Officer may determine and declare that rabies or other contagious diseases are 
epidemic or that other health and safety hazards exist among dogs or other animals within the County. Upon the 
making of such a declaration, the Health Officer shall prepare and promulgate such orders, rules, and 
regulations as are necessary for appropriate control of all the animals concerned within the County. Said rules 
and regulations of the Health Officer may include, but are not limited to, impoundment, quarantine, vaccination, 
or destruction. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officers to assist the Health Officer in carrying out such 
rules and regulations.
Section 25. Section 8.02.190 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 8.02 as follows:
8.02.190 BITE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (County Code § 6.04.190).
(a) Any Owner or other Person who is responsible for the care, custody, or control of an animal that 
bites a human or other animal shall provide their name and current residence address and telephone number 
and shall present their driver's license or other form of identification and any information regarding any rabies 
vaccination for the biting animal to the Person bitten or the Owner of the animal bitten. If the Person bitten is a 
minor, the Owner or Person in control of the biting animal shall provide the required information to the parent 
or guardian of the minor.
(b) In addition to the above requirements, it shall be the duty of any Person having knowledge of any 
animal which has bitten a human being or other animal within the County to immediately, in no case later than 
the end of the next calendar day, report the bite to an Animal Control Officer or peace officer and to furnish as 
26 of 517

--- page 27 ---
much information as possible, including date, time and location of bite, description of animal or Person bitten, 
name and license number of the biting animal, and rabies vaccination history of the biting animal.
Section 26. Section 8.02.200 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.200 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS (County Code § 6.04.200).
(a) Should an Animal Control Officer, Humane Officer or peace officer determine that a Person has 
violated any provision this Chapter, that enforcement officer shall have authority to issue and serve notice of an 
administrative citation as set forth in section 8.02.260, to the Person violating the Chapter.
(b) Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the Owner or other Person to be cited.
(2) The date(s) of the violation.
(3) The address or a specific description of the location where the violation occurred.
(4) The section, subsection, and/or provision of this Chapter violated by the Person cited and a 
description of that violation.
(5) A prohibition of the continuation or repetition of the violation described in the 
administrative citation.
(6) If applicable a description of the potential consequence(s) should the violation continue or 
be repeated.
(7) Either:
(A) The amount of the administrative fine charged and to be paid by the Person cited as 
a result of the violation; or
(B) A notice to correct a certain violation within a reasonable time, and the amount of 
an administrative fine that may occur if the violation is not corrected or remedied by the date 
specified.
(8) A description of the procedure to pay the fine, to include the time period for and place of 
payment, and the process by which the County may collect any unpaid amount owed.
(9) A description of the administrative citation review process, including the time within which 
the administrative citation may be appealed and how to appeal the administrative citation, including 
any form to do so.
(10) The name and signature of the citing Animal Control Officer, Humane Officer or peace 
officer or County designee.
27 of 517

--- page 28 ---
(c) An administrative citation may be any format, including letter, which conveys the information set 
forth above.
Section 27. Section 8.02.210 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.210 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION (County Code § 6.04.210).
(a) A recipient of an administrative citation may contest the citation including, but not limited to, on the 
basis that the underlying violation did not occur, or that recipient is not the party responsible for the violation 
and thus was the improper recipient of the administrative citation. The recipient must contest the citation on 
the form provided by the Animal Program Manager or Animal Control Officer and file the appeal with the Animal 
Control Program Manager within twelve (12) calendar days from the date of service of the administrative 
citation. Any appeal not timely filed will be rejected.
(b) The appeal shall contain the following provided by the Person appealing the citation:
(1) The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the party requesting the appeal;
(2) A copy of the administrative citation or a reference number thereto;
(3) A statement of the grounds for the contest, including a description of the evidence to be 
presented in support of the contest and copies of any statements or documents to be submitted at the 
hearing in support of the appeal.
(4) The signature of the appealing party;
(5) A deposit of the fine assessed as set forth in the citation(s), to be refunded if the appeal is 
successful.
(c) Should an appeal be properly and timely requested, the requesting party shall be provided a hearing 
before a hearing officer to be held pursuant to the procedures set forth in section 8.02.150 as applicable. The 
Animal Control Program shall notify the Person requesting the appeal hearing of the time and place set for the 
hearing pursuant to section 8.02.260.
Section 28. Section 8.02.220 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.220 PAYMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINES (County Code § 6.04.220).
(a) In the absence of an appeal by the recipient of the administrative citation, the Person cited shall pay 
the administrative fine in full within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of service of the notice of citation. In 
the event of an appeal, after which the violation is upheld, if not already paid, the fine shall be paid in full within 
ten (10) calendar days after the date that the decision of the hearing officer was served on the recipient.
(b) Payment of any fine shall not excuse the failure to correct the violation, nor shall it bar further 
enforcement of the same or any similar violation or any other violation by any applicable means.
28 of 517

--- page 29 ---
(c) Failure to pay any fines assessed within the guidelines set forth in this Chapter will result in a late 
charge pursuant to section 8.02.230, which will be collected by the Animal Control Program Manager.
Section 29. Section 8.02.230 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.230 AMOUNT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINES (County Code § 6.04.230).
(a) Any Person issued an administrative citation for a violation of, and pursuant to, this Chapter shall be 
assessed and pay a fine as follows:
(1) One hundred dollars ($100) for a first citation.
(2) Two hundred dollars ($200) for a second citation for the same violation within a one-year 
period.
(3) Five hundred ($500) for each additional citation for the same violation within a one-year 
period.
Section 30. Section 8.02.240 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.240 MISDEMEANOR VIOLATIONS (County Code § 6.04.240).
(a) A Person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction except as otherwise 
specifically provided.
(b) A Person violating any provision of section 8.02.050, subsection (a) of section 8.02.090 or subsection 
(a) of section 8.04.130 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) This section shall not limit any other available criminal, civil or administrative remedies. Any or all 
applicable remedies shall remain available for violation of the provisions of this Chapter.
Section 31. Section 8.02.250 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.250 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER A PUBLIC NUISANCE; REMEDIES CUMULATIVE (County Code § 6.04.250).
(a) Violation of this Chapter is a public nuisance subject to any and all applicable civil, administrative, 
and criminal remedies, according to the provisions and procedures set forth in this Chapter and other applicable 
state and local law.
(b) This section is not intended to limit any other available criminal, civil or administrative remedies. Any 
or all applicable administrative, civil and /or criminal remedies shall be available for violation of the provisions of 
this Chapter.
(c) Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Section 32. Section 8.02.260 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
29 of 517

--- page 30 ---
8.02.260 SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS AND NOTICES (County Code § 6.04.260).
(a) Unless otherwise specified herein, the appropriate representative of the Animal Control Program 
shall provide any required notice or service of documents in the one of the following manners: (1) by personal 
delivery to the Person to be notified or served; or (2) by posting on the property at the address where the 
subject animal is licensed or the Owner of such animal resides; or (3) by depositing in the United States Mail, in a 
sealed envelope, first class postage prepaid, and addressed to such Person to be notified or served at their last-
known business or residence address or as the same appears in the last equalized County assessment roll. 
Service by mail shall be deemed complete at the time of deposit in the United States Mail receptacle and shall 
include a declaration or affidavit of service which shall include notice of the date mailed. If agreed in writing by 
the Person to be served, notices or documents may be served electronically at the address provided by the 
Person to be served, to be effective upon being sent.
(b) Failure to receive any notice specified herein does not affect the validity of proceedings conducted 
hereunder.
Section 33. Section 8.02.270 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.270 FIELD RETURN FEE (County Code § 6.04.270).
A fee shall be charged for any animal impounded by a representative of the Animal Control Program and 
returned by an Animal Control Officer in the field to the Owner or Person who is responsible for the care, 
custody, or control of the animal. The fee charged shall be paid by the Owner or Person who is responsible for 
the care, custody, or control of said animal. Such fee shall be set forth in Section 8.02.350.
Section 34. Section 8.02.280 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.280 REDEMPTION AND SPAY/NEUTER FEE (County Code § 6.04.860).
(a) Upon redemption of any impounded unaltered animal, the Person responsible for the care, custody 
or control of any animal will be required to pay a spay or neuter fee in the amount of $100.00 in addition to the 
impound fees imposed under Section 8.02.350 of this Chapter. Such fee shall be refundable upon proof of spay 
and neuter of the animal within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of redemption.
(b) Any unaltered animal impounded twice or more within a three-year period shall be altered at a cost 
to be paid by the Owner/Caretaker or Person responsible for the care, custody, or control of said animal prior to 
redemption. At the option of the Owner/Caretaker or Person responsible for the care, custody or control of said 
animal, required spaying or neutering may be performed by a private veterinarian within thirty (30) calendar 
days.
(c) Any Owner or Caretaker of an impounded animal subject to mandatory spay/neuter under 
Subsection (b) of this Section may appeal this requirement by submitting a written request for an administrative 
hearing to the Animal Control Program Manager. The administrative hearing will be conducted according to the 
provisions of Section 8.02.150 of this Chapter.
30 of 517

--- page 31 ---
(d) The Animal Control Program Manager may waive any County or City fee for County or City 
spay/neuter, vaccination or impoundment of an animal, if the animal is a feral or stray cat and the Person 
bringing the animal to the shelter agrees that the Person shall have no rights in the animal or any right to direct 
or control treatment or disposition of the animal by the Animal Control Program which will retain sole discretion 
in determining the disposition of the animal, which may include but not be limited to treatment and/or 
adoption, or euthanasia.
Section 35. Section 8.02.290 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
8.02.290 QUARANTINE FEE (County Code § 6.04.290).
A quarantine fee, as set forth in Section 8.02.350, shall be paid by the Owner or Caretaker of any animal 
involved, or potentially involved in a bite. Such quarantine fee is in addition to any other fees charged set forth 
in Section 8.02.350 of this Chapter to recover costs incurred by the Animal Control Program for sheltering and 
caring for the quarantined animal.
Section 36. Section 8.02.300 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 37. Section 8.02.310 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 38. Section 8.02.320 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 39. Section 8.02.330 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 40. Section 8.02.350 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 8.02 as follows:
8.02.350 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES (County Code § 6.04.350).
Animal Control Program fees and charges established by this Code shall be as adopted and from time to 
time amended by the County and set forth in Section 6.04.350 of the County Code.
Section 41. Section 8.02.360 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 8.02 as follows:
Section 42. Section 8.02.370 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 8.02 as follows:
8.02.370 SEVERABILITY (County Code § 6.04.370).
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Chapter should be held to be invalid 
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality thereof shall not 
affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section, subsection, clause, phrase or word of this Chapter.
Section 43. Section 8.02.400 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 44. Section 8.02.420 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 45. Section 8.02.430 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
31 of 517

--- page 32 ---
Section 46. Section 8.02.440 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 47. Section 8.02.450 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 48. Section 8.02.460 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 49. Section 8.02.470 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 50. Section 8.02.480 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 51. Section 8.02.490 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 52. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 21065, this action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that 
it will not cause a physical change in the environment.
Section 53. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 54. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
32 of 517

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 24-8435
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Juneteenth Annual Holiday Designation for City Employees – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to designate Juneteenth as an annual holiday for City Employees.
BACKGROUND:
Juneteenth, also known as "Juneteenth Independence Day," "Emancipation Day," "Emancipation Celebration," and 
"Freedom Day," is the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States.
June 19, 1865, is considered the date when the last enslaved Black people in America were freed, almost two and 
one-half years after President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation and six months after Congress passed 
the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, abolishing slavery throughout the United States and 
its territories.
Juneteenth is a day to acknowledge the suffering caused by slavery and to acknowledge the evils of slavery and its 
aftermath.
Juneteenth represents the ways in which the freedom of Black people has been delayed and that freedom and racial 
equality have always been a hard-fought battle for Black Americans, a battle that continues to this day.
The State of California recognizes the third Saturday in June of each year as Juneteenth National Freedom Day.
Juneteenth offers us the opportunity to celebrate the many accomplishments and contributions of African-American 
people throughout our nation's history.
Juneteenth also provides us with the opportunity to learn about, teach, and reflect on the complex history of the 
United States, including the fact that not all Americans celebrated their independence on July 4th, 1776. 
The United States continues to struggle to meet the promise of liberty and justice for all, especially for members of 
our Black communities.
Adoption of this resolution will designate June 19th as the Juneteenth holiday for City employees. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The fiscal impact can be absorbed by the current budget.  Any increase to the holiday-in-lieu payments will be effective the 
first full pay period following Council adoption.
33 of 517

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Sr. HR Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7279
34 of 517

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
RECOGNIZING JUNE 19TH AS A CITY OF SAN MATEO HOLIDAY
WHEREAS, Juneteenth, also known as "Juneteenth Independence Day," "Emancipation Day," 
"Emancipation Celebration," and "Freedom Day," is the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the 
ending of slavery in the United States; and
WHEREAS, June 19, 1865, is considered the date when the last enslaved Black people in America 
were freed, almost two and one-half years after President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation 
and six months after Congress passed the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, 
abolishing slavery throughout the United States and its territories; and
WHEREAS, Juneteenth is a day to acknowledge the suffering caused by slavery and to 
acknowledge the evils of slavery and its aftermath; and
WHEREAS, Juneteenth represents the ways in which the freedom of Black people has been delayed 
and that freedom and racial equality have always been a hard-fought battle for Black Americans, a battle 
that continues to this day; and
WHEREAS, the State of California recognizes the third Saturday in June of each year as Juneteenth 
National Freedom Day; and
WHEREAS, Juneteenth offers us the opportunity to celebrate the many accomplishments and 
contributions of African-American people throughout our nation's history; and
WHEREAS, Juneteenth also provides us with the opportunity to learn about, teach, and reflect on 
the complex history of the United States, including the fact that not all Americans celebrated their 
independence on July 4th, 1776; and
WHEREAS, the United States continues to struggle to meet the promise of liberty and justice for all, 
especially for members of our Black communities.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
It will recognize June 19th, Juneteenth as a City holiday.
35 of 517

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6600
File ID: 24-8341
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Marina Library Structural Improvements Project – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 with Siegel & Strain Architects for design professional services for the Marina Library Structural 
Improvements Project in an amount not to exceed $265,434 for a new total agreement amount of $362,114; establish a 
contingency reserve of $36,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the 
form presented and any future amendments within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Marina Branch Library is located at 1530 Susan Court and has served the community since 1966. Situated on the west 
embankment of Seal Slough, the building has experienced differential settlement and currently leans toward the 
waterway. As a result, the floor of the interior slopes up to 7% and has created an uncomfortable environment for both 
patrons and staff. Moreover, the slope of the floor exceeds current American with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. 
Preliminary geotechnical and structural investigations indicate the differential settlement has occurred due to 
consolidation of the bay mud soils below the one-story library building.
City staff developed the Marina Library Structural Improvements Project (Project) to resolve the settlement issues with the 
installation of deep helical piles to underpin the existing foundation. The Project will also implement additional 
improvements to comply with ADA requirements including the replacement of existing ramps at the entrance to the 
library and interior spaces, re-grading of the parking lot, and site drainage improvements. Additional improvements (e.g. 
lighting, external/indoor painting, flooring, roof, HVAC equipment, fire sprinkler and alarm system, restrooms, etc.) will be 
evaluated during the design phase of the Project.
On July 27, 2023, staff executed an agreement with Siegel & Strain Architects (S&S) for design professional services in an 
amount not to exceed $45,000. Staff awarded this agreement in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
3.60.040(c), which allows award to professional services consultants through a negotiated process without competitive 
bidding. Staff determined that S&S was the best qualified for this Project due to their technical expertise, in-depth 
knowledge with municipal branch libraries, and design experience as the prime architect for libraries in neighboring 
jurisdictions.
On December 8, 2023, staff executed Amendment No. 1 for an amount not to exceed $51,680 to provide budget for S&S 
to include (1) an expanded alternatives analysis of spatial programming and functional area analysis of the Marina Library 
and (2) furthering of the structural foundation design/seismic retrofit design alternatives. The scope of work for S&S 
included all components required for pre-design, but does not include the scope of work required for the next phase of the 
Project. Proposed Amendment No. 2  expands the scope of services and budget for S&S by adding Task 6 to the scope of 
services to complete the Project’s next phase, which includes the conceptual design and construction bid documents for 
36 of 517

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the structural foundation.
Staff reviewed and negotiated S&S’s proposal for work under Amendment No. 2 for a not-to-exceed amount of $265,434. 
Staff believes the cost is reasonable for the scope of work and expertise required and recommends approving Amendment 
No. 2. Staff also recommends establishing a 10% contingency reserve to allow for scope modifications to address 
unknowns as the design proceeds. The existing term of the agreement is through December 31, 2025, unless amended. 
The Project is currently in the final stages of pre-design and will then move into conceptual design. As the project moves 
toward construction, staff will provide a Project update to City Council.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Marina Library Structural Improvements Project (665100) to fund this amendment and 
contingency reserve.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of Amendment No. 2 is not a project subject to CEQA, because work associated with the Marina Library 
Structural Improvements Project is categorically exempt as an “existing facility,” in that it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer 
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7576 
 
Tina Pham, Acting Engineering Manager 
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7305 
37 of 517

--- page 38 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 7
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SIEGEL & STRAIN ARCHITECTS 
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR MARINA LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
($45,000 [Original Amount], [$51,680] [Amendment 1], [$265,434] [Amendment 2])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Siegel & Strain Architects, a Corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Design 
Professional Services for Marina Library Improvements (“Agreement”) on July 27, 2023; and
WHEREAS, on December 8, 2023, City and Consultant executed Amendment No. 1, which 
increased the scope of work and compensation in the amount of $51,680, for a total amount of 
$96,680; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to increase scope, as described in 
Exhibit A attached and incorporated by reference, and to increase compensation for the services in the 
amount of $265,434, for a total amount of $362,114.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 5 - Payment of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT a fee, based on a time and expenses reimbursement basis, in an 
amount of $362,114, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached 
and incorporated by reference. 
Cost adjustment for the second and subsequent year’s annual fixed amounts will be 
made using annual indexes of the “Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers,” Bay 
Area City Average, all items (1967=100) as published in the Monthly Review by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, (CPI). The annual increase in rates is not to exceed CPI or 3%, 
whichever is lower.”
2.
The attached Exhibit A, noted in this Amendment No. 2, hereby replaces the existing 
Exhibit A in this Agreement in its entirety.
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
38 of 517

--- page 39 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 7
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Siegel & Strain Architects executed this Amendment 
No. 2 on ______________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood 
Interim Public Works Director
Date
Susi Marzuola
Its Authorized Agent
President, Siegel & Strain 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
39 of 517

--- page 40 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 3 of 7
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
I. Task 1: Project Initiation, Project Management, and Coordination 
Consultant shall perform the following project management activities to assist the City in Phase 1 (Pre-design) of 
the Marina Library Improvements Project (Project). This may include but not be limited to:  
1.
Finalize scope, fees, contract, and invoicing procedures 
2.
Finalize project schedule 
3.
Document project goals including those for sustainability 
4.
Gather and review relevant documentation: geotechnical reports, contract documents from 
previous San Mateo Library projects, existing building documentation, CASp reports, surveys, 
drawings, etc. 
5.
1-hour weekly PM meetings via Zoom. 
6.
Coordination with City Staff and the other Project team members, which includes the Project’s 
civil engineer, structural engineer, environmental consultant, constructability advisors, etc.  
 
Task 1 Deliverables: 
•
Monthly Invoices and Progress Reports  
II. Task 2: Building Condition Assessment 
1.
Walk building and site to evaluate condition of: 
a.
Existing building envelope and exterior finishes. 
b.
Mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems. 
c.
Structural system components, including crawlspace 
d.
Interior finishes, furnishings, and equipment. 
e.
Accessibility compliance in reference to DAC’s 2020 report. 
2.
Interview current maintenance and operations staff regarding building and site conditions  
- schedule simultaneously with site walk. 
3.
Coordinate with specialists regarding viability of foundation stabilization approaches: 
a.
Walk site with City arborist to evaluate condition of existing trees relative to foundation 
work. 
b.
Coordinate with Geotechnical report update, including recommendations for drainage 
and foundations. 
c.
Coordinate with foundation contractor regarding constructability approach. 
d.
Coordinate with BKF civil engineers on site drainage strategies. 
e.
Coordinate with environmental consultant for environmental review process 
4.
Summarize architectural, interiors, MEP, and structural findings in memo format: 
a.
Summary of existing conditions and information gathered. 
b.
Identify relevant codes, code deficiencies, and thresholds at which specific codes will be 
triggered. 
c.
Make initial recommendations for conceptual design solutions to be explored. 
d.
Identify additional studies required, such as waterproofing. 
5.
Develop up to two (2) Structural Conceptual Design options for stabilizing the existing 
foundation, formatted as PDF mark-ups. 
6.
Support cost estimating efforts by the City for the preferred Structural Conceptual Design. 
 
Task 2 Deliverables: 
•
Condition assessment memos including plan markups as needed. 
•
Up to two (2) Structural Conceptual Design options including structural design narratives for 
alternatives and thresholds for code triggers. 
40 of 517

--- page 41 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 4 of 7
Rev 7/21
 
Task 2 Meetings: 
•
Team Site Walk and interview with Maintenance Staff, 2 hours at site. 
•
One additional site meeting with specialists regarding foundation stabilization, as needed. 
•
Work session with the City’s project management team to review the existing building 
evaluation memos and plan next steps, one (1) 1-hour meeting via Zoom. 
•
Work sessions with structural engineer and City’s project management team to review draft 
structural design options, coordinate for structural cost estimating, and review cost estimate 
prepared by the City, two (2) 1-hour meeting via Zoom. 
 
III. Task 3: General Consulting Services 
Consultant shall provide limited general consulting services to additionally support the City with Phase 1 (Pre-
design) of the Project. Consultant shall request the City’s written authorization prior to commencing with any 
services as part of Task 3. 
   
Task 3 Deliverables: To be determined.  
 
IV. Task 4: Spatial Programming 
1.
Coordinate with Deputy City Librarian to gather information on the collection:
a.
Quantity and types of volumes 
b.
How volumes are displayed 
2.
Interview Marina Branch Librarian and Supervising Librarian regarding: 
a.
Daily schedule, check-out procedures, program areas and activities (story time, hoteling, etc)
b.
Adjacencies and any other specific space attributes
c.
Needs for furniture (shelving, tables, chairs) and equipment (computers, printers, auto 
checkout, etc.) 
d.
Constraints of the existing facilities
3.
Develop a spatial program document listing use areas and requirements; and functional area 
diagram to confirm spatial program requirements. 
4.
Update project goals with information gathered in interviews
  
Task 4 Deliverables: 
•
Spatial Programming and Functional Area Diagram 
Task 4 Meetings: 
•
In-person interview with City Staff (e.g. City Librarian and Marina Branch Librarians)
•
Presentation of Spatial Programming, one (1) 1-hour meeting via Zoom
•
Two (2) 1-hour meeting PM meetings via Zoom
 
V. Task 5: Structural Foundation Stabilization Design Development & Construction Documents and Schematic 
Seismic Retrofit Design
1.
 Design Development for Foundation Retrofit
a.
Perform preliminary calculations as required.
b.
Prepare Design Development (DD) Drawings for the foundation retrofit from a Revit Model 
including foundation plans with member sizing as well as general notes and typical details.
2.
Selective Demolition Plan for exploratory investigation of existing wall assemblies
a.
Develop a Selective Demolition Plan for the super structure to convey where finishes need to be 
locally removed to verify existing wall sheathing, sill anchorage, etc. The selective demolition is 
to be completed by an owner-hired contractor based on direction provided by ZFA
b.
Perform (1) site visit to observe structural after selective demolition has been completed.
3.
Schematic Seismic Retrofit design of wood structure above foundation
41 of 517

--- page 42 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 5 of 7
Rev 7/21
a.
Perform preliminary calculations as required to validate seismic retrofit design. The seismic 
retrofit will be designed for 75% of the current Building Code requirements, which is in-line with 
the California Existing Building Code.
b.
Provide Schematic Seismic Retrofit drawings via PDF markups on as-built and/or architectural 
drawings, with sufficient information to convey the design intent and allow a preliminary cost 
estimate to be performed by others if desired.
c.
Schematic retrofit drawings to be incorporated into Conceptual Design Cost Estimate (see Task 
VI). 
4.
Structural Engineer Coordination:
a.
Support environmental consultant with requested information
b.
Participate in development of Revit model (foundation only) such that it is coordinated with the 
full Revit model produced in subsequent design phases
c.
Coordinate with City on destructive testing and pile testing including review of results
d.
Review of structural deliverables
e.
Particulate in structural review meetings review cost analysis of the foundation and site work.
5.
Develop structural foundation design to 50% CD level
a.
Prepare 50% Construction Documents structural foundation design, including:
a.
Update Design Development structural drawings with project specific notes, details and 
schedules.
b.
Code summary
c.
Demolition Plan sheets specifying structural and non-structural materials and elements 
to be demolished, protected in place, or replaced 
d.
Technical Specifications for foundation work only
e.
Cost Estimate
b.
MEP team to review and comment on non-structural demolition scope. Architectural and 
structural team to incorporate comments into design documents. 
c.
Submit 50% Construction Documents to City for review
6.
Develop structural foundation design to 90% CD level (Permit Submittal)
a.
Meet with City to review 50% CD documents, construction cost estimate, and City comments.
b.
Prepare 90% Construction Documents, including:
a.
Update to 50% CD documents
b.
Structural calculations for permit submittal
c.
Revised Cost Estimate
d.
MEP team to review and comment on non-structural demolition scope. Architectural 
and structural team to incorporate comments into design documents.
e.
Submit permit documents and cost estimate for review by City
f.
Revise and submit permit documents for review by City of San Mateo Building 
Department
g.
Respond to up to two (2) rounds of plan check comments
7.
Develop structural foundation design to 90% CD level (Permit Submittal)
a.
Meet with City to review 90% CD documents, construction cost estimate, permit comments, and 
City comments.
b.
Incorporate permit comments, City comments, and full design team comments into 
Construction Documents.
c.
Prepare 100% Construction Documents, including:
a.
Update to 90%CD documents
d.
Submit 100% Construction Documents to City
Task 5 Deliverables: 
•
Design Development (DD) drawings for the Foundation Retrofit
•
Selective Demolition Plan for exploratory investigation of existing wall assemblies
42 of 517

--- page 43 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 6 of 7
Rev 7/21
•
Schematic Design (SD) Seismic Retrofit drawings
•
50% Construction Documents, Drawings and Specifications
•
50% Cost Estimate
•
90% Construction Documents, Drawings, Calculation and Specifications (Permit Submittal)
•
90% Cost Estimate
•
100% Construction Documents, Drawings and Specifications
Task 5 Meetings: 
•
Attend up to two (2) 1-hour virtual meeting to coordinate design work as it relates to the 
foundation retrofit
•
Attend up to two(2) 1-hour virtual meeting to coordinate design work as it relates to the 
schematic seismic retrofit
•
Design Development review with City
•
50% CD Review with City
•
90% CD (Permit Set) Review with City
•
Pre-permit submittal meetings with Regulatory Agencies (up to 2)
•
Plan Check comments review meeting (2, if needed)
•
Ongoing coordination and progress meeting (up to 6) with City 
VI. Task 6: Conceptual Design Options & Costing
1. Coordinate Develop Conceptual Design, including the following:
a.
Up to three (3) draft conceptual architectural plan options. 
b.
Concept for interior finishes and furnishings 
c.
Options for upgrades to mechanical, plumbing, electrical systems, fire suppression/alarm and 
roof assembly.
d.
Support Civil Engineer in their development of site improvement
e.
Develop Conceptual Design Cost Estimating package
2. Revit Modeling of Existing Building, to be used as a basis for developing conceptual design options. 
3. Site Design
a.
Two (2) draft conceptual landscape plan options. 
b.
Preliminary fine grading study
c.
Coordination with A/E team, as well as with City on neighboring development
4. Coordinate conceptual designs with proposed structural retrofit. 
5. Develop Construction Cost Estimate of non-structural foundation scope 
6. Prepare Conceptual Design presentation documents
a.
Design team would further develop interior design and furnishings selections and document in 
a presentation-level document, including a rendered floor plan, precedent images, interior 
materials sample board, images of proposed furnishing and up to two (2) 3-d rendered views 
of the library interior. This document would be presented to stakeholders and would be 
intended to build enthusiasm for funding the interiors fit-out. 
b.
Document also to include a list of all proposed furnishings with list pricing. 
7. Convene draft Conceptual Design meeting. Review options and designate a single preferred plan and 
additive alternative options to be included in the cost estimating package. 
8. Coordinate conceptual design package with the State’s California Energy Design Assistance (CEDA) 
program.
Task 6 Deliverables: 
•
Slide presentation from draft Conceptual Design review meeting including plan options, site plans 
options, precedent images for interiors, and analysis of MEP and structural options.
•
Conceptual Design Cost Estimating package including a conceptual floor plan and description of: 
architectural improvements, furnishings and finishes, MEP systems, and landscape improvements. 
43 of 517

--- page 44 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 7 of 7
Rev 7/21
Cost Estimating package to be organized as a single preferred floor plan and site plan with additive 
alternatives.
•
Construction Cost Estimate based on Conceptual Design Cost Estimating Package, including additive 
alternatives 
Task 6 Meetings: 
•
Draft Conceptual Design review meeting, one (1) 1.5-hour meeting via Zoom
•
Work sessions with City staff to select and organize options, coordinate approach to cost estimating, 
three (3) 1-hour meeting via Zoom held in lieu of weekly PM meetings. 
•
Meeting to review Cost Estimate (1) 1-hour meeting via Zoom.
•
Three (3) 1-hour weekly PM meetings via Zoom. 
•
Three (3) 1-hour Zoom meetings with California Energy Design Assistance (CEDA) program 
administrator. 
44 of 517

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-8377
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Citywide On-Call Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Repair Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 with Bayside Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc. DBA CP Mechanical for Citywide On-Call Heating, 
Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Repair Services increasing the Agreement amount by $70,000, for a revised total not to 
exceed amount of $169,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
City Facility Maintenance crews are responsible for maintaining Citywide Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 
systems. If a repair is needed that is deemed too large to complete in-house or beyond staffing capability, a contractor 
with expertise is needed to perform the work.  
In November 2021, the City entered into an agreement with Bayside Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc. DBA CP Mechanical 
(CP Mechanical) in the amount of $48,000 for quarterly maintenance of the City’s facilities and on-call emergency repairs 
with payment based on a time and material basis. In March 2023, City facilities encountered historic rains and drastically 
different weather patterns that resulted in an unforeseen amount of HVAC repairs, specifically at the Police Department. 
Therefore, a change order was issued to add $35,000, bringing the agreement total to $83,000 due to greater-than-
anticipated HVAC repair service calls. In September 2023, a second change order in the amount of $16,000 was issued, 
increasing the total agreement amount to $99,000, again due to greater-than-anticipated HVAC repair service calls.
Amendment No. 1, increasing the agreement amount by $70,000, is being requested due to a continued increase in 
requests for on-call and emergency repair services and major repairs, including ongoing emergency work at the Police 
Department. This type of work is only performed by contractors and CP Mechanical is the only local supplier that has 
serviced and maintained the Police Department equipment. Given CP Mechanical’s in-depth knowledge and understanding 
of the Police Department, they are in the best position to continue performing the quarterly maintenance, on-call, and 
emergency repairs.
Based on the above, staff recommends approval of Amendment No. 1 to increase the Agreement amount by $70,000 for 
an amount not to exceed $169,000. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Facilities Operating Budget to cover the cost of this amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Amendment is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
45 of 517

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Derek Bahamondes, Building Maintenance Supervisor
dbahamondes@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7355
46 of 517

--- page 47 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
                       BAYSIDE HEATING & AIR CONDITIONING, INC. DBA CP MECHANICAL FOR
CITYWIDE ON-CALL HVAC SUPPORT AND EMERGENCY REPAIR SERVICES
($48,000 [Original Amount] $35,000 [Change Order 1] $16,000  [Change Order 2] $70,000 
[Amendment 1])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, 
and Bayside Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc. DBA CP Mechanical (“CONTRACTOR”), entered into an 
Agreement for Citywide On-Call HVAC Support and Emergency Repair Services (“Agreement”) on 
November 17, 2021; and
WHEREAS, on March 24, 2023, CITY issued Change Order No. 1 increasing the Agreement 
amount by $35,000, for a total not to exceed amount of $83,000; and
WHEREAS, on September 25, 2023, CITY issued Change Order No. 2 increasing the Agreement 
amount by $16,000, for a total not to exceed amount of $99,000; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONTRACTOR wish to amend the Agreement to increase the amount of the 
Agreement by $70,000, for a total not to exceed Agreement amount of $169,000 due to an increased 
need for on-call, emergency repair services, and major repairs.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 5  “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount not to exceed $169,000, pursuant to the rates 
stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
47 of 517

--- page 48 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Bayside Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc. DBA CP 
Mechanical have executed this Amendment on ___________________ .
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood
Interim Public Works Director
Date
Chris Paul 
Its Authorized Agent
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
48 of 517

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-468
File ID: 24-8406
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2nd & El Camino Garage Improvements – Professional Services Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement to ZFA Structural Engineers for professional engineering services in the amount of $139,287.50; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $21,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The 2nd & El Camino Garage has served the San Mateo downtown community for over seventy-five years. It is a concrete 
structure that has 385 parking spaces spanning five and a half stories. In 2022, ZFA Structural Engineering (ZFA) performed 
a structural investigation which identified exposed, ruptured, and corroded post-tension beam tendons in various areas 
and recommends that repairs be made to restore the integrity of the structure. In 2023, the City developed a two phased 
approach to address the structural issues: Phase 1: Post-tension Beam Tendon Repairs, which includes the replacement of 
post-tension beam tendons in multiple areas and Phase 2: Parking Garage Structural & Safety Improvements, which 
includes the replacement of the stairs, improvements to the concrete surfaces, rebar, lighting, vehicle barriers, exterior 
façade, public sidewalk, signage, striping, waterproofing, security system, and implementation of the City’s Downtown 
Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Plan. The design documents for the first phase of repairs to the post-tensioned beam 
tendons were produced in 2023 and the project was awarded for construction in January 2024.  Design documents for the 
Phase 2 repairs are currently in production.
Based on the structural assessment and investigation, it is expected that the parking structure will shift during the Phase 1 
construction, further compromising the integrity that is being restored. Therefore, it is recommended that the City take a 
proactive approach and perform full-time engineering and monitoring during the construction phase to observe, identify, 
document and resolve changes as they occur. In December 2023, it was discovered that additional tendons have severed 
since 2022, so time is of the essence.  The construction agreement for the tendon repairs was awarded in January 2024 
and the start of work is imminent.  Therefore, issuing a formal request for proposals for the monitoring is not advisable 
due to the time constraints.  Due to this, City staff directly contacted three firms to solicit proposals, as authorized by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(c), and ZFA Structural Engineers was the only firm to submit a proposal to perform 
the necessary services including inspections, surveying, testing, sampling, scanning, documenting, and reporting.  This 
information will also be used in the design documents for Phase 2.
Based on the above, staff recommends approving an agreement with ZFA Structural Engineering because of positive 
performances with similar projects within the City, their in-depth knowledge of this specific facility, and their immediate 
availability.
49 of 517

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in the Parking Facility Structural Repairs (46F025) project to award this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
50 of 517

--- page 51 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 10
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH ZFA STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
2ND & EL CAMINO GARAGE STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and ZFA STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS, a Corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1390 El 
Camino Real, Suite 100, San Carlos, CA 94070.
RECITALS:
A. CITY desires certain professional consulting services hereinafter described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional consulting 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
51 of 517

--- page 52 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 10
Rev 9/22
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on March 1, 2024 and be 
completed on June 30, 2025.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $139,287.50 pursuant to Exhibit A.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
52 of 517

--- page 53 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 10
Rev 9/22
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit B to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
53 of 517

--- page 54 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 10
Rev 9/22
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
54 of 517

--- page 55 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 10
Rev 9/22
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Steve Wu, Project Manager
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
ZFA Structural Engineers
Attn:  Mark A. Moore, Executive 
Principal
1390 El Camino Real, Suite 100
San Carlos, CA 94070
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
55 of 517

--- page 56 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 10
Rev 9/22
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
56 of 517

--- page 57 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 10
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and ZFA Structural Engineers have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Brad B. Underwood
Interim Public Works Director
Date
Mark A. Moore 
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Insurance Requirements
57 of 517

--- page 58 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 10
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
 
58 of 517

--- page 59 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 10
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
59 of 517

--- page 60 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 10
Rev 9/22
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
60 of 517

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-468
File ID: 24-8407
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2nd and El Camino Garage and Central Garage Elevator Modernization - Budget Appropriation and Construction Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution authorizing a budget appropriation from the Downtown Parking Improvements Project to the Elevator 
Modernization Project in an amount of $645,000; approve a construction contract with On Point Construction for 
construction to improve the elevator controls at the 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage and Central Parking Garage in the 
amount of $830,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $166,000; and authorize the Public Works Director 
to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The current elevator at the 2nd & El Camino Garage was installed in 1991, serves five floors, and has been intermittently 
out of service for the past three years.  The current elevator at the Central Garage was installed in 1999, serves four floors, 
and has been completely out of service for the past sixteen months. An assessment performed in 2018 recommended that 
a controls upgrade be implemented at both locations to replace the existing obsolete systems to maintain safe operations.  
In October 2021, the City engaged Consolidated CM, Inc. to produce design specifications related to the controls upgrade 
and other associated improvements as required by the California Building Code. The bid documents for this project were 
subsequently advertised in October 2023. Bids were received on January 18, 2024, with the following results:
Company
Bid Amount
On Point Construction
$830,000
Ultimate Construction, Inc.
$939,776
On Point Construction was determined to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder, but its bid was above the 
engineer’s estimate of $700,000. However, the original engineer’s estimate did not include the increase in construction 
and materials cost in 2023-2024. Therefore, On Point Construction’s bid of $830,000 is $130,000 greater than the 
engineer’s construction base estimate at the time of bidding. Staff had anticipated the increase, accounting for escalation 
during the budget development phase, and provided sufficient funding to execute the project in 2024. Based on the above, 
staff recommends the contract be awarded to On Point Construction as the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. 
Staff also recommends a 20% contingency because of expected unknown conditions that will be uncovered during 
construction such as the hydraulic cylinders, which will be removed, evaluated and possibly replaced.  The contingency 
amount is expected to cover this cost.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Elevator Modernization Project (46F035) currently does not have sufficient capital budget to fund this construction 
61 of 517

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
contract and contingency reserve. Staff recommend the City Council authorize a budget transfer in the amount of 
$645,000 from the Downtown Parking Improvements Project (461001) to the Elevator Modernization Project (46F035). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
62 of 517

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
AUTHORIZING AN APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $645,000 FROM THE DOWNTOWN PARKING 
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT TO THE ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
WHEREAS, the Council considers mid-year budget balancing through adjustments, appropriations, 
designations and transfers to adjust the current-year budget to meet anticipated changes in departmental 
budgetary needs; and
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes the need to replace the elevator controls at the 2nd and El 
Camino Garage and at the Central Garage to meet the public safety needs of the City of San Mateo and 
dedicated funding for the Elevator Modernization Project (46F035) in the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Adopted 
Budget; and
WHEREAS, additional funding for the Elevator Modernization Project (46F035) is required because it 
currently does not have enough remaining available budget to cover the estimated $830,000 funding to award 
the construction contract to improve the elevator controls at 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage and Central 
Parking Garage and establish a contingency reserve of $166,000; and
WHEREAS, the Downtown Parking Improvements Project (461001) was established to improve and 
repair existing downtown parking structures to maintain safe operations and $645,000 is available in the 
project budget to be transferred to satisfy the additional funding needs.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1.
This City Council action approving a budget transfer to fund elevator improvements is categorically 
exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private 
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no 
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
A transfer in the Capital Project Fund totaling $645,000 from the Downtown Parking 
Improvements Project (461001) to the Elevator Modernization Project (46F035) Project is 
authorized.
63 of 517

--- page 64 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 1 of 96
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION
This Contract is by and between.
OWNER
CONTRACTOR
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street
San Mateo, California 94403
On Point Construction
322 Lang Road
Burlingame, CA 94010
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK
1.01
Work
A.
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents.
B.
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows:
1.
2nd and El Camino Garage and Central Garage Elevator Modernization, and all 
necessary labor, materials, equipment, and appurtenances necessary to complete the 
work as called for in the Contract Documents.
2.
The Site of the Work includes property, easements, and designated work areas 
described in greater detail in the Contract Documents but generally located at 95 S. El 
Camino Real and 315 S. Ellsworth Avenue, San Mateo, California.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY
2.01
Defined Terms
A.
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms.
1.
Architect: N/A
2.
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
64 of 517

--- page 65 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 2 of 96
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material.
3.
Engineer: Bureau Veritas-National Elevator Inspection Services
4.
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition.
5.
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is:
a.
Scott Ritter, Consolidated CM, Inc.
2.02
Terminology
A.
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning.
B.
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives:
1.
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents.
C.
Day:
1.
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight.
D.
Defective:
1.
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it:
a.
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or
b.
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or
65 of 517

--- page 66 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 3 of 96
c.
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion.
E.
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide:
1.
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition.
2.
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
3.
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
4.
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use.
F.
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning.
2.03
Contract Documents Defined
A.
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents:
1.
This Contract.
2.
Notice to Bidders.
3.
Instructions to Bidders. 
4.
Contractor’s Bid.
5.
Performance bond.
6.
Payment bond.
7.
Addenda.
8.
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows):
a.
Exhibit A – Scope of Work
b.
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts.
c.
Exhibit C - Specifications
9.
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract:
a.
Work Change Directives.
b.
Change Orders.
66 of 517

--- page 67 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 4 of 96
c.
Field Orders.
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
3.01
Intent of Contract Documents
A.
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents.
B.
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder.
C.
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents.
D.
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Specifications, or other documents (including copies or 
electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants.
3.02
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies
A.
Reporting Discrepancies:
1.
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01.
67 of 517

--- page 68 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 5 of 96
3.
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof.
B.
Resolving Discrepancies:
1.
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and:
a.
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or
b.
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
2.
When a conflict exists between specifications or between specifications and details, the 
more stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two 
specifications, the more stringent of the two shall prevail.
3.
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence: 
a.
Change Order.
b.
Addenda.
c.
Contract.
d.
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
e.
Owner Standard Specifications.
f.
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document).
g.
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
h.
Notice to Bidder.
i.
Instruction to Bidder.
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES
4.01
Contract Times
A.
The Work will be substantially completed on or before March 1, 2024 and completed and 
ready for final payment on or before June 30, 2025.
68 of 517

--- page 69 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 6 of 96
4.02
Liquidated Damages
A.
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $500 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $500 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion.
4.03
Delays in Contractor’s Progress
A.
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times.
B.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers.
C.
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times.
D.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers.
4.04
Progress Schedules
A.
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR.
B.
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule.
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE
5.01
Payment
A.
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand dollars ($830,000.00) for all Work.
B.
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
69 of 517

--- page 70 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 7 of 96
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR.
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
6.01
Bonds
A.
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due.
B.
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore
6.02
Insurance
A.
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B.
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES
7.01
Supervision and Superintendence
A.
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction.
B.
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances.
C.
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site.
D.
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday.
70 of 517

--- page 71 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 8 of 96
7.02
Other Work at the Site
A.
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site.
7.03
Services, Materials, and Equipment
A.
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents.
B.
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents.
7.04
Subcontractors and Suppliers
A.
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7. 
7.05
Quality Management
A.
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents.
7.06
Licenses, Fees and Permits
A.
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others.
B.
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents.
7.07
Laws and Regulations; Taxes
A.
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations.
B.
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations.
C.
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations.
71 of 517

--- page 72 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 9 of 96
D.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties. 
E.
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.  
F.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.  
G.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced.
H.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.  
I.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.  
J.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.  
K.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.  
L.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.  
72 of 517

--- page 73 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 10 of 96
M.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.  
N.
In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  
7.08
Record Documents
A.
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Specifications, Addenda, Change 
Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and clarifications, and 
approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall annotate them to show 
changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these record documents to RPR 
upon completion of the Work.
7.09
Safety and Protection
A.
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work.
B.
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to:
1.
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work;
2.
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and
3.
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction.
C.
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor).
D.
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations.
E.
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued.
73 of 517

--- page 74 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 11 of 96
7.10
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals
A.
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information.
B.
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal.
C.
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents.
D.
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples.
E.
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs.
F.
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions.
G.
Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals.
H.
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents.
7.11
Warranties and Guarantees
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee.
7.12
Correction Period
A.
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work.
7.13
Indemnification
A.
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
74 of 517

--- page 75 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 12 of 96
liability, damage, or expense arising from the active negligence, sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the Owner.
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES
8.01
Owner’s Responsibilities
A.
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR.
B.
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract.
C.
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project.
D.
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination.
E.
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes.
F.
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
G.
While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed.
H.
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor.
I.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract. 
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION
9.01
RPR’s Status
A.
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract.
B.
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them.
C.
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work.
75 of 517

--- page 76 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 13 of 96
D.
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents.
E.
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work.
F.
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK
10.01
Authority to Change the Work
A.
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work.
10.02
Change Orders
A.
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering:
1.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive;
2.
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Specifications, or 
otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and
3.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12.
B.
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change.
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS
11.01
Differing Conditions Process
A.
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
76 of 517

--- page 77 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 14 of 96
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so.
B.
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly:
1.
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question;
2.
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition;
3.
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein;
4.
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor;
5.
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Specifications; and
6.
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
C.
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s written 
findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part.
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
12.01
Claims Process
A.
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto.
B.
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party.
C.
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied.
D.
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process.
12.02
Mediation
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
77 of 517

--- page 78 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 15 of 96
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties.
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK
13.01
Tests and Inspections
A.
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access.
B.
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests.
C.
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense.
13.02
Defective Work
A.
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective.
B.
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work.
C.
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor.
D.
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work.
E.
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work.
F.
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated.
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
14.01
Progress Payments
A.
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress.
14.02
Applications for Payments:
A.
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
78 of 517

--- page 79 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 16 of 96
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment.
B.
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment.
14.03
Retainage
A.
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete.
14.04
Review of Applications
A.
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment.
B.
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement.
C.
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work.
14.05
Contractor’s Warranty of Title
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner.
14.06
Substantial Completion
A.
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
B.
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor.
C.
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
79 of 517

--- page 80 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 17 of 96
14.07
Final Inspection
A.
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies.
14.08
Final Payment
A.
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents.
B.
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by:
1.
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents;
2.
Consent of the surety to final payment;
3.
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment;
4.
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and
5.
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work.
C.
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment.
14.09
Waiver of Claims
A.
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor.
B.
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted.
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION
15.01
Owner May Suspend Work
A.
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension.
15.02
Owner May Terminate for Cause
A.
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause.
80 of 517

--- page 81 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 18 of 96
B.
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to:
1.
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and
2.
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond.
C.
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure.
D.
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient.
E.
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner.
15.03
Owner May Terminate for Convenience
A.
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items:
1.
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work;
2.
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and
3.
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal.
B.
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination.
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
16.01
Contractor Representations
A.
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract:
1.
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
81 of 517

--- page 82 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 19 of 96
3.
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
4.
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and specifications identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to 
the effect of such information, observations, and documents on:
a.
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work;
b.
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and
c.
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs.
5.
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract.
6.
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.
7.
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor.
8.
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work.
9.
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS
17.01
Cumulative Remedies
A.
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply.
17.02
Limitation of Damages
A.
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project.
82 of 517

--- page 83 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 20 of 96
17.03
No Waiver
A.
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract.
17.04
Survival of Obligations
A.
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor.
17.05
Contractor’s Certifications
A.
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract.
17.06
Controlling Law and Venue
A.
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
17.07
Notices
A.
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract.
17.08
No Partnership or Agency
A.
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
17.09
Severability
A.
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
17.10
Waiver
A.
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives. 
83 of 517

--- page 84 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 21 of 96
17.11
Warranty
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract.
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract).
OWNER:  City of San Mateo
CONTRACTOR:  On Point Construction
By:
Brad B. Underwood
By:
Emmanel Koutantos
Title:
Public Works Director
Title:
President
By:
Title:
Address for giving notices:
330 West 20th Avenue
322 Lang Road
San Mateo, CA  94403
Burlingame, CA 94010
License No.:
949627
(where applicable)
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen, Asst. City Attorney
84 of 517

--- page 85 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF WORK
85 of 517

--- page 86 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 23
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
ARTICLE 1 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
1.01
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise 
from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
1.02
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
A.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, 
bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per 
occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be 
twice the required occurrence limit.  
B.
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
C.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
D.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
E.
Surety Bonds as described below.
F.
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
G.
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
1.03
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained 
by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of 
insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
1.04
Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the 
option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-
insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the 
Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses 
and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall 
86 of 517

--- page 87 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 24
provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the 
named insured or City.
ARTICLE 2 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS 
2.01
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
A.
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or 
both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
B.
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its 
officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
C.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the City.
2.02
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
A.
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest may 
appear.
B.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be 
obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or 
adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property 
Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, 
machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of 
the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the City’s site.
2.03
Claims Made Policies
A.
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1.
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of 
the contract or the beginning of contract work.
2.
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
3.
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy 
form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the 
Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
87 of 517

--- page 88 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 25
4.
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review. 
5.
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution 
shall include microbial matter, including mold. 
2.04
Acceptability of Insurers 
A.
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
2.05
Waiver of Subrogation 
A.
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may 
acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City for all 
work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
2.06
Verification of Coverage 
A.
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy 
listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain the 
required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to 
provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, at any time.
2.07
Subcontractors 
A.
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
2.08
Surety Bonds. 
A.
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1.
Performance Bond
2.
Payment Bond
3.
Maintenance Bond
B.
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If 
the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not 
necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed 
by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and 
secured through an authorized agent with an office in California.
88 of 517

--- page 89 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 26
2.09
Special Risks or Circumstances.  
A.
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
89 of 517

--- page 90 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 27
EXHIBIT C
SPECIFICATIONS
City of San Mateo
Contract Book – Volume 2
2nd and El Camino Garage
Elevator Modernization 
City Project No. 46F035
Technical Specifications
October 26, 2023
90 of 517

--- page 91 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 28
SECTION 14250 – ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
PART 1 – GENERAL 
1.1
WORK INCLUDED
A.
Improve one (1) hydraulic elevator at 2nd and El Camino Real Parking Garage, 95 S. El Camino 
Real, San Mateo, CA 94401.
B.
All engineering, equipment, labor, and permits required to satisfactorily complete elevator 
modernization required by Contract Documents.
C.
Applicable conditions of General, Special, and Supplemental Conditions and all sections listed in 
Contract Documents.
D.
Cartage and Hoisting: All required staging, hoisting and movement to, on and from the site 
including new equipment, reused equipment, or dismantling and removal of existing 
equipment.
E.
Provide new equipment unless equipment is specifically identified as “Retain,” or “Refurbish.”
F.
Removal and lawful disposal of any existing equipment not specifically being re-used in the 
elevator modernization.
   1.2         RELATED WORK BY CONTRACTOR 
A.
Hoistway and Pit:
1.
Wall blockouts and fire rated closure for control and signal fixture boxes which 
penetrate walls.
2.
Cutting and patching walls and floors.
3.
Opening in hoistway wall or pit wall for hydraulic piping. Trench and back fill under- 
ground piping.
4.
Pit access stationary ladder for each elevator. Retractable ladder if provided shall 
include an electrical contact conforming to ASME A17.1, Rule 2.2.2.4.2.7.
5.
Protect car enclosure, hoistway entrance assemblies, and special metal finishes 
from damage.
6.
Paint pit floor. Floors to be painted deck gray. Floor paint to be high impact 
resistant epoxy based.
7.
Hole in pit floor, 3'-0" square, to facilitate installation of protective secondary 
containment casing by Elevator Contractor. Fill hole with concrete after jack installation. 
Seal pit with non-permeable epoxy.
91 of 517

--- page 92 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 29
B.
Machine Room and Machinery Spaces:
1.
Ventilation and heating. Maintain minimum temperature of 55° F, maximum 90° F. 
Maintain maximum 80% relative humidity, non-condensing.
2.
Paint floor. Floors to be painted deck gray. Floor paint to be high impact resistant 
epoxy based.
3.
Fire sprinkler removal or installation where required.
4.
Coordinate secondary containment of pump unit oil reservoir with elevator contractor.
C.
Electrical Service, Conductors and Devices:
1.
Lighting and GFCI convenience outlets in pit, machine room, and overhead machinery 
spaces. Provide one additional non-GFCI convenience outlet in pit for sump pump and 
oil return pump.
2.
Three-phase mainline copper power feeder with true earthen grounding to terminals of 
each elevator controller in the machine room with protected, lockable “open” 
disconnect- ing means with auxiliary contacts to allow Elevator Contractor to 
electronically interlock battery power lowering unit.
3.
Provide lighting fixtures in machine room that are above existing controllers to 
provide 19 fc of illumination throughout the machine room.
4.
Replace existing unguarded lighting in each pit with guarded fluorescent lighting to 
pro- vide 10 fc of illumination throughout the pit. Lighting should be mounted lower 
than the current position so that the new extended 48" toe guard installed on the 
elevator cabs does not strike the new lighting. Install 4’ dual bulb led light.
5.
Install GFCI convenience outlets in pit and machine room.
6.
Single-phase copper power feeder to each elevator controller for car lighting and 
exhaust blower with individual protected, lockable “open” disconnecting means located 
in ma- chine room.
7.
Emergency telephone line to designated elevator control panel in elevator machine room.
8.
Fire alarm initiating devices in each elevator lobby for each group of elevators or single 
elevator and each machine room to initiate firefighters’ return feature. Device at top of 
hoistway if sprinklered. Provide alarm initiating signal wiring from hoistway or machine 
room connection point to elevator controller terminals. Device in machine room and at 
top of hoistway to provide signal for general alarm and discrete signal for Phase II fire- 
fighters’ operation.
9.
Temporary power and illumination to install, test, and adjust elevator equipment.
10.
Means to automatically disconnect power to affected elevator pump unit and 
controller prior to activation of machine room fire sprinkler system and/or hoistway 
fire sprinkler system. Manual shut-off means shall be located outside bounds of 
machine room.
11.
When sprinklers are provided in the hoistway all electrical equipment located less than 
4'- 0" above the pit floor shall be identified for use in wet locations. Exception: seismic 
pro- tection devices.
12.
Single-phase power feeders to firefighters’ control panel.
13.
Single-phase power feeder to elevator intercom amplifier in the elevator machine room.
92 of 517

--- page 93 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 30
1.3
DEFINITIONS
A.
Terms used are defined in the latest edition of the Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, 
ASME A17.1.
B.
Reference to a device or a part of the equipment applies to the number of devices or parts 
required to complete the installation.
C.
The term “Purchaser” shall refer to the Owner.
D.
Provisions of this specification are applicable to all elevators unless identified otherwise.
1.4
QUALITY ASSURANCE
A.
Qualified and Approved Contractors: Alternate Contractors must receive approval of Purchaser 
and or Consultant at least 14 calendar days prior to bid date.
1.
Control Systems: OEM, Motion Control Engineering (MCE), Smartrise Engineering, 
Elevator Controls.
2.
Hydraulic Power Unit and Accessories: OEM, MEI, Canton.
3.
Door Operator Equipment: ECI VF2500, GAL MOVFR, OEM linear.
4.
Signal Fixtures: Innovation Industries, OEM.
B.
Warranty:
1.
Contractor shall warrant the equipment installed under the specifications against defect 
in material and quality of installation and correct any defects, unless due to unordinary 
wear and tear or improper use or care by Purchaser.
a.
Defective is defined to include, but not limited to; operational system failures, car 
performance, unusual degradation of materials or finishes, unsafe conditions, the 
need for excessive maintenance, unusual wear, abnormal noise or vibration, and 
related unsatisfactory conditions.
b.
Retained Equipment: All retained equipment and components shall be checked and 
cleaned or repaired to be suitable for reuse and covered under preventative 
maintenance by the Contractor. All retained equipment shall integrate with newly 
installed systems.
c.
Modify or adjust equipment to meet performance requirements of Contract 
Documents.
1.5
APPLICABLE CODES
A.
Work specified by the Contract Documents shall be in compliance with applicable Federal, State, 
and municipal codes and ordinances in effect at the time of Contract execution. Requirements 
of the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be completed by the Contractor and Subcontractors. 
The entire alteration, when completed shall Comply with most stringent applicable provisions 
93 of 517

--- page 94 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 31
of following Codes, laws, and/or Authorities, including revisions and changes in effect:
1.
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, ASME A17.1
2.
Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving Walks, ASME A17.2
3.
Elevator and Escalator Electrical Equipment, ASME A17.5
4.
National Electrical Code, NFPA 70
5.
Americans with Disabilities Act, ADA
6.
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard, UFAS
7.
Local Fire Authority
8.
Requirements of most stringent provision of local applicable building code within 
the governing jurisdiction.
9.
Life Safety Code, NFPA 101.
10.
California Accessibility Standards, Title 24 Chapter 11b.
11.
California Code of Regulations Title 8 and California Building Code Title 24
B.
Abbreviated symbols
AHJ
Authority having Jurisdiction
AIA
American Institute of Architects
ANSI
American National Standards Institute
ASME
American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ASTM
American Society for Testing and Materials
AWS
American Welding Society
IBC
International Building Code
IEEE
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
NEC
National Electric Code
NEMA
National Electrical Manufacturers Association
NFPA
National Fire Protections Agency
OSHA
Occupational Safety and Health Act
1.6
DOCUMENT AND SITE VERIFICATION
A.
Submission of a bid will be considered evidence that the bidder has made themselves fully aware 
of the Contract requirements, scope of work, building access, related work required by other 
trades, existing equipment, as well as any requirements of the local authority, manpower 
requirements and has made proper allowance for all contingencies.
B.
Any discrepancies, omissions or items requiring clarification found by bidders in the Contract 
Documents shall be submitted in writing directly to the Consultant for clarification. All bidders 
will be notified of clarifications in writing.
94 of 517

--- page 95 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 32
C.
Contractor shall be responsible for verifying all dimensions, data and site conditions.
1.7
SUBMITTALS
A.
Prior to beginning equipment fabrication, submit shop drawings and required material samples 
for review.  Allow 15 days for response to initial submittal and include the following:
1.
Power Confirmation Information:  Design for existing conditions.
2.
Fixture drawings.
B.
Acknowledge and/or respond to review comments within 10 calendar days of return. 
Incorporate required changes so that delivery and installation schedules are not affected.
95 of 517

--- page 96 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 33
C.
Approval of the drawings and cuts by Owner’s designee or Consultant shall be for general 
arrangement only and does not include measurements which are the Contractor’s responsibility 
or approval of variations from the contract documents required by the AHJ.
D.
Submittal review shall not be construed as an indication that submittal is correct or suitable, or 
that the work represented by submittal complies with the Contract Documents.
1.8
PERMIT, TEST AND INSPECTION
A.
Obtain and pay for permit, license, and inspection fee necessary to complete installation.
B.
Perform test required by Governing Authority in accordance with procedure described in ASME 
A17.2 Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving Walks in the presence of 
Authorized Representative.
C.
Supply personnel and equipment for test and final review by Consultant.
1.9
MAINTENANCE
A.
Warranty Maintenance:
1.
Provide preventive maintenance and 24-hour emergency callback service for one year 
commencing on date of final acceptance by Purchaser. Final acceptance shall be in writing 
and after the final inspection is turned over by the AHJ. Monthly, examine, adjust, clean, 
and lubricate all equipment. Repair or replace defective parts using parts produced by the 
Contractor of installed equipment. Maintain elevator machine room, hoistway, and pit in 
clean condition.
2.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
3.
The warranty maintenance period specified above shall be extended one (1) month for 
each three (3) month period in which equipment related failures average more than .25 
per unit per month.
4.
Purchaser retains the option to delete cost of warranty maintenance from new equipment 
contract and remit twelve (12) equal installments directly to Contractor during period in 
which maintenance is being performed.
5.
The Elevator Contractor shall contact ownership approximately two months prior to the 
end of the contract term. The Owner will make a thorough maintenance inspection of all 
elevators covered under the contract. At the conclusion of this inspection, the Owner shall 
give the Contractor written notice of any deficiencies found. The contractor shall be 
responsible for correction of these deficiencies within thirty days after receipt of such 
notice.
B.
Interim Maintenance:   
1.
Provide pro-active preventive maintenance service with 24-hour service on elevators 
described herein for a period from notice to proceed, verbal or written, until each unit is 
removed from building service for modernization. 24-hour service begins when the first 
car is removed from service in occupied buildings. In addition, furnish interim preventive 
96 of 517

--- page 97 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 34
maintenance on completed units until the modernization of each group of elevators is 
complete and one-year warranty maintenance, defined in Item 1.02 below, is 
commenced. Cost of interim maintenance shall not be included as part of modernization 
quotation. Indicate costs on a per-unit basis for interim maintenance as requested on 
quotation form.
Costs for interim maintenance shall be paid by Purchaser separately and monthly based 
upon the number of units in service. Perform interim maintenance based upon terms and 
conditions of owners contract.
2.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
3.
    Provide interim maintenance in accordance with City of San Mateo contract  
C.
Preventive Maintenance 
1.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
2.
Maintenance shall include systematic examination, adjustment and lubrication of all 
equipment, including repair and replacement of electrical and mechanical parts of the 
system.
3.
Adequate stock of spare parts for emergency callbacks shall be stored onsite.
4.
Additional parts or equipment required for maintenance and repair of the system shall be 
available within 4 hours of the project site. Other items not normally stocked must be 
available within 24 hours for delivery. Overnight charges are the responsibility of the 
Contractor.
.
5.
Provide preventive maintenance in accordance with City of San Mateo contract.
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.1
SUMMARY
A.
Elevator 1
B.
Provide New, Alter, or Retain as required below.
State ID: elev. 1: 59503
R = Retain 
N = New 
A = Alter
N/A = Not Applicable
SPEED:
150 FPM
R
CAPACITY:
2500 lbs.
R
ENTRANCE SIZE:
42”x 84” SSSO
R
STOPS/LANDINGS
5
R
97 of 517

--- page 98 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 35
CONTROLS:
MCE 1000
N
ENCODER:
Digital
N
PUMP UNIT:
Submersible
N
HOISTWAY EQUIPMENT 
(BUFFERS AND PIT EQUIPMENT):
R/N
CAR SLING:
R
ROLLER GUIDES:
N
PLATFORM:
R
CAR DOOR OPERATOR:
N
CAR DOOR EQUIPMENT:
N
RAILS/SUPPORTS:
R
HOISTWAY DOOR EQUIPMENT:
N
HOISTWAY ENTRANCE FRAMES:
R
HOISTWAY DOOR PANELS:
R
HOISTWAY DOOR SILLS:
R
HOISTWAY WIRING TRAVELING 
CABLES:
N
HYDRAULIC CYLINDER
N
CAR OPERATING PANELS:
N
HALL PUSHBUTTONS:
N
HALL LANTERNS:
N/A
CAR POSITION INDICATORS:
N
CAB INTERIOR FINISHES:
N
MACHINE ROOM:
A
MACHINE ROOM LIGHTING:
N
MACHINE ROOM OUTLETS:
N
MACHINE ROOM ACCESS:
R
MACHINE DISCONNECT SWITCH:
N
COOLING/HEATING MACHINE 
ROOM:
R
PIT LIGHTING:
N
PIT OUTLETS:
N
98 of 517

--- page 99 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 36
HOISTWAY VENTING:
R
2.2
MATERIALS
A.
Steel:
1.
Sheet   Steel   (Furniture   Steel   for  Exposed  Work):
Stretcher-leveled,  cold-
rolled, commercial quality carbon steel, complying with ASTM A366, matte finish.
2.
Sheet Steel (for Unexposed Work): Hot-rolled, commercial quality carbon steel, pickled 
and oiled, complying with ASTM A568/A568M-03.
3.
Structural Steel Shapes and Plates:  ASTM A36.
B.
Stainless Steel: Type 316, or approved equal; complying with ASTM A240, with standard 
tempers and hardness required for fabrication, strength and durability.  Apply mechanical 
finish on fabricated work in the locations shown or specified, (Federal Standard and NAAMM 
nomenclature).  Protect with adhesive paper covering.
1.
Satin: Directional polish finish (US 32D). Graining directions as shown or, if not shown, in 
longest dimension.
C.
Aluminum:  Extrusions per ASTM B221; sheet and plate per ASTM B209.
D.
Plastic Laminate: ASTM E84 Class A and NEMA LD3.1, Fire-Rated Grade (GP-50), Type 7, 0.050” 
±.005” thick, color and texture as follows;
1.
Exposed Surfaces:  Color and texture selected by Owner’s Representative.
2.
Concealed Surfaces:  Contractor’s standard color and finish.
E.
Paint: Clean exposed metal parts and assemblies of oil, grease, scale, and other foreign matter 
and factory paint one shop coat of standard rust-resistant primer. After erection, provide one 
finish coat of industrial enamel paint.
F.
Glass: Laminated safety glass, minimum 9/16” thick, conforming to ANSI Z97.1 and CPSC 16 
CFR Part 1201.
2.3
CAR AND GROUP PERFORMANCE
A.
Speed:  within ± 10% of contract speed under any loading condition.
B.
Leveling:  within ±1/4" under any loading condition.
C.
Door Opening Time:  From start of opening to fully open:
1.
Car 1: 3.1 seconds.
D.
Door Closing Time:  From start of closing to fully closed:
1.
Car 1: 4.0 seconds.
E.
Car Floor-to-Floor Performance Time: From start of doors closing until doors are 3/4 open (1/2 
99 of 517

--- page 100 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 37
open for side opening doors) and car level and stopped at next successive floor under any loading 
condition or travel direction (132” typical floor height):
1.
Car 1: 14.1 seconds.
F.
Car Ride Quality:
1.
Horizontal acceleration within car during all riding and door operating conditions. Not 
more than 20 mg peak to peak (adjacent peaks) in the 1 - 10 Hz range.
2.
Acceleration and Deceleration: Smooth constant and not less than 3 feet/second² with 
an initial ramp between 0.5 and 0.75 second.
3.
Sustained Jerk:  Not less than 6 feet/second³.
G.
Noise:
1.
Measured noise level of elevator equipment during operation shall not the following:
a.
Car at rest with doors closed, fan running - 55 dba.
b.
Door in operation - 60 dba.
H.
Vibration:
1.
Isolate power unit, controller, oil supply lines and their supports from the building. 
Electrically isolate the equipment from the building power supply and to each other to 
reduce the potential noise and vibrations transmitted to adjacent occupants.
2.4
OPERATION Elevator 1  
A.
Selective Collective
1.
Approved microprocessor-based, car and motion control systems as follows:
a.
Kone: Resolve
b.
Otis: Elevonic
c.
Schindler 330A
d.
Mitsubishi: AI-2100N
e.
TKE: TAC 32
f.
MCE: HMC
g.
Smartrise
2.
Provide selective collection operation operating from a single hall riser.
3.
Do not reverse car direction until all car calls have been answered.
4.
Slow car and stop automatically at floors corresponding to registered calls, in the order in 
which they are approached in either direction of travel. As slowdown is initiated for a hall 
call, automatically cancel hall call. Cancel car calls in the same manner. Hold car at arrival 
floor an adjustable time interval to allow passenger transfer.
5.
Answer calls corresponding to direction in which car is traveling unless call in the opposite 
direction of the call registered.
6.
Illuminate pushbutton to visually indicate call registration.
7.
Provide zone programming features to park car at the designated landing selected by 
the Owner.
B.
Low Oil Control: in the event oil levels is insufficient for travel to the top floor, provide controls 
to return elevator to the main level and park until oil is added.
100 of 517

--- page 101 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 38
C.
Independent Service: Provide controls for operation of each car from its pushbuttons only. Close 
doors by constant pressure on desired destination floor button or door close button. Open doors 
automatically upon arrival at selected floor.
D.
Firefighters’ Service:  Provide equipment and operation in accordance with Code requirements.
E.
Automatic Car Stopping Zone: Stop car within 1/4" above or below the landing sill. Maintain 
stopping zone regardless of load in car or direction of travel.
F.
Motion Control: AC type with unit valve suitable for operation specified and capable of providing 
smooth, comfortable car acceleration and retardation. Limit the difference in car speed between 
full load and no load to not more than ±10% of the contract speed in either direction of travel.
G.
Standby Lighting and Alarm: Car mounted battery unit with solid-state charger to operate alarm 
bell and car emergency lighting. Battery to be rechargeable with minimum five-year life 
expectancy. Include required transformer. Provide constant pressure test button in service 
compartment of car operating panel. Provide lighting integral with portion of normal car lighting 
system.
H.
Battery Lowering Device:
1.
Upon loss of normal power, provide controls to automatically lower the cars to the nearest 
lower landing. Upon arrival at the nearest landing, the elevator doors shall open 
automatically and remain open until regular door time has expired. The elevator shall then 
become deactivated. The standby power source shall be provided via 12 volt D.C. battery 
units installed in machine room, including solid-state charger and testing means mounted 
in a common metal container. Battery to be rechargeable lead acid or nickel cadmium with 
a ten-year life expectancy.
2.
Upon restoration of normal power, the elevator shall automatically resume normal 
operation.
I.
Door Operation: Automatically open doors when car arrives at main floor. At expiration of 
normal dwell time, close doors. Provide heavy door/variable air pressure feature for consistent 
specified door operation within appropriate speed and inertia limits. Car and hoistway doors shall 
be arranged to operate in unison without excessive noise or slamming in either direction of travel.
1.
Door opening speeds of 1.5 feet per second shall be provided in conjunction with closing 
speeds of 1.0 feet per second in accordance with governing code.
a.
Door operation shall commence as the car stops level at the floor. Pre-door opening 
shall not be permitted.
b.
The force necessary to prevent closing of the car and hoistway door from rest shall 
not exceed 30 lb. This force shall be measured on the leading edge of the door with 
the door at any point between one third and two thirds of its travel.
c.
The operation of the door protective device by the interruption during the close cycle 
shall cause the immediate reversing of the doors to the fully open position.
d.
The door closing cycle shall be arranged so that, in the event the door protective 
devices become continually obstructed after the normal door open dwell time has 
101 of 517

--- page 102 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 39
expired, and following a time interval of approximately thirty (30) seconds 
(adjustable), a warning tone shall sound and the door closing cycle shall commence 
at reduced speed and torque per applicable Code requirements.
J.
Car Light and Fran Timer: Provide necessary logic and power relay to allow car lights and fan to 
turn off.
2.5
MACHINE ROOM EQUIPMENT
A.
Pump Unit:
1.
Provide a new pump unit with oil heater.
2.
Provide an adjustable valve capable of making adjustment without removal from the oil 
line with manual lowering.
3.
Provide electronic soft start, design unit for 80 upstarts/hour.
4.
Provide a heavy duty muffler to reduce noise and vibration.
5.
Provide tank shut off valve for isolating oil in the pump unit.
6.
Replace all Victaulic gaskets in retained lines and fittings.
B.
Encoder: Provide new solid state encoder, driven by the elevator car to provide absolute digital 
hoistway position to elevator controller.
1.
Update car position at each floor so that movement to a terminal landing or other 
specific floor is not necessary to establish car position.
2.
Retain last known position in the event of power loss and automatically restore upon 
return of normal power. Include vanes and sensors to establish leveling and floor zones.
C.
Controller: New microprocessor based, UL/CSA labeled.
1.
Compartment: Provide listed enclosure, mounted on power unit or machine room wall 
with latching doors and means to prevent overheating.
2.
Provide a solid-state starter.
3.
Relay Design: Provide proven design with material for reliable operation without 
overheating or excessive wear. Provide wiping action and means to prevent sticking due 
to fusion. Contacts carrying high inductive currents shall be provided with arc deflectors 
or suppressors.
4.
The manufacturer’s standard on-board “LCD” display shall be incorporated on the main 
processor board and/or otherwise incorporated in the controller cabinet.
5.
Microprocessor-Related Hardware
a.
Provide power supplies with noise suppression devices.
b.
Isolate inputs from external devices.
c.
Design control circuits with adequate grounding.
d.
Safety circuits shall meet all requirements of the AHJ.
e.
System shall automatically restart when power is restored.
6.
Wiring: CSA labeled copper for factory wiring. Route all wiring interconnections and 
securely attach wiring connections to studs or terminals.
7.
Permanently label all components and wiring.
8.
Provide elevator designation identification numbers on controller enclosures.
D.
Muffler: Provide in discharge oil line near pump unit. Design shall dampen and absorb 
102 of 517

--- page 103 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 40
pulsation and noise in the flow of hydraulic fluid.
E.
Piping and Oil: Provide piping, connections and oil for the system. Buried piping shall be 
secondarily contained with watertight Schedule 40 PVC sleeves between elevator machine room 
and pit. A minimum of two sound isolation couplings shall be provided between the pump unit 
and oil line and the oil line and jack unit. Provide isolated pipe stands or hangers as required.
F.
Shutoff Valve: Manual valve in line adjacent to pump unit. Provide second valve in pit adjacent 
to jack unit.
2.6
HOISTWAY EQUIPMENT
A.
Guide Rails: Retain guide rails in place. Inspect rails, brackets and fishplates to determine if 
unfavorable conditions exist.
1.
Clean rails and brackets.  Remove rust.
2.
Check all rail and bracket fastenings and tighten.
B.
Buffers:  Retain existing.
1.
Clean and paint. Label pit equipment.
C.
Buffers: Provide new spring type with blocking and support channels.
D.
Hydraulic Jack Assembly: Retain and refurbish existing.
1.
Cylinder: Retain existing and repack. Provide automatic scavenger pump to collect oil 
at cylinder head and return automatically to oil reservoir. Provide cylinder stabilizer 
bracketing between guide rails as required.
2.
Plunger: Retain existing. Isolate plunger from car frame.
E.
Hydraulic Jack Assembly: New
1.
Cylinder: Seamless steel pipe. Design head to receive unit-type packing and provide 
means to collect oil at cylinder head and return automatically to oil reservoir. Provide sec- 
ondary containment/cylinder protection. Provide cylinder stabilizer bracketing between 
guide rails as required.
2.
Plunger: Single stage. Polished seamless steel tubing or pipe. If plunger length exceeds 
24", provide two or more sections not exceeding 16" in length, or coordinate installation 
of longer unit at the jobsite. Join sections by internal threaded couplings. Multiple section 
jack units shall be factory polished while assembled and marked for proper future reas- 
sembly. Isolate plunger from car frame.
F.
Jack Support and Fluid Shut-Off Valve: Retain existing steel pit channels to support jack assembly 
and transmit loads to building structure. Provide intermediate stabilizers as required. Provide 
manual on/off valve in oil line adjacent to pump unit and jack unit in pit.
G.
Jack Support: Provide steel pit channels to support jack assembly and transmit loads to building 
structure. Provide intermediate stabilizers as required.
H.
Overspeed Valve: Provide a pressure sensitive, mechanically-actuated seismic safety valve, 
conforming to ASME A17.1. Connect valve directly to jack assembly inlet.
103 of 517

--- page 104 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 41
I.
Terminal Stopping:  Provide required normal and final devices.
J.
Electrical Wiring and Wiring Connections:
1.
All wiring shall be stranded copper conductors, manufactured in compliance with 
ANSI/ASTM B174-71 and UL 62requirements, and polyvinyl chloride insulation complying 
with ETT requirements of UL 62 and Article 400 of the National Electric Code.
2.
Electrical wiring provided for hoistway interlock shall be of a flame retardant type, capable 
of withstanding temperatures of at least 392 degrees Fahrenheit. Conductors shall be Type 
SF or equivalent.
3.
Conductors  and  Connections:
Copper  throughout  with  individual  wires  coded  and 
connections on identified studs or terminal blocks.
4.
Provide 20% spare conductors throughout.
5.
Provide four pairs of spare shielded communication wires in addition to those required to 
connect specified items.  Tag spares in machine room.
6.
Conduit: Painted or galvanized steel conduit, EMT or duct. Conduit size, 1/2” minimum. 
Flexible heavy-duty service cord may be used between fixed car wiring and car door 
switches for door protective devices.
7.
Traveling Cables: Flame and moisture-resistant outer cover. Install traveling to prevent 
twisting and rubbing against hoistway or equipment within hoistway.
8.
Auxiliary Wiring:  Connect all devices in each car controller in machine room.
K.
Hoistway Entrance Equipment: Retain and refurbish existing entrances. Refurbish/replace and 
adjust assemblies to ensure smooth and quiet mechanical open and close of doors.
1.
Door Hangers and Rollers: provide new hangers and rollers.
2.
Door Track: Provide new tracks.
3.
Door Safety Retainers: provide safety retainers as required by ASME A17.1.
4.
Door Interlocks: Replace all interlocks and relating equipment.
5.
Door Closers:  Provide new door closing equipment.
L.
Hoistway Access Switches: Provide new switch at top and bottom floors.
M.
Floor Numbers: Stencil paint 4" high floor designations in contrasting color on inside face of 
hoistway doors or hoistway fascia in location visible from within car.
2.7
HOISTWAY ENTRANCES
A.
Frames: Retain existing. Fix entrance at lobby. Provide Arabic floor designation/Braille plates, 
centered at 60" above finished floor, on both side jambs of all entrances
B.
Door Panels:  Retain existing.  Provide new gibs and fire tabs.
C.
Sight Guards:  Retain existing.  Replace damaged astragals.
D.
Sills:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all sill fastenings.
E.
Sill Supports:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
104 of 517

--- page 105 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 42
F.
Fascia, Toe Guards and Hanger Covers: Retain existing. Provide as required where damaged or 
missing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
G.
Struts and Headers:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
2.8
CAR EQUIPMENT
A.
Frame: Retain Existing. Check and tighten all fastenings. Individual car frame members, platform 
isolation framework, door operator support structure, related bracing and hardware shall be 
inspected for any indication of damage or distortion
B.
Platform:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
C.
Platform Apron:  Provide new extended platform apron to meet Code.
D.
Guide Shoes: Provide new. Roller type with three or more spring dampened, sound-deadening 
rollers per shoe and seismic retainer plates.
E.
Finish Floor Covering:
1.
Coordinate with Owner’s installer if new finish floor coverings are selected.
F.
Sills:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
G.
Doors: Provide new 16-gauge steel, sandwich construction without binder angles. Provide a 
minimum of two (2) gibs per panel. Construct door panels with interlocking, stiffening ribs. 
Stainless steel #4 metal cladding shall wrap around leading and trailing edge of panel and return 
a minimum of 1/2" on rear side of leading edge of panel.
H.
Door Hangers and Rollers: Provide new. Two-point hanger roller with polyurethane roller 
surface and suspension with eccentric upthrust roller adjustment.
I.
Door Track:  Provide new steel track with smooth roller contact surface.
J.
Door Header: Provide a new door header configured for new door operator with stiffening 
flanges.
K.
Door Electrical Contact:  Provide new electrical contact.
L.
Door Clutch: Provide a new heavy-duty clutch, linkage arms and all relating components to 
provide quiet door operation. Design clutch so car doors can be closed, while hoistway doors 
remain open.
M.
Restricted Opening Device: Prevent car door opening outside the unlocking zone without plunger 
restrictor.
N.
Door Operator: Provide a heavy-duty door operator on top of the elevator car enclosure for power 
105 of 517

--- page 106 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 43
opening and closing of the cab and hoistway entrance door panels. Provide solid-state door control 
with closed loop programmable circuitry. Provide consistent regardless of door weight or 
hoistway air pressure stack effect or varying conditions. Provide door opening speed  averaging
1.5 feet per second and door closing speed of 1.0 feet per second. The door shall operate smoothly 
without a slam or abrupt motion in both the opening and closing cycle directions.
O.
Reduce the closing speed as required to limit kinetic energy of closing doors to within values 
permitted by ASME A17.1 as may be adopted and/or modified by the AHJ.
P.
Door Reopening Device:
1.
Infrared Reopening Device: Provide infra-red reopening device the entire opening of the 
door. In event of device failure, provide for automatic shutdown of car at floor level with 
doors open.
2.
Nudging Operation: Provide nudging to limit speed and torque in conjunction with door 
close signaling/closing and timing devices as permitted by ASME A17.1 as may be adopted 
and/or modified by the AHJ. Nudging shall be initiated by the signal control system and not 
from the door protective device.
3.
Interrupted Beam Time: When reopening device is interrupted during initial door opening, 
hold door open a minimum of 3.0 seconds. When reopening device is interrupted after the 
initial 3.0 second hold open time, reduce time doors remain open to an adjustable time of 
approximately 1.0 - 1.5 seconds after beams are reestablished.
4.
Door Timing: Adjust doors remain open after stopping in response to calls with the 
following:
a.
Car Call:  Car door hold open time adjusted between 3.0 and 5.0 seconds.
b.
Hall Call:  Hall door hold open time adjusted between 5.0 and 8.0 seconds.
Q.
Car Operating Panel:
1.
Provide one stainless car operating panel with vandal resistant operating fixtures mounted 
behind the car stationary front return panel. Faceplate shall be hinged and constructed of 
satin finish stainless steel.
2.
Provide Braille to the left of operating buttons. Designations minimum of 5/8” high, 0.03” 
raised and stud mounted.
3.
Provide “star” at main egress landing.
4.
Configure plates per local building code accessibility standards including Braille.
5.
Provide minimum 3/4" diameter raised floor pushbuttons which illuminate to indicate call 
registration.
6.
Provide alarm button to ring bell located on car control panel with illumination.
7.
Provide keyed stop switch in locked car service compartment.
8.
Provide “door open” button.
9.
Provide “door close” button engage door close cycle.
10.
Provide firefighters’ Phase II key switch with engraved instructions filled red.
11.
Provide self-locking service compartment with recessed flush door with matching finish 
and engraved capacity.
12.
Include the following in lockable service cabinet:
a.
Inspection switch.
b.
Light switch.
106 of 517

--- page 107 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 44
c.
Fan switch.
d.
Independent service switch.
e.
Constant pressure test button for battery pack emergency lighting.
f.
120-volt, AC, GFCI protected electrical convenience outlet.
g.
Card reader override switch.
h.
Stop switch.
i.
Switch to select either floor voice annunciation, floor passing tone, or chime.
j.
Car lighting dimmer switch.
13.
Provide paint filled etched signage as follows:
a.
Phase II firefighters’ operating instructions.
b.
Car number on main car operating panel.
c.
Car capacity in pounds on service compartment door.
R.
Car Top Control Station: Mount on cartop handrail to provide safe access and operation while 
standing on cartop.
S.
Work Light and Duplex Plug Receptacle: GFCI protected outlet at top of car with LED guarded 
lamps.  Include on/off switch and lamp guard.
T.
Communication System:
1.
A hands-free emergency voice communication system shall be furnished in each car 
mounted as an integral part of the car operating panel. System shall meet CBC 2019 
requirements.
2.
Provide a 4 hour power supply for communication devices under power loss.
3.
Provide two-way communication between car and emergency personnel if required.
2.9
CAR ENCLOSURE
A.
Car Enclosure: Retain existing car shell and interior. Apply sound-deadening mastic to exterior. 
Remove cartop rust and paint cartop. Provide required modifications for new signal and 
pushbutton fixtures. Check and tighten all fasteners. Remove existing interior finishes, weigh, 
and document. Check and tighten all fastenings. Provide new interior finishes as specified 
herein. Verify weight of new interior finishes does not exceed weight of removed finishes by 
more than code allowable. Provide the following features:
1.
Shell: Retain existing
2.
Canopy: Retain existing
3.
Front Return Panels and Integral Entrance Columns: retain, remove all scratches.
4.
Transom: retain, remove all scratches.
5.
Car Door Panels: Provide new.
6.
Base: Stainless steel with concealed ventilation cutouts.
7.
Interior wall finish: Removable panels, faced and edged, with color core plastic lami- 
nate. Design to be in-kind.  Color and finish as selected by owner. Rear wall panel shall 
meet code requirements for glass.
8.
Ventilation: Two-speed model exhaust blower mounted to car canopy on isolated rubber 
grommets. Exhaust blower shall meet requirements of Item 2.3, G. Ventilation shall shut 
off after adjustable period (60 – 180 seconds) of no elevator demand.
107 of 517

--- page 108 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 45
9.
Lighting: Provide LED fixtures with wiring and hookup. Coordinate with emergency 
lighting requirements. Lighting shall shut off after adjustable period (60 – 180 
seconds) of no elevator demand. Provide emergency lighting integral with portion of 
normal car lighting system.  Include required transformer.
10.
Suspended Ceiling : Three section, 6 stainless steel panels mounted in an extruded 
alumi- num angle and T-frame.
11.
Handrails:  Minimum 1-1/4" diameter aluminum tubular grab bar across rear wall.
12.
Pads and Buttons or Hooks: Three-piece removable pads. Two pads covering side walls 
and adjacent front returns and one covering rear wall. Provide cutouts to access main 
car operating panel.
B.
Top of Car Guardrail: Provide car top railings where fall hazard exceeds 12". Install guardrails, 
necessary hardware and toe board to meet code requirements.
2.10
HALL CONTROL STATIONS
A.
Hall Call Control Stations: Provide new flush mounted hall call riser adjacent to each hoistway 
entrances. Pushbutton design shall match car operating panel pushbuttons with vandal resistant 
pushbutton assemblies. Provide enlarged faceplate to cover existing wall blockout. Provide 
appendix H pictorial signs.  Provide cutting, patching and touchup painting around hall stations.
2.11
SIGNALS
A.
Car Direction Lantern Car 1: Provide new replacement car lantern in entrance columns. 
Illuminate up or down LED lights with electronic tone. Sound tone once for up direction and 
twice for down direction. Sound level shall be adjustable from 0 - 80 dBA measured at 5'-0" in 
front of hall control station and 3'-0" off floor. Provide ADA compliant hall call and dwell time. 
Car direction signals shall be arrow shaped minimum 2-1/2" dimension. Provide vandal resistant 
lantern and light assemblies consisting of series of dots or lines for maximum visibility.
B.
Hall position indicator car 1 numeric digital indicator containing floor designations and direction 
arrows a minimum of 1/2" high to indicate floor served and direction of car travel. Mount 
integral with hall lanterns at all floors.
C.
Car Position Indicator:  Provide digital indicator in car operating panel.
D.
Faceplate Material and Finish: Satin stainless, all fixtures.
E.
Floor Passing Tone:  Provide an audible tone.
F.
Voice Synthesizer: Provide electronic device with easily reprogrammable message and female 
voice to announce car direction, floor, emergency exiting instructions, etc.
2.12
SEISMIC OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT
A.
Provide design, components, and operation per governing code.
108 of 517

--- page 109 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 46
PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.1
SITE CONDITION INSPECTION
A.
Inspection
1.
Study the Contract Documents with regard to the work as specified and required so as to 
ensure its completeness.
2.
Examine surface and conditions to which this work is to be attached or applied and notify 
the Owner in writing if conditions or surfaces are detrimental to the proper and expeditious 
installation of the work. Starting the work shall imply acceptance of the surfaces and 
conditions to perform the work as specified.
3.
Verify, by measurements at the project, dimensions affecting the work. Bring field 
dimensions which are at variance with those on the accepted shop drawings to the 
attention of the Owner. Obtain the decision regarding corrective measures before the 
start of fabrication of items affected.
4.
Coordinate the scheduling of the work of this section with the work of other sections so 
as not to delay job progress.
3.2
PRODUCT DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLING
A.
Deliver material in Contractor’s original, unopened protective packaging.
B.
Store material in original protective packaging. Prevent soiling, physical damage, or moisture 
damage.
C.
Protect equipment and exposed finishes from damage and stains during transportation, 
erection, and construction.
3.3
INSTALLATION
A.
Modernize the elevators in accordance with Contractor’s instructions, referenced Codes, 
specification and approved shop drawings.
B.
Install all equipment with clearances in accordance with Codes and specification of the AHJ.
C.
Provide coordination of modernization items for ease of accessibility, maintenance and repair.
D.
Remove oil, dirt and impurities and give a factory coat of rust inhibitive paint to all exposed 
surfaces of struts, hanger supports, covers, fascia, toe guards, dust covers and other ferrous 
metal.
E.
Paint machine room and pit floors.
109 of 517

--- page 110 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 47
3.4
FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
A.
A.Contractor is responsible for Code Authority acceptance inspection performed and complete 
corrective work. Re-inspection costs due to the Contractor shall be included at no cost by the 
Contractor.
3.5
ADJUSTMENTS
A.
Verify alignment of rails within of 1/16" in 100'-0". Provide rail alignment and secure joints 
without gaps and file any irregularities to a smooth surface.
B.
Balance car to equalize pressure of guide shoes on guide rails.
C.
Lubricate all equipment in accordance with Manufacturer’s MCP recommendations.
3.6
CLEANING
A.
Adequately protect surfaces against accumulation of paint, mortar, mastic or damage during 
shipment and installation.
B.
Keep work areas clean during the progress of project.  Remove debris materials daily.
C.
Clean machine room equipment and floor.
D.
Remove all protective packaging and clean hoistway, car, car enclosure, entrances, operating and 
signal fixtures.
3.7
ACCEPTANCE REVIEW AND TESTS
A.
Contractor is responsible for Code Authority acceptance inspection performed and complete 
corrective work. Re-inspection costs due to the Contractor shall be included at no cost by the 
Contractor.
3.8
PURCHASER’S INFORMATION
A.
See Section 01700, Final Contract Compliance Review.
END OF SECTION
SECTION 055000 - METAL FABRICATIONS
110 of 517

--- page 111 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 48
1. PART 1  GENERAL
1.1   SECTION INCLUDES
A.
Shop fabricated ferrous metal items and prime painted.
B.
Schedule of metal fabrications.
1.2
REFERENCES
A.
ASTM A36 - Structural Steel.
B.
ASTM A53 - Pipe, Steel, Black and Hot-Dipped, Zinc-Coated, Welded and Seamless.
C.
ASTM A123 - Zinc (Hot-Dip Galvanized) Coatings on Iron and Steel Products.
D.
ASTM A153 - Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on Iron and Steel Hardware.
E.
ASTM A307 - Carbon Steel Externally Threaded Standard Fasteners.
F.
ASTM A492 - Standard Specification for Stainless Steel Rope Wire.
G.
ASTM A500 - Cold-Formed Welded and Seamless Carbon Steel Structural Tubing in Rounds and 
Shapes.
H.
ASTM A780 - Repair of Damaged and Uncoated Areas of Hot-Dip Galvanized Coatings
I.
AWS A2.4 - Standard Welding Symbols.
J.
AWS D1.1 - Structural Welding Code - Steel.
1.3
QUALIFICATIONS
A.
Welders' Certificates: Submit under provisions of Section 01 33 00, certifying welders 
employed on the Work, verifying AWS qualification within the previous 12 months.
1.4
FIELD MEASUREMENTS
A.
Verify that field measurements are as indicated on Drawings.
2. PART 2  PRODUCTS
2.1
MATERIALS
A.
Steel Sections: ASTM A36.
111 of 517

--- page 112 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 49
B.
Steel Tubing: ASTM A500, Grade B.
C.
Plates: ASTM A36.
D.
Pipe: ASTM A53, Grade B, Schedule 40.
E.
Bolts, Nuts, and Washers: ASTM A307 galvanized to ASTM A153 for galvanized components.
F.
Welding Materials: AWS D1.1; type required for materials being welded.
G.
Shop and Touch Up Primer: SSPC 15, Type 1, red oxide.
H.
Touch-Up Primer for Galvanized Surfaces: SSPC 20.
2.2
FABRICATION, GENERAL
A.
Fit and shop assemble in largest practical sections, for delivery to site.
B.
Fabricate items with joints tightly fitted and secured.
C.
Continuously seal joined members by continuous welds unless indicated otherwise.
D.
Grind exposed joints flush and smooth with adjacent finish surface. Make exposed joints butt 
tight, flush, and hairline. Ease exposed edges to small uniform radius.
E.
Exposed Mechanical Fastenings: Flush countersunk screws or bolts; unobtrusively located; 
consistent with design of component, except where specifically noted otherwise.
F.
Supply components required for anchorage of fabrications. Fabricate anchors and related 
components of same material and finish as fabrication, except where specifically noted 
otherwise.
2.3
FINISHES
A.
Clean surfaces of rust, scale, grease, and foreign matter prior to finishing.
B.
Do not prime surfaces in direct contact with concrete or where field welding is required.
C.
Prime paint items with one coat.
D.
Galvanize assembled items to minimum 1.25 oz/sq ft zinc coating in accordance with ASTM 
A123.
E.
Repair damaged galvanized surfaces in accordance with ASTM A780 Method A2.
F.
Finish: Site paint exposed to view prime painted items under provisions of Section 09 90 00.
3. PART 3  EXECUTION
112 of 517

--- page 113 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 50
3.1   EXAMINATION
A.
Verify that field conditions are acceptable and are ready to receive work.
B.
Beginning of installation means erector accepts existing conditions.
3.2
PREPARATION
A.
Clean and strip primed steel items to bare metal where site welding is required.
B.
Supply items required to be cast into concrete or embedded in masonry with setting templates, 
to appropriate sections.
3.3
INSTALLATION
A.
Install items plumb and level, accurately fitted, free from distortion or defects.
B.
Allow for erection loads, and for sufficient temporary bracing to maintain true alignment until 
completion of erection and installation of permanent attachments.
C.
Field weld components indicated on Drawings.
D.
Perform field welding in accordance with AWS D1.1.
E.
After erection, prime welds, abrasions, and surfaces not shop primed, except surfaces to be in 
contact with concrete.
3.4
SCHEDULE
A.
The Schedule is a list of principal items only. Refer to Drawing details for items not specifically 
scheduled.
B.
Miscellaneous Framing and Supports: Steel not a part of structural steel framework as required to 
complete work; prime paint finish.
C.
Bollards: Steel pipe, concrete filled, crowned cap, as detailed; prime paint finish.
D.
Opening Frames for Overhead Doors and Wall Openings: Structural sections; prime paint finish.
E.
Elevator Hoist Way Beams: Structural sections as detailed, prime paint finish.
F.
Elevator Door Sill Supports:  Steel shapes as detailed, prime paint finish.
END OF SECTION
SECTION 099000 – PAINTING
1. PART 1  GENERAL
113 of 517

--- page 114 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 51
1.1   SECTION INCLUDES
A.
Surface preparation.
B.
Products and application.
C.
Surface finish schedule.
1.2
SUMMARY OF PAINTED SUBSTRATES
A.
Section includes the application of paint systems on the following interior substrates:
1.
Primed or unprimed steel.
2.
Galvanized metal.
3.
Steel handrails, guardrails and fittings.
4.
Steel doors, frames and lights.
5.
Access doors and frames.
6.
Horizontal and vertical gypsum board.
7.
Plaster.
8.
Wall louvers.
9.
Electrical panel board covers.
B.
Section includes the application of paint systems on the following exterior substrates:
1.
Concrete.
2.
Primed or unprimed steel.
3.
Decorative metal fencing.
4.
Bollards.
5.
Sheet metal flashing and trim.
6.
Sheet metal gutters and downspouts.
7.
Steel pipe downspouts.
8.
Steel doors, frames and lights.
114 of 517

--- page 115 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 52
9.
Glass frames in steel and wood doors.
10.
Portland cement plaster (stucco).
11.
Wall louvers.
12.
Mechanical roof mounted equipment.
13.    Electrical panel board covers.
C. Substrate listings are for principal surfaces only. Refer to drawings, details and individual 
specification sections for items, surfaces, and substrates not specifically listed.
1.3
REFERENCES
A.
ASTM D16 - Definitions of Terms Relating to Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related Products.
B.
SSPC - The Society for Protective Coatings.
1.4
SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
A.
Preparation of all surfaces to receive final finish.
B.
Painting and finishing work of this section using coating systems of materials including primers, 
sealers, fillers, and other applied materials whether used as prime, intermediate, or finish coats.
C.
Surface preparation, priming, and finish coats specified in this Section are in addition to shop-
priming and surface treatment specified under other Sections.
D.
Painting and finishing all exterior and interior surfaces of materials including structural, 
mechanical, and electrical work on site, in building spaces, and above or on the roof.
E.
Paint exposed surfaces except where a surface or material is specifically indicated not to be 
painted or is to remain natural. Where an item or surface is not specifically mentioned, paint the 
same as similar adjacent materials or surfaces.
1.5
DEFINITIONS
A.
Conform to ASTM D16 for interpretation of terms used in this Section.
1.6
QUALITY ASSURANCE
A.
Product Manufacturer: Company specializing in manufacturing quality paint and finish products 
with five years experience.
B.
Applicator: Company specializing in commercial painting and finishing with five years 
documented experience.
C.
Coats: The number of coats specified is the minimum number acceptable. If full coverage is not 
obtained with the specified number of coats, apply such additional coats as are necessary to 
produce the required finish.
115 of 517

--- page 116 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 53
D.
Employ coats and undercoats for all types of finishes in strict accordance with the 
recommendations of the paint manufacturer.
E.
Provide primers and undercoat paint produced by the same manufacturer as the finish coat.
F.
The minimum dry film thickness of each coat of paint shall comply with the manufacturer's 
recommendations for each type of paint used.
1.7
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
A.
Comply with applicable codes and regulations of governmental agencies having jurisdiction 
including those having jurisdiction over airborne emissions and industrial waste disposal. Where 
those requirements conflict with this specification, comply with the more stringent provisions.
B.
Comply with the current applicable regulations of the California Air Resources Board (CARB) 
and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
1.8
SUBMITTALS
A.
Submit product data under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
Submit samples under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
C.
Submit two samples 8-1/2 x 11 inch in size of each paint color and texture applied to cardboard. 
Resubmit samples until acceptable color, sheen and texture is obtained.
D.
On same species and quality of wood to be installed, submit two 4 x 8 inch samples showing 
system to be used for varnishes and stains.
1.9
FIELD SAMPLES
A.
Provide field samples under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
On wall surfaces and other exterior and interior components, duplicate specified  finishes on at 
least   100 sq.ft. of surface area.
C.
Provide full-coat finishes until required coverage, sheen, color and texture are obtained.
D.
Simulate finished lighting conditions for review of field samples.
E.
After finishes are accepted, the accepted surface may remain as part of the work and will be 
used to evaluate subsequent coating systems applications of a similar nature.
1.10 DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLING
A.
Deliver products to site and store and protect under provisions of City’s Division 01 General 
Requirements.
B.
Deliver products to site in sealed and labeled containers; inspect to verify acceptance.
C.
Container labeling to include manufacturer's name, type of paint, brand name, brand code, 
116 of 517

--- page 117 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 54
coverage, surface preparation, drying time, cleanup, color designation, and instructions for mixing 
and reducing. Paint containers not displaying product identification will not be acceptable.
D.
Store paint materials at minimum ambient temperature of 50 degrees F and a maximum of 90 
degrees F, in well ventilated area, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
E.
Take precautionary measures to prevent fire hazards and spontaneous combustion.
1.11 ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
A.
Provide continuous ventilation and heating facilities to maintain interior surface and ambient 
temperatures above 50 degrees F with a maximum humidity level of 50 percent for 24 hours 
before, during, and 48 hours after application of finishes, unless required otherwise by 
manufacturer's instructions.
B.
Do not apply exterior coatings during rain or snow, or when relative humidity is above 50 
percent, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
C.
Minimum Application Temperatures for Latex Paints: 50 degrees F for interiors; 50 degrees F 
for exterior; unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
D.
Minimum Application Temperature for Varnish and Urethane Finishes: 65 degrees F for interior 
or exterior, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
E.
Provide lighting level of 80 foot candles measured mid-height at substrate surface.
1.12 EXTRA MATERIAL
A.
Provide a one gallon unopened container of each color to Owner.
B.
Label each container with color, texture, and room locations in addition to the manufacturer's label.
2. PART 2  PRODUCTS
2.1   ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURERS - PAINT
A.
Unless specifically identified otherwise, product designations included in this section are those 
that 
are 
manufactured 
and 
distributed 
by 
the 
Dunn-Edwards 
Corporation, 
www.dunnedwards.com and shall serve as the basis of design standard for kind, quality, 
performance and function.
B.
Subject to full compliance with specified requirements, other manufacturers offering 
equivalent products are:
1.
Benjamin Moore Paints, www.benjaminmoore.com.
2.
Kelly-Moore Paint Company, www.kellymoore.com.
3.
Sherwin Williams, www.sherwin-williams.com.
4.
Vista Paint Corporation, www.vistapaint.com.
117 of 517

--- page 118 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 55
C.
Substitutions: Under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
2.2
MATERIALS
A.
Ready mixed, except field catalyzed coatings. Process pigments to a soft paste consistency, 
capable of being readily and uniformly dispersed to a homogeneous coating.
B.
Good flow and brushing properties; capable of drying or curing free of streaks or sags.
C.
“Deep Tone” colors to be composed of 100 percent acrylic pigments with a colored base.
D.
Accessory Materials: Linseed oil, shellac, turpentine, paint thinners and other materials not 
specifically indicated but required to achieve the finishes specified, of commercial quality.
2.3
FINISHES
A.
Refer to schedule at end of Section for surface finish schedule.
3. PART 3  EXECUTION
3.1
INSPECTION
A.
Verify that surfaces are ready to receive work as instructed by the product manufacturer.
B.
Examine surfaces to be finished prior to commencement of work. Report any condition that may 
potentially affect proper application.
C.
Measure moisture content of surfaces using an electronic moisture meter. Do not apply finishes 
unless moisture content of surfaces are below the following maximums:
1.
Plaster and Gypsum Wallboard
:
12 percent.
2.
Masonry, Concrete, and Concrete Unit Masonry :
12 percent.
3.
Interior Located Wood
:
15 percent.
4.
Exterior Located Wood
:
15 percent.
D.
Beginning of installation means acceptance of existing surfaces.
3.2
SURFACE PREPARATION - GENERAL
A.
Remove electrical plates, hardware, light fixture trim, and fittings prior to preparing surfaces or 
finishing.
B.
Remove all finish hardware from doors and frames prior to preparing surfaces or finishing.
C.
Correct minor defects and clean surfaces which affect work of this Section.
118 of 517

--- page 119 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 56
D.
Gypsum Board: Repair all voids, nicks, cracks and dents with patching materials and finish 
flush with adjacent surface. Latex fill minor defects. Spot prime defects after repair.
E.
Plaster: Fill hairline cracks, small holes, and imperfections with latex patching plaster. Make 
smooth and flush with adjacent surfaces. Wash and neutralize high alkali surfaces.
F.
Uncoated Steel and Iron: Remove grease, scale, dirt, and rust. Where heavy coatings of scale are 
evident, remove by wire brushing or sandblasting; clean by washing with solvent. Apply a 
treatment of phosphoric acid solution, ensuring weld joints, bolts, and nuts are similarly cleaned. 
Prime paint after repairs.
G.
Shop Primed Steel: Sand and scrape to remove loose primer and rust. Feather edges to make 
touch-up patches inconspicuous. Clean surfaces with solvent. Prime paint steel surfaces.
H.
Exterior Wood: Remove dust, grit, and foreign matter. Seal knots, pitch streaks, and sappy 
sections. Fill nail holes with tinted exterior caulking compound after prime coat has been 
applied.
I.
Wood Doors: Seal top and bottom edges with 2 coats of spar varnish sealer.
3.3
PROTECTION OF ADJACENT WORK
A.
Protect elements surrounding the work of this Section from damage or disfiguration.
B.
Repair damage to other surfaces caused by work of this Section.
C.
Furnish drop cloths, shields, and protective methods to prevent spray or droppings from 
disfiguring other surfaces.
D.
Remove empty paint containers from site.
3.4
WORK NOT TO BE PAINTED
A.
Painting is not required on surfaces in concealed and inaccessible areas such as furred spaces, 
foundation spaces, utility tunnels, pipe spaces and duct shafts.
B.
Do not paint metal surfaces such as stainless steel, chromium plate, brass, bronze, and similar 
finished metal surfaces.
C.
Do not paint anodized aluminum or other surfaces which are specified to be factory pre-finished.
D.
Do not paint sandblasted or architecturally finished concrete surfaces.
E.
Do not paint prefinished acoustic materials or acoustic suspension systems.
F.
Do not paint over Underwriters Laboratories, Factory Mutual or other code-required labels or 
identifications.
3.5
APPLICATION
A.
Apply products in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
119 of 517

--- page 120 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 57
B.
Do not apply finishes to surfaces that are not dry.
C.
Apply prime coat to surfaces which are to be painted or finished.
D.
Apply each coat to uniform finish.
E.
Apply each coat of paint slightly darker than preceding coat unless otherwise approved.
F.
Sand lightly between coats to achieve required finish.
G.
Allow applied coat to dry before next coat is applied.
H.
The number of coats specified is the minimum that shall be applied. Apply additional coats when 
undercoats, stains or other conditions show through final paint coat, until paint film is of uniform 
finish, color and appearance.
I.
Where clear finishes are required, tint fillers to match wood. Work fillers into the grain before 
set. Wipe excess from surface.
J.
Prime back surfaces of interior and exterior woodwork with primer paint.
K.
Prime back surfaces of interior woodwork scheduled to receive stain or varnish finish with 
gloss varnish reduced 25 percent with mineral spirits.
L.
Paint mill finished door seals to match door or frame.
M.
Paint primed steel glazing stops in doors to match door or frame.
N.
Cloudiness, spotting, lap marks, brush marks, runs, sags, spikes and other surface 
imperfections will not be acceptable.
O.
Where spray application is used, apply each coat of the required thickness. Do not double back 
to build up film thickness of two coats in one pass.
P.
Where roller application is used, roll and redistribute paint to an even and fine texture. Leave no 
evidence of roller laps, irregularity of texture, skid marks, or other surface imperfections.
3.6
FINISHING MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT]
A.
Paint shop primed equipment. Do not paint shop prefinished items.
B.
Remove unfinished louvers, grilles, covers, and access panels on mechanical and electrical 
components and paint separately.
C.
Prime and paint insulated and exposed pipes, conduit, boxes, insulated and exposed ducts, 
hangers, brackets, collars and supports, except where items are prefinished.
D.
Replace identification markings on mechanical or electrical equipment when painted 
accidentally.
120 of 517

--- page 121 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 58
E.
Paint interior surfaces of air ducts, and connector and baseboard heating cabinets that are visible 
through grilles and louvers with one coat of flat black paint, to limit of sight line. Paint dampers 
exposed behind louvers, grilles, and connector and baseboard cabinets to match face panels.
F.
Paint exposed conduit and electrical equipment occurring in finished areas.
G.
Paint both sides and edges of plywood backboards for electrical and telephone equipment before 
installing equipment.
H.
Replace electrical plates, hardware, light fixture trim, and fittings removed prior to finishing.
I.
Paint grilles, registers, and diffusers which do not match color of adjacent surface.
J.
Paint all mechanical and electrical equipment, vents, fans, and the like occurring on roof.
K.
Do not paint moving parts of operating units; mechanical or electrical parts such as valve 
operators; linkages; sensing devices; and motor shafts.
L.
Do not paint over labels or equipment identification markings.
M.
Do not paint mechanical room specialties such as compressors, boilers, pumps, control panels, 
etc.
N.
Do not paint switch plates, light fixtures, and fixture lenses.
3.7
CLEANING
A.
As Work proceeds, promptly remove paint where spilled, splashed, or spattered.
B.
During progress of Work maintain premises free of unnecessary accumulation of tools, 
equipment, surplus materials, and debris.
C.
Collect cotton waste, cloths, and material which may constitute a fire hazard, place in closed 
metal containers and remove daily from site.
3.8
PROTECTION OF COMPLETED WORK
A.
Protect finished installation under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
Erect barriers and post warning signs. Maintain in place until coatings are fully dry.
C.
Confirm that no dust generating activities will occur following application of coatings.
3.9
PATCHING
A.
After completion of painting in any one room or area, repair surfaces damaged by other trades.
B.
Touch-up or re-finish as required to produce intended appearance.
3.10 FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
121 of 517

--- page 122 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 59
A.
Field inspection and testing will be performed under provisions of City’s Division 01 General 
Requirements.
B.
The Owner reserves the right to invoke the following test procedure at any time and as often as 
the Owner deems necessary.
C.
The Owner will engage the services of an independent testing agency to sample paint material 
being used.
D.
Samples of material delivered to the Project will be taken, identified, sealed, and certified in 
the presence of the Contractor.
E.
The testing agency will perform appropriate quantitive materials analysis and other 
characteristic testing of materials as required by the Owner.
F.
If test results show materials being used and their installation do not comply with specified 
requirements or manufacturer's recommendations, the Contractor may be directed to stop painting, 
remove noncomplying paint, pay for testing and repaint surfaces to acceptable condition.
3.11 COLOR SCHEDULE
A.
Paint and finish colors shall be selected by the Architect from manufacturer's entire range of 
standard and custom color selections and special colors selected to match or compliment the 
colors of other materials, equipment, or components which comprise the work.
B.
Access doors, registers, exposed piping, electrical conduit and mechanical/electrical panels: 
Generally the same color as adjacent walls.
C.
Exterior and interior steel doors, frames and trim: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent 
walls.
D.
Doors generally are all the same color, but of a contrasting color from frame and trim.
E.
Exterior and interior steel fabrications: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent walls.
F.
Exposed interior mechanical/ductwork: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent walls or 
ceiling.
G.
Ceilings are generally to be painted a different color than walls.
H.
Approximately 20 percent of overall painting work will be required to be "Deep Tone" colors. 
This work will require one additional coat of paint beyond that as specified.
3.12 SCHEDULE - EXTERIOR SURFACES
A.
Concrete (Flat Acrylic)
1st coat:
ESPROO Eff-Stop Premium
2nd coat:
EVSH10 Evershield
3rd coat:
EVSH10 Evershield
122 of 517

--- page 123 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 60
B.
Cement Plaster (Flat Elastomeric)
1st coat:
FPSL00 Flex Prime Select
2nd coat:
EDLX10 Enduralastic 10
3rd coat:
EDLX10 Enduralastic 10
C.
Steel - Primed or Unprimed (Eggshell Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
BRPR00 Bloc-Rust Premium
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
D.
Steel - Galvanized (Eggshell Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
Supreme Chemical Metal Clean and Etch SCME-01
2nd coat:
ULGM00 Ultrashield Galvanized Metal Primer
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
4th coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3.13 SCHEDULE - INTERIOR SURFACES
A.
Steel - Primed or Unprimed (Eggshell, Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
BRPR00 Bloc-Rust Premium
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
B.
Steel - Galvanized (Eggshell, Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
ULGM00 Ultrashield Galvanized Metal Primer
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
C.
Gypsum Board (Eggshell Acrylic)
1st coat:
VNPROO Vinylastic Premium
2nd coat:
SPMA30 Suprema
3rd coat:
SPMA30 Suprema
D.
Gypsum Board (Semi-Gloss Acrylic)
1st coat:
VNPROO Vinylastic Premium
2nd coat:
SPMA50 Suprema
3rd coat:
SPMA50 Suprema
END OF SECTION
123 of 517

--- page 124 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 61
City of San Mateo
Contract Book – Volume 3
Central Garage
Elevator Modernization 
City Project No. 46F035
Technical Specifications
October 26, 2023
124 of 517

--- page 125 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 62
SECTION 14250 – ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
PART 1 – GENERAL 
1.2
WORK INCLUDED
A.
Improve one (1) hydraulic elevator at Central Parking Garage, 315 S. Ellsworth Street, San Mateo, 
CA 94401.
B.
All engineering, equipment, labor, and permits required to satisfactorily complete elevator 
modernization required by Contract Documents.
C.
Applicable conditions of General, Special, and Supplemental Conditions and all sections listed in 
Contract Documents.
D.
Cartage and Hoisting: All required staging, hoisting and movement to, on and from the site 
including new equipment, reused equipment, or dismantling and removal of existing 
equipment.
E.
Provide new equipment unless equipment is specifically identified as “Retain,” or “Refurbish.”
F.
Removal and lawful disposal of any existing equipment not specifically being re-used in the 
elevator modernization.
   1.2         RELATED WORK BY CONTRACTOR 
D.
Hoistway and Pit:
1.
Wall blockouts and fire rated closure for control and signal fixture boxes which 
penetrate walls.
2.
Cutting and patching walls and floors.
3.
Opening in hoistway wall or pit wall for hydraulic piping. Trench and back fill under- 
ground piping.
4.
Pit access stationary ladder for each elevator. Retractable ladder if provided shall 
include an electrical contact conforming to ASME A17.1, Rule 2.2.2.4.2.7.
5.
Protect car enclosure, hoistway entrance assemblies, and special metal finishes 
from damage.
6.
Paint pit floor. Floors to be painted deck gray. Floor paint to be high impact 
resistant epoxy based.
7.
Hole in pit floor, 3'-0" square, to facilitate installation of protective secondary 
containment casing by Elevator Contractor. Fill hole with concrete after jack installation. 
125 of 517

--- page 126 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 63
Seal pit with non-permeable epoxy.
E.
Machine Room and Machinery Spaces:
1.
Ventilation and heating. Maintain minimum temperature of 55° F, maximum 90° F. 
Maintain maximum 80% relative humidity, non-condensing.
2.
Paint floor. Floors to be painted deck gray. Floor paint to be high impact resistant 
epoxy based.
3.
Fire sprinkler removal or installation where required.
4.
Coordinate secondary containment of pump unit oil reservoir with elevator contractor.
F.
Electrical Service, Conductors and Devices:
1.
Lighting and GFCI convenience outlets in pit, machine room, and overhead machinery 
spaces. Provide one additional non-GFCI convenience outlet in pit for sump pump and 
oil return pump.
2.
Three-phase mainline copper power feeder with true earthen grounding to terminals of 
each elevator controller in the machine room with protected, lockable “open” 
disconnect- ing means with auxiliary contacts to allow Elevator Contractor to 
electronically interlock battery power lowering unit.
3.
Provide lighting fixtures in machine room that are above existing controllers to 
provide 19 fc of illumination throughout the machine room.
4.
Replace existing unguarded lighting in each pit with guarded fluorescent lighting to 
pro- vide 10 fc of illumination throughout the pit. Lighting should be mounted lower 
than the current position so that the new extended 48" toe guard installed on the 
elevator cabs does not strike the new lighting. Install 4’ dual bulb led light.
5.
Install GFCI convenience outlets in pit and machine room.
6.
Single-phase copper power feeder to each elevator controller for car lighting and 
exhaust blower with individual protected, lockable “open” disconnecting means located 
in ma- chine room.
7.
Emergency telephone line to designated elevator control panel in elevator machine room.
8.
Fire alarm initiating devices in each elevator lobby for each group of elevators or single 
elevator and each machine room to initiate firefighters’ return feature. Device at top of 
hoistway if sprinklered. Provide alarm initiating signal wiring from hoistway or machine 
room connection point to elevator controller terminals. Device in machine room and at 
top of hoistway to provide signal for general alarm and discrete signal for Phase II fire- 
fighters’ operation.
9.
Temporary power and illumination to install, test, and adjust elevator equipment.
10.
Means to automatically disconnect power to affected elevator pump unit and 
controller prior to activation of machine room fire sprinkler system and/or hoistway 
fire sprinkler system. Manual shut-off means shall be located outside bounds of 
machine room.
11.
When sprinklers are provided in the hoistway all electrical equipment located less than 
4'- 0" above the pit floor shall be identified for use in wet locations. Exception: seismic 
pro- tection devices.
12.
Single-phase power feeders to firefighters’ control panel.
126 of 517

--- page 127 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 64
13.
Single-phase power feeder to elevator intercom amplifier in the elevator machine room.
1.10
DEFINITIONS
A.
Terms used are defined in the latest edition of the Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, 
ASME A17.1.
B.
Reference to a device or a part of the equipment applies to the number of devices or parts 
required to complete the installation.
C.
The term “Purchaser” shall refer to the Owner.
D.
Provisions of this specification are applicable to all elevators unless identified otherwise.
1.11
QUALITY ASSURANCE
A.
Qualified and Approved Contractors: Alternate Contractors must receive approval of Purchaser 
and or Consultant at least 14 calendar days prior to bid date.
1.
Control Systems: OEM, Motion Control Engineering (MCE), Smartrise Engineering, 
Elevator Controls.
2.
Hydraulic Power Unit and Accessories: OEM, MEI, Canton.
3.
Door Operator Equipment: ECI VF2500, GAL MOVFR, OEM linear.
4.
Signal Fixtures: Innovation Industries, OEM.
B.
Warranty:
1.
Contractor shall warrant the equipment installed under the specifications against defect 
in material and quality of installation and correct any defects, unless due to unordinary 
wear and tear or improper use or care by Purchaser.
a.
Defective is defined to include, but not limited to; operational system failures, car 
performance, unusual degradation of materials or finishes, unsafe conditions, the 
need for excessive maintenance, unusual wear, abnormal noise or vibration, and 
related unsatisfactory conditions.
b.
Retained Equipment: All retained equipment and components shall be checked and 
cleaned or repaired to be suitable for reuse and covered under preventative 
maintenance by the Contractor. All retained equipment shall integrate with newly 
installed systems.
c.
Modify or adjust equipment to meet performance requirements of Contract 
Documents.
1.12
APPLICABLE CODES
A.
Work specified by the Contract Documents shall be in compliance with applicable Federal, State, 
and municipal codes and ordinances in effect at the time of Contract execution. Requirements 
of the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be completed by the Contractor and Subcontractors. 
The entire alteration, when completed shall Comply with most stringent applicable provisions 
127 of 517

--- page 128 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 65
of following Codes, laws, and/or Authorities, including revisions and changes in effect:
1.
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, ASME A17.1
2.
Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving Walks, ASME A17.2
3.
Elevator and Escalator Electrical Equipment, ASME A17.5
4.
National Electrical Code, NFPA 70
5.
Americans with Disabilities Act, ADA
6.
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard, UFAS
7.
Local Fire Authority
8.
Requirements of most stringent provision of local applicable building code within 
the governing jurisdiction.
9.
Life Safety Code, NFPA 101.
10.
California Accessibility Standards, Title 24 Chapter 11b.
11.
California Code of Regulations Title 8 and California Building Code Title 24
B.
Abbreviated symbols
AHJ
Authority having Jurisdiction
AIA
American Institute of Architects
ANSI
American National Standards Institute
ASME
American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ASTM
American Society for Testing and Materials
AWS
American Welding Society
IBC
International Building Code
IEEE
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
NEC
National Electric Code
NEMA
National Electrical Manufacturers Association
NFPA
National Fire Protections Agency
OSHA
Occupational Safety and Health Act
1.13
DOCUMENT AND SITE VERIFICATION
A.
Submission of a bid will be considered evidence that the bidder has made themselves fully aware 
of the Contract requirements, scope of work, building access, related work required by other 
trades, existing equipment, as well as any requirements of the local authority, manpower 
requirements and has made proper allowance for all contingencies.
B.
Any discrepancies, omissions or items requiring clarification found by bidders in the Contract 
Documents shall be submitted in writing directly to the Consultant for clarification. All bidders 
will be notified of clarifications in writing.
128 of 517

--- page 129 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
46F035
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
14250 - 66
C.
Contractor shall be responsible for verifying all dimensions, data and site conditions.
1.14
SUBMITTALS
A.
Prior to beginning equipment fabrication, submit shop drawings and required material samples 
for review.  Allow 15 days for response to initial submittal and include the following:
1.
Power Confirmation Information:  Design for existing conditions.
2.
Fixture drawings.
B.
Acknowledge and/or respond to review comments within 10 calendar days of return. 
Incorporate required changes so that delivery and installation schedules are not affected.
129 of 517

--- page 130 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
C.
Approval of the drawings and cuts by Owner’s designee or Consultant shall be for general 
arrangement only and does not include measurements which are the Contractor’s 
responsibility or approval of variations from the contract documents required by the AHJ.
D.
Submittal review shall not be construed as an indication that submittal is correct or suitable, 
or that the work represented by submittal complies with the Contract Documents.
1.15
PERMIT, TEST AND INSPECTION
A.
Obtain and pay for permit, license, and inspection fee necessary to complete installation.
B.
Perform test required by Governing Authority in accordance with procedure described in 
ASME A17.2 Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving Walks in the presence 
of Authorized Representative.
C.
Supply personnel and equipment for test and final review by Consultant.
1.16
MAINTENANCE
A.
Warranty Maintenance:
1.
Provide preventive maintenance and 24-hour emergency callback service for one year 
commencing on date of final acceptance by Purchaser. Final acceptance shall be in 
writing and after the final inspection is turned over by the AHJ. Monthly, examine, 
adjust, clean, and lubricate all equipment. Repair or replace defective parts using parts 
produced by the Contractor of installed equipment. Maintain elevator machine room, 
hoistway, and pit in clean condition.
2.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
3.
The warranty maintenance period specified above shall be extended one (1) month for 
each three (3) month period in which equipment related failures average more than 
.25 per unit per month.
4.
Purchaser retains the option to delete cost of warranty maintenance from new 
equipment contract and remit twelve (12) equal installments directly to Contractor 
during period in which maintenance is being performed.
5.
The Elevator Contractor shall contact ownership approximately two months prior to 
the end of the contract term. The Owner will make a thorough maintenance inspection 
of all elevators covered under the contract. At the conclusion of this inspection, the 
Owner shall give the Contractor written notice of any deficiencies found. The 
contractor shall be responsible for correction of these deficiencies within thirty days 
after receipt of such notice.
B.
Interim Maintenance:   
1.
Provide pro-active preventive maintenance service with 24-hour service on elevators 
described herein for a period from notice to proceed, verbal or written, until each unit 
130 of 517

--- page 131 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
is removed from building service for modernization. 24-hour service begins when the 
first car is removed from service in occupied buildings. In addition, furnish interim 
preventive maintenance on completed units until the modernization of each group of 
elevators is complete and one-year warranty maintenance, defined in Item 1.02 
below, is commenced. Cost of interim maintenance shall not be included as part of 
modernization quotation. Indicate costs on a per-unit basis for interim maintenance 
as requested on quotation form.
Costs for interim maintenance shall be paid by Purchaser separately and monthly based 
upon the number of units in service. Perform interim maintenance based upon terms 
and conditions of owners contract.
2.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
3.
    Provide interim maintenance in accordance with City of San Mateo contract  
C.
Preventive Maintenance 
1.
Use licensed and competent personnel, acceptable to Purchaser.
2.
Maintenance shall include systematic examination, adjustment and lubrication of all 
equipment, including repair and replacement of electrical and mechanical parts of the 
system.
3.
Adequate stock of spare parts for emergency callbacks shall be stored onsite.
4.
Additional parts or equipment required for maintenance and repair of the system shall 
be available within 4 hours of the project site. Other items not normally stocked must 
be available within 24 hours for delivery. Overnight charges are the responsibility of 
the Contractor.
.
5.
Provide preventive maintenance in accordance with City of San Mateo contract.
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.13
SUMMARY
A.
Elevator 1
B.
Provide New, Alter, or Retain as required below.
State ID: elev. 1: 59503
R = Retain 
N = New 
A = Alter
N/A = Not Applicable
SPEED:
150 FPM
R
131 of 517

--- page 132 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
CAPACITY:
2500 lbs.
R
ENTRANCE SIZE:
42”x 84” SSSO
R
STOPS/LANDINGS
5
R
CONTROLS:
MCE 1000
N
ENCODER:
Digital
N
PUMP UNIT:
Submersible
N
HOISTWAY EQUIPMENT 
(BUFFERS AND PIT EQUIPMENT):
R
CAR SLING:
R
ROLLER GUIDES:
N
PLATFORM:
R
CAR DOOR OPERATOR:
N
CAR DOOR EQUIPMENT:
N
RAILS/SUPPORTS:
R
HOISTWAY DOOR EQUIPMENT:
N
HOISTWAY ENTRANCE FRAMES:
R/A
HOISTWAY DOOR PANELS:
R
HOISTWAY DOOR SILLS:
R
HOISTWAY WIRING TRAVELING 
CABLES:
N
HYDRAULIC CYLINDER
N
CAR OPERATING PANELS:
N
HALL PUSHBUTTONS:
N
HALL LANTERNS:
N/A
CAR POSITION INDICATORS:
N
CAB INTERIOR FINISHES:
N
MACHINE ROOM:
A
MACHINE ROOM LIGHTING:
A
MACHINE ROOM OUTLETS:
A
MACHINE ROOM ACCESS:
R
132 of 517

--- page 133 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
MACHINE DISCONNECT SWITCH:
N
COOLING/HEATING MACHINE 
ROOM:
R/A
PIT LIGHTING:
A
PIT OUTLETS:
A
HOISTWAY VENTING:
R
2.14
MATERIALS
A.
Steel:
1.
Sheet   Steel   (Furniture   Steel   for  Exposed  Work):
Stretcher-leveled,  cold-
rolled, commercial quality carbon steel, complying with ASTM A366, matte finish.
2.
Sheet Steel (for Unexposed Work): Hot-rolled, commercial quality carbon steel, 
pickled and oiled, complying with ASTM A568/A568M-03.
3.
Structural Steel Shapes and Plates:  ASTM A36.
B.
Stainless Steel: Type 316, or approved equal; complying with ASTM A240, with 
standard tempers and hardness required for fabrication, strength and durability.  Apply 
mechanical finish on fabricated work in the locations shown or specified, (Federal Standard 
and NAAMM nomenclature).  Protect with adhesive paper covering.
1.
Satin: Directional polish finish (US 32D). Graining directions as shown or, if not 
shown, in longest dimension.
C.
Aluminum:  Extrusions per ASTM B221; sheet and plate per ASTM B209.
D.
Plastic Laminate: ASTM E84 Class A and NEMA LD3.1, Fire-Rated Grade (GP-50), Type 7, 
0.050” ±.005” thick, color and texture as follows;
1.
Exposed Surfaces:  Color and texture selected by Owner’s Representative.
2.
Concealed Surfaces:  Contractor’s standard color and finish.
E.
Paint: Clean exposed metal parts and assemblies of oil, grease, scale, and other foreign matter 
and factory paint one shop coat of standard rust-resistant primer. After erection, provide 
one finish coat of industrial enamel paint.
F.
Glass: Laminated safety glass, minimum 9/16” thick, conforming to ANSI Z97.1 and CPSC 16 
CFR Part 1201.
2.15
CAR AND GROUP PERFORMANCE
A.
Speed:  within ± 10% of contract speed under any loading condition.
133 of 517

--- page 134 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
B.
Leveling:  within ±1/4" under any loading condition.
C.
Door Opening Time:  From start of opening to fully open:
1.
Car 1: 3.1 seconds.
D.
Door Closing Time:  From start of closing to fully closed:
1.
Car 1: 4.0 seconds.
E.
Car Floor-to-Floor Performance Time: From start of doors closing until doors are 3/4 open 
(1/2 open for side opening doors) and car level and stopped at next successive floor under any 
loading condition or travel direction (132” typical floor height):
1.
Car 1: 14.1 seconds.
F.
Car Ride Quality:
1.
Horizontal acceleration within car during all riding and door operating conditions. 
Not more than 20 mg peak to peak (adjacent peaks) in the 1 - 10 Hz range.
2.
Acceleration and Deceleration: Smooth constant and not less than 3 feet/second² 
with an initial ramp between 0.5 and 0.75 second.
3.
Sustained Jerk:  Not less than 6 feet/second³.
G.
Noise:
1.
Measured noise level of elevator equipment during operation shall not the following:
a.
Car at rest with doors closed, fan running - 55 dba.
b.
Door in operation - 60 dba.
H.
Vibration:
1.
Isolate power unit, controller, oil supply lines and their supports from the building. 
Electrically isolate the equipment from the building power supply and to each other 
to reduce the potential noise and vibrations transmitted to adjacent occupants.
2.16
OPERATION Elevator 1  
A.
Selective Collective
1.
Approved microprocessor-based, car and motion control systems as follows:
a.
Kone: Resolve
b.
Otis: Elevonic
c.
Schindler 330A
d.
Mitsubishi: AI-2100N
e.
TKE: TAC 32
f.
MCE: HMC
g.
Smartrise
2.
Provide selective collection operation operating from a single hall riser.
3.
Do not reverse car direction until all car calls have been answered.
4.
Slow car and stop automatically at floors corresponding to registered calls, in the order 
134 of 517

--- page 135 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
in which they are approached in either direction of travel. As slowdown is initiated for 
a hall call, automatically cancel hall call. Cancel car calls in the same manner. Hold car 
at arrival floor an adjustable time interval to allow passenger transfer.
5.
Answer calls corresponding to direction in which car is traveling unless call in the 
opposite direction of the call registered.
6.
Illuminate pushbutton to visually indicate call registration.
7.
Provide zone programming features to park car at the designated landing selected by 
the Owner.
B.
Low Oil Control: in the event oil levels is insufficient for travel to the top floor, provide 
controls to return elevator to the main level and park until oil is added.
C.
Independent Service: Provide controls for operation of each car from its pushbuttons only. 
Close doors by constant pressure on desired destination floor button or door close button. 
Open doors automatically upon arrival at selected floor.
D.
Firefighters’ Service:  Provide equipment and operation in accordance with Code 
requirements.
E.
Automatic Car Stopping Zone: Stop car within 1/4" above or below the landing sill. Maintain 
stopping zone regardless of load in car or direction of travel.
F.
Motion Control: AC type with unit valve suitable for operation specified and capable of 
providing smooth, comfortable car acceleration and retardation. Limit the difference in car 
speed between full load and no load to not more than ±10% of the contract speed in either 
direction of travel.
G.
Standby Lighting and Alarm: Car mounted battery unit with solid-state charger to operate 
alarm bell and car emergency lighting. Battery to be rechargeable with minimum five-year 
life expectancy. Include required transformer. Provide constant pressure test button in 
service compartment of car operating panel. Provide lighting integral with portion of normal 
car lighting system.
H.
Battery Lowering Device:
1.
Upon loss of normal power, provide controls to automatically lower the cars to the 
nearest lower landing. Upon arrival at the nearest landing, the elevator doors shall 
open automatically and remain open until regular door time has expired. The elevator 
shall then become deactivated. The standby power source shall be provided via 12 volt 
D.C. battery units installed in machine room, including solid-state charger and testing 
means mounted in a common metal container. Battery to be rechargeable lead acid or 
nickel cadmium with a ten-year life expectancy.
2.
Upon restoration of normal power, the elevator shall automatically resume normal 
operation.
135 of 517

--- page 136 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
I.
Door Operation: Automatically open doors when car arrives at main floor. At expiration of 
normal dwell time, close doors. Provide heavy door/variable air pressure feature for 
consistent specified door operation within appropriate speed and inertia limits. Car and 
hoistway doors shall be arranged to operate in unison without excessive noise or slamming in 
either direction of travel.
1.
Door opening speeds of 1.5 feet per second shall be provided in conjunction with 
closing speeds of 1.0 feet per second in accordance with governing code.
a.
Door operation shall commence as the car stops level at the floor. Pre-door 
opening shall not be permitted.
b.
The force necessary to prevent closing of the car and hoistway door from rest 
shall not exceed 30 lb. This force shall be measured on the leading edge of the 
door with the door at any point between one third and two thirds of its travel.
c.
The operation of the door protective device by the interruption during the close 
cycle shall cause the immediate reversing of the doors to the fully open position.
d.
The door closing cycle shall be arranged so that, in the event the door protective 
devices become continually obstructed after the normal door open dwell time 
has expired, and following a time interval of approximately thirty (30) seconds 
(adjustable), a warning tone shall sound and the door closing cycle shall 
commence at reduced speed and torque per applicable Code requirements.
J.
Car Light and Fran Timer: Provide necessary logic and power relay to allow car lights and fan 
to turn off.
2.17
MACHINE ROOM EQUIPMENT
A.
Pump Unit:
1.
Provide a new pump unit with oil heater.
2.
Provide an adjustable valve capable of making adjustment without removal from the 
oil line with manual lowering.
3.
Provide electronic soft start, design unit for 80 upstarts/hour.
4.
Provide a heavy duty muffler to reduce noise and vibration.
5.
Provide tank shut off valve for isolating oil in the pump unit.
6.
Replace all Victaulic gaskets in retained lines and fittings.
B.
Encoder: Provide new solid state encoder, driven by the elevator car to provide absolute 
digital hoistway position to elevator controller.
1.
Update car position at each floor so that movement to a terminal landing or other 
specific floor is not necessary to establish car position.
2.
Retain last known position in the event of power loss and automatically restore upon 
return of normal power. Include vanes and sensors to establish leveling and floor 
zones.
C.
Controller: New microprocessor based, UL/CSA labeled.
1.
Compartment: Provide listed enclosure, mounted on power unit or machine room 
136 of 517

--- page 137 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
wall with latching doors and means to prevent overheating.
2.
Provide a solid-state starter.
3.
Relay Design: Provide proven design with material for reliable operation without 
overheating or excessive wear. Provide wiping action and means to prevent sticking 
due to fusion. Contacts carrying high inductive currents shall be provided with arc 
deflectors or suppressors.
4.
The manufacturer’s standard on-board “LCD” display shall be incorporated on the 
main processor board and/or otherwise incorporated in the controller cabinet.
5.
Microprocessor-Related Hardware
a.
Provide power supplies with noise suppression devices.
b.
Isolate inputs from external devices.
c.
Design control circuits with adequate grounding.
d.
Safety circuits shall meet all requirements of the AHJ.
e.
System shall automatically restart when power is restored.
6.
Wiring: CSA labeled copper for factory wiring. Route all wiring interconnections and 
securely attach wiring connections to studs or terminals.
7.
Permanently label all components and wiring.
8.
Provide elevator designation identification numbers on controller enclosures.
D.
Muffler: Provide in discharge oil line near pump unit. Design shall dampen and absorb 
pulsation and noise in the flow of hydraulic fluid.
E.
Piping and Oil: Provide piping, connections and oil for the system. Buried piping shall be 
secondarily contained with watertight Schedule 40 PVC sleeves between elevator machine 
room and pit. A minimum of two sound isolation couplings shall be provided between the 
pump unit and oil line and the oil line and jack unit. Provide isolated pipe stands or hangers 
as required.
F.
Shutoff Valve: Manual valve in line adjacent to pump unit. Provide second valve in pit 
adjacent to jack unit.
2.18
HOISTWAY EQUIPMENT
A.
Guide Rails: Retain guide rails in place. Inspect rails, brackets and fishplates to determine if 
unfavorable conditions exist.
1.
Clean rails and brackets.  Remove rust.
2.
Check all rail and bracket fastenings and tighten.
B.
Buffers:  Retain existing.
1.
Clean and paint. Label pit equipment.
C.
Buffers: Provide new spring type with blocking and support channels.
D.
Hydraulic Jack Assembly: Retain and refurbish existing.
137 of 517

--- page 138 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
1.
Cylinder: Retain existing and repack. Provide automatic scavenger pump to collect 
oil at cylinder head and return automatically to oil reservoir. Provide cylinder 
stabilizer bracketing between guide rails as required.
2.
Plunger: Retain existing. Isolate plunger from car frame.
E.
Hydraulic Jack Assembly: New
1.
Cylinder: Seamless steel pipe. Design head to receive unit-type packing and provide 
means to collect oil at cylinder head and return automatically to oil reservoir. Provide 
sec- ondary containment/cylinder protection. Provide cylinder stabilizer bracketing 
between guide rails as required.
2.
Plunger: Single stage. Polished seamless steel tubing or pipe. If plunger length 
exceeds 24", provide two or more sections not exceeding 16" in length, or coordinate 
installation of longer unit at the jobsite. Join sections by internal threaded couplings. 
Multiple section jack units shall be factory polished while assembled and marked for 
proper future reas- sembly. Isolate plunger from car frame.
F.
Jack Support and Fluid Shut-Off Valve: Retain existing steel pit channels to support jack 
assembly and transmit loads to building structure. Provide intermediate stabilizers as 
required. Provide manual on/off valve in oil line adjacent to pump unit and jack unit in pit.
G.
Jack Support: Provide steel pit channels to support jack assembly and transmit loads to 
building structure. Provide intermediate stabilizers as required.
H.
Overspeed Valve: Provide a pressure sensitive, mechanically-actuated seismic safety valve, 
conforming to ASME A17.1. Connect valve directly to jack assembly inlet.
I.
Terminal Stopping:  Provide required normal and final devices.
J.
Electrical Wiring and Wiring Connections:
1.
All wiring shall be stranded copper conductors, manufactured in compliance with 
ANSI/ASTM B174-71 and UL 62requirements, and polyvinyl chloride insulation 
complying with ETT requirements of UL 62 and Article 400 of the National Electric Code.
2.
Electrical wiring provided for hoistway interlock shall be of a flame retardant type, 
capable of withstanding temperatures of at least 392 degrees Fahrenheit. Conductors 
shall be Type SF or equivalent.
3.
Conductors  and  Connections:
Copper  throughout  with  individual  wires  coded  
and connections on identified studs or terminal blocks.
4.
Provide 20% spare conductors throughout.
5.
Provide four pairs of spare shielded communication wires in addition to those 
required to connect specified items.  Tag spares in machine room.
6.
Conduit: Painted or galvanized steel conduit, EMT or duct. Conduit size, 1/2” minimum. 
Flexible heavy-duty service cord may be used between fixed car wiring and car door 
switches for door protective devices.
7.
Traveling Cables: Flame and moisture-resistant outer cover. Install traveling to 
prevent twisting and rubbing against hoistway or equipment within hoistway.
8.
Auxiliary Wiring:  Connect all devices in each car controller in machine room.
138 of 517

--- page 139 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
K.
Hoistway Entrance Equipment: Retain and refurbish existing entrances. Refurbish/replace 
and adjust assemblies to ensure smooth and quiet mechanical open and close of doors.
1.
Door Hangers and Rollers: provide new hangers and rollers.
2.
Door Track: Provide new tracks.
3.
Door Safety Retainers: provide safety retainers as required by ASME A17.1.
4.
Door Interlocks: Replace all interlocks and relating equipment.
5.
Door Closers:  Provide new door closing equipment.
L.
Hoistway Access Switches: Provide new switch at top and bottom floors.
M.
Floor Numbers: Stencil paint 4" high floor designations in contrasting color on inside face of 
hoistway doors or hoistway fascia in location visible from within car.
2.19
HOISTWAY ENTRANCES
A.
Frames: Retain existing. Fix entrance at lobby. Provide Arabic floor designation/Braille 
plates, centered at 60" above finished floor, on both side jambs of all entrances
B.
Door Panels:  Retain existing.  Provide new gibs and fire tabs.
C.
Sight Guards:  Retain existing.  Replace damaged astragals.
D.
Sills:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all sill fastenings.
E.
Sill Supports:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
F.
Fascia, Toe Guards and Hanger Covers: Retain existing. Provide as required where damaged 
or missing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
G.
Struts and Headers:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
2.20
CAR EQUIPMENT
A.
Frame: Retain Existing. Check and tighten all fastenings. Individual car frame members, 
platform isolation framework, door operator support structure, related bracing and hardware 
shall be inspected for any indication of damage or distortion
B.
Platform:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
C.
Platform Apron:  Provide new extended platform apron to meet Code.
D.
Guide Shoes: Provide new. Roller type with three or more spring dampened, sound-
deadening rollers per shoe and seismic retainer plates.
139 of 517

--- page 140 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
E.
Finish Floor Covering:
1.
Coordinate with Owner’s installer if new finish floor coverings are selected.
F.
Sills:  Retain existing.  Check and tighten all fastenings.
G.
Doors: Provide new 16-gauge steel, sandwich construction without binder angles. Provide a 
minimum of two (2) gibs per panel. Construct door panels with interlocking, stiffening ribs. 
Stainless steel #4 metal cladding shall wrap around leading and trailing edge of panel and 
return a minimum of 1/2" on rear side of leading edge of panel.
H.
Door Hangers and Rollers: Provide new. Two-point hanger roller with polyurethane roller 
surface and suspension with eccentric upthrust roller adjustment.
I.
Door Track:  Provide new steel track with smooth roller contact surface.
J.
Door Header: Provide a new door header configured for new door operator with stiffening 
flanges.
K.
Door Electrical Contact:  Provide new electrical contact.
L.
Door Clutch: Provide a new heavy-duty clutch, linkage arms and all relating components to 
provide quiet door operation. Design clutch so car doors can be closed, while hoistway doors 
remain open.
M.
Restricted Opening Device: Prevent car door opening outside the unlocking zone without 
plunger restrictor.
N.
Door Operator: Provide a heavy-duty door operator on top of the elevator car enclosure for 
power opening and closing of the cab and hoistway entrance door panels. Provide solid-state 
door control with closed loop programmable circuitry. Provide consistent regardless of door 
weight or hoistway air pressure stack effect or varying conditions. Provide door opening speed  
averaging
1.5 feet per second and door closing speed of 1.0 feet per second. The door shall operate 
smoothly without a slam or abrupt motion in both the opening and closing cycle directions.
U.
Reduce the closing speed as required to limit kinetic energy of closing doors to within values 
permitted by ASME A17.1 as may be adopted and/or modified by the AHJ.
V.
Door Reopening Device:
1.
Infrared Reopening Device: Provide infra-red reopening device the entire opening of 
the door. In event of device failure, provide for automatic shutdown of car at floor level 
with doors open.
2.
Nudging Operation: Provide nudging to limit speed and torque in conjunction with door 
close signaling/closing and timing devices as permitted by ASME A17.1 as may be 
adopted and/or modified by the AHJ. Nudging shall be initiated by the signal control 
140 of 517

--- page 141 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
system and not from the door protective device.
3.
Interrupted Beam Time: When reopening device is interrupted during initial door 
opening, hold door open a minimum of 3.0 seconds. When reopening device is 
interrupted after the initial 3.0 second hold open time, reduce time doors remain open 
to an adjustable time of approximately 1.0 - 1.5 seconds after beams are reestablished.
4.
Door Timing: Adjust doors remain open after stopping in response to calls with the 
following:
a.
Car Call:  Car door hold open time adjusted between 3.0 and 5.0 seconds.
b.
Hall Call:  Hall door hold open time adjusted between 5.0 and 8.0 seconds.
W.
Car Operating Panel:
1.
Provide one stainless car operating panel with vandal resistant operating fixtures 
mounted behind the car stationary front return panel. Faceplate shall be hinged and 
constructed of satin finish stainless steel.
2.
Provide Braille to the left of operating buttons. Designations minimum of 5/8” high, 
0.03” raised and stud mounted.
3.
Provide “star” at main egress landing.
4.
Configure plates per local building code accessibility standards including Braille.
5.
Provide minimum 3/4" diameter raised floor pushbuttons which illuminate to indicate 
call registration.
6.
Provide alarm button to ring bell located on car control panel with illumination.
7.
Provide keyed stop switch in locked car service compartment.
8.
Provide “door open” button.
9.
Provide “door close” button engage door close cycle.
10.
Provide firefighters’ Phase II key switch with engraved instructions filled red.
11.
Provide self-locking service compartment with recessed flush door with matching 
finish and engraved capacity.
12.
Include the following in lockable service cabinet:
a.
Inspection switch.
b.
Light switch.
c.
Fan switch.
d.
Independent service switch.
e.
Constant pressure test button for battery pack emergency lighting.
f.
120-volt, AC, GFCI protected electrical convenience outlet.
g.
Card reader override switch.
h.
Stop switch.
i.
Switch to select either floor voice annunciation, floor passing tone, or chime.
j.
Car lighting dimmer switch.
13.
Provide paint filled etched signage as follows:
a.
Phase II firefighters’ operating instructions.
b.
Car number on main car operating panel.
c.
Car capacity in pounds on service compartment door.
X.
Car Top Control Station: Mount on cartop handrail to provide safe access and operation 
while standing on cartop.
141 of 517

--- page 142 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
Y.
Work Light and Duplex Plug Receptacle: GFCI protected outlet at top of car with LED 
guarded lamps.  Include on/off switch and lamp guard.
Z.
Communication System:
1.
A hands-free emergency voice communication system shall be furnished in each car 
mounted as an integral part of the car operating panel. System shall meet CBC 2019 
requirements.
2.
Provide a 4 hour power supply for communication devices under power loss.
3.
Provide two-way communication between car and emergency personnel if required.
2.21
CAR ENCLOSURE
A.
Car Enclosure: Retain existing car shell and interior. Apply sound-deadening mastic to 
exterior. Remove cartop rust and paint cartop. Provide required modifications for new 
signal and pushbutton fixtures. Check and tighten all fasteners. Remove existing interior 
finishes, weigh, and document. Check and tighten all fastenings. Provide new interior 
finishes as specified herein. Verify weight of new interior finishes does not exceed weight 
of removed finishes by more than code allowable. Provide the following features:
1.
Shell: Retain existing
2.
Canopy: Retain existing
3.
Front Return Panels and Integral Entrance Columns: retain, remove all scratches.
4.
Transom: retain, remove all scratches.
5.
Car Door Panels: Provide new.
6.
Base: Stainless steel with concealed ventilation cutouts.
7.
Interior wall finish: Removable panels, faced and edged, with color core plastic lami- 
nate. Design to be in-kind. Color and finish as selected by owner. Rear wall panel 
shall meet code requirements for glass.
8.
Ventilation: Two-speed model exhaust blower mounted to car canopy on isolated 
rubber grommets. Exhaust blower shall meet requirements of Item 2.3, G. 
Ventilation shall shut off after adjustable period (60 – 180 seconds) of no elevator 
demand.
9.
Lighting: Provide LED fixtures with wiring and hookup. Coordinate with emergency 
lighting requirements. Lighting shall shut off after adjustable period (60 – 180 
seconds) of no elevator demand. Provide emergency lighting integral with portion 
of normal car lighting system.  Include required transformer.
10.
Suspended Ceiling : Three section, 6 stainless steel panels mounted in an extruded 
alumi- num angle and T-frame.
11.
Handrails:  Minimum 1-1/4" diameter aluminum tubular grab bar across rear wall.
12.
Pads and Buttons or Hooks: Three-piece removable pads. Two pads covering side 
walls and adjacent front returns and one covering rear wall. Provide cutouts to access 
main car operating panel.
142 of 517

--- page 143 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
B.
Top of Car Guardrail: Provide car top railings where fall hazard exceeds 12". Install guardrails, 
necessary hardware and toe board to meet code requirements.
2.22
HALL CONTROL STATIONS
A.
Hall Call Control Stations: Provide new flush mounted hall call riser adjacent to each hoistway 
entrances. Pushbutton design shall match car operating panel pushbuttons with vandal 
resistant pushbutton assemblies. Provide enlarged faceplate to cover existing wall blockout. 
Provide appendix H pictorial signs.  Provide cutting, patching and touchup painting around 
hall stations.
2.23
SIGNALS
A.
Car Direction Lantern Car 1: Provide new replacement car lantern in entrance columns. 
Illuminate up or down LED lights with electronic tone. Sound tone once for up direction and 
twice for down direction. Sound level shall be adjustable from 0 - 80 dBA measured at 5'-0" 
in front of hall control station and 3'-0" off floor. Provide ADA compliant hall call and dwell 
time. Car direction signals shall be arrow shaped minimum 2-1/2" dimension. Provide vandal 
resistant lantern and light assemblies consisting of series of dots or lines for maximum 
visibility.
B.
Hall position indicator car 1 numeric digital indicator containing floor designations and 
direction arrows a minimum of 1/2" high to indicate floor served and direction of car travel. 
Mount integral with hall lanterns at all floors.
C.
Car Position Indicator:  Provide digital indicator in car operating panel.
D.
Faceplate Material and Finish: Satin stainless, all fixtures.
E.
Floor Passing Tone:  Provide an audible tone.
F.
Voice Synthesizer: Provide electronic device with easily reprogrammable message and 
female voice to announce car direction, floor, emergency exiting instructions, etc.
2.24
SEISMIC OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT
A.
Provide design, components, and operation per governing code.
PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.9
SITE CONDITION INSPECTION
A.
Inspection
143 of 517

--- page 144 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
1.
Study the Contract Documents with regard to the work as specified and required so as 
to ensure its completeness.
2.
Examine surface and conditions to which this work is to be attached or applied and 
notify the Owner in writing if conditions or surfaces are detrimental to the proper and 
expeditious installation of the work. Starting the work shall imply acceptance of the 
surfaces and conditions to perform the work as specified.
3.
Verify, by measurements at the project, dimensions affecting the work. Bring field 
dimensions which are at variance with those on the accepted shop drawings to the 
attention of the Owner. Obtain the decision regarding corrective measures before the 
start of fabrication of items affected.
4.
Coordinate the scheduling of the work of this section with the work of other sections 
so as not to delay job progress.
3.10
PRODUCT DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLING
A.
Deliver material in Contractor’s original, unopened protective packaging.
B.
Store material in original protective packaging. Prevent soiling, physical damage, or 
moisture damage.
C.
Protect equipment and exposed finishes from damage and stains during transportation, 
erection, and construction.
3.11
INSTALLATION
A.
Modernize the elevators in accordance with Contractor’s instructions, referenced Codes, 
specification and approved shop drawings.
B.
Install all equipment with clearances in accordance with Codes and specification of the AHJ.
C.
Provide coordination of modernization items for ease of accessibility, maintenance and 
repair.
D.
Remove oil, dirt and impurities and give a factory coat of rust inhibitive paint to all exposed 
surfaces of struts, hanger supports, covers, fascia, toe guards, dust covers and other ferrous 
metal.
E.
Paint machine room and pit floors.
3.12
FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
A.
A.Contractor is responsible for Code Authority acceptance inspection performed and 
complete corrective work. Re-inspection costs due to the Contractor shall be included at no 
cost by the Contractor.
144 of 517

--- page 145 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
3.13
ADJUSTMENTS
A.
Verify alignment of rails within of 1/16" in 100'-0". Provide rail alignment and secure joints 
without gaps and file any irregularities to a smooth surface.
B.
Balance car to equalize pressure of guide shoes on guide rails.
C.
Lubricate all equipment in accordance with Manufacturer’s MCP recommendations.
3.14
CLEANING
A.
Adequately protect surfaces against accumulation of paint, mortar, mastic or damage during 
shipment and installation.
B.
Keep work areas clean during the progress of project.  Remove debris materials daily.
C.
Clean machine room equipment and floor.
D.
Remove all protective packaging and clean hoistway, car, car enclosure, entrances, operating 
and signal fixtures.
3.15
ACCEPTANCE REVIEW AND TESTS
A.
Contractor is responsible for Code Authority acceptance inspection performed and complete 
corrective work. Re-inspection costs due to the Contractor shall be included at no cost by the 
Contractor.
3.16
PURCHASER’S INFORMATION
A.
See Section 01700, Final Contract Compliance Review.
END OF SECTION
SECTION 055000 - METAL FABRICATIONS
3. PART 1  GENERAL
145 of 517

--- page 146 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
1.1   SECTION INCLUDES
A.
Shop fabricated ferrous metal items and prime painted.
B.
Schedule of metal fabrications.
1.5
REFERENCES
A.
ASTM A36 - Structural Steel.
B.
ASTM A53 - Pipe, Steel, Black and Hot-Dipped, Zinc-Coated, Welded and Seamless.
C.
ASTM A123 - Zinc (Hot-Dip Galvanized) Coatings on Iron and Steel Products.
D.
ASTM A153 - Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on Iron and Steel Hardware.
E.
ASTM A307 - Carbon Steel Externally Threaded Standard Fasteners.
F.
ASTM A492 - Standard Specification for Stainless Steel Rope Wire.
G.
ASTM A500 - Cold-Formed Welded and Seamless Carbon Steel Structural Tubing in Rounds 
and Shapes.
H.
ASTM A780 - Repair of Damaged and Uncoated Areas of Hot-Dip Galvanized Coatings
I.
AWS A2.4 - Standard Welding Symbols.
J.
AWS D1.1 - Structural Welding Code - Steel.
1.6
QUALIFICATIONS
A.
Welders' Certificates: Submit under provisions of Section 01 33 00, certifying welders 
employed on the Work, verifying AWS qualification within the previous 12 months.
1.7
FIELD MEASUREMENTS
A.
Verify that field measurements are as indicated on Drawings.
4. PART 2  PRODUCTS
2.2
MATERIALS
A.
Steel Sections: ASTM A36.
146 of 517

--- page 147 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
B.
Steel Tubing: ASTM A500, Grade B.
C.
Plates: ASTM A36.
D.
Pipe: ASTM A53, Grade B, Schedule 40.
E.
Bolts, Nuts, and Washers: ASTM A307 galvanized to ASTM A153 for galvanized 
components.
F.
Welding Materials: AWS D1.1; type required for materials being welded.
G.
Shop and Touch Up Primer: SSPC 15, Type 1, red oxide.
H.
Touch-Up Primer for Galvanized Surfaces: SSPC 20.
2.4
FABRICATION, GENERAL
A.
Fit and shop assemble in largest practical sections, for delivery to site.
B.
Fabricate items with joints tightly fitted and secured.
C.
Continuously seal joined members by continuous welds unless indicated otherwise.
D.
Grind exposed joints flush and smooth with adjacent finish surface. Make exposed joints 
butt tight, flush, and hairline. Ease exposed edges to small uniform radius.
E.
Exposed Mechanical Fastenings: Flush countersunk screws or bolts; unobtrusively located; 
consistent with design of component, except where specifically noted otherwise.
F.
Supply components required for anchorage of fabrications. Fabricate anchors and related 
components of same material and finish as fabrication, except where specifically noted 
otherwise.
2.5
FINISHES
A.
Clean surfaces of rust, scale, grease, and foreign matter prior to finishing.
B.
Do not prime surfaces in direct contact with concrete or where field welding is required.
C.
Prime paint items with one coat.
D.
Galvanize assembled items to minimum 1.25 oz/sq ft zinc coating in accordance with ASTM 
A123.
E.
Repair damaged galvanized surfaces in accordance with ASTM A780 Method A2.
F.
Finish: Site paint exposed to view prime painted items under provisions of Section 09 90 00.
147 of 517

--- page 148 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
4. PART 3  EXECUTION
3.1   EXAMINATION
A.
Verify that field conditions are acceptable and are ready to receive work.
B.
Beginning of installation means erector accepts existing conditions.
3.4
PREPARATION
A.
Clean and strip primed steel items to bare metal where site welding is required.
B.
Supply items required to be cast into concrete or embedded in masonry with setting 
templates, to appropriate sections.
3.5
INSTALLATION
A.
Install items plumb and level, accurately fitted, free from distortion or defects.
B.
Allow for erection loads, and for sufficient temporary bracing to maintain true alignment 
until completion of erection and installation of permanent attachments.
C.
Field weld components indicated on Drawings.
D.
Perform field welding in accordance with AWS D1.1.
E.
After erection, prime welds, abrasions, and surfaces not shop primed, except surfaces to be in 
contact with concrete.
3.5
SCHEDULE
A.
The Schedule is a list of principal items only. Refer to Drawing details for items not 
specifically scheduled.
B.
Miscellaneous Framing and Supports: Steel not a part of structural steel framework as 
required to complete work; prime paint finish.
C.
Bollards: Steel pipe, concrete filled, crowned cap, as detailed; prime paint finish.
D.
Opening Frames for Overhead Doors and Wall Openings: Structural sections; prime paint 
finish.
E.
Elevator Hoist Way Beams: Structural sections as detailed, prime paint finish.
F.
Elevator Door Sill Supports:  Steel shapes as detailed, prime paint finish.
148 of 517

--- page 149 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
END OF SECTION
SECTION 099000 – PAINTING
2. PART 1  GENERAL
1.1   SECTION INCLUDES
A.
Surface preparation.
B.
Products and application.
C.
Surface finish schedule.
1.3
SUMMARY OF PAINTED SUBSTRATES
A.
Section includes the application of paint systems on the following interior substrates:
1.
Primed or unprimed steel.
2.
Galvanized metal.
3.
Steel handrails, guardrails and fittings.
4.
Steel doors, frames and lights.
5.
Access doors and frames.
6.
Horizontal and vertical gypsum board.
7.
Plaster.
8.
Wall louvers.
9.
Electrical panel board covers.
B.
Section includes the application of paint systems on the following exterior substrates:
1.
Concrete.
2.
Primed or unprimed steel.
3.
Decorative metal fencing.
4.
Bollards.
149 of 517

--- page 150 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
5.
Sheet metal flashing and trim.
6.
Sheet metal gutters and downspouts.
7.
Steel pipe downspouts.
8.
Steel doors, frames and lights.
9.
Glass frames in steel and wood doors.
10.
Portland cement plaster (stucco).
11.
Wall louvers.
12.
Mechanical roof mounted equipment.
13.    Electrical panel board covers.
C. Substrate listings are for principal surfaces only. Refer to drawings, details and individual 
specification sections for items, surfaces, and substrates not specifically listed.
1.8
REFERENCES
A.
ASTM D16 - Definitions of Terms Relating to Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related 
Products.
B.
SSPC - The Society for Protective Coatings.
1.9
SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
A.
Preparation of all surfaces to receive final finish.
B.
Painting and finishing work of this section using coating systems of materials including 
primers, sealers, fillers, and other applied materials whether used as prime, intermediate, or 
finish coats.
C.
Surface preparation, priming, and finish coats specified in this Section are in addition to shop-
priming and surface treatment specified under other Sections.
D.
Painting and finishing all exterior and interior surfaces of materials including structural, 
mechanical, and electrical work on site, in building spaces, and above or on the roof.
E.
Paint exposed surfaces except where a surface or material is specifically indicated not to be 
painted or is to remain natural. Where an item or surface is not specifically mentioned, paint the 
same as similar adjacent materials or surfaces.
1.10 DEFINITIONS
A.
Conform to ASTM D16 for interpretation of terms used in this Section.
150 of 517

--- page 151 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
1.11 QUALITY ASSURANCE
A.
Product Manufacturer: Company specializing in manufacturing quality paint and finish 
products with five years experience.
B.
Applicator: Company specializing in commercial painting and finishing with five years 
documented experience.
C.
Coats: The number of coats specified is the minimum number acceptable. If full coverage is 
not obtained with the specified number of coats, apply such additional coats as are necessary 
to produce the required finish.
D.
Employ coats and undercoats for all types of finishes in strict accordance with the 
recommendations of the paint manufacturer.
E.
Provide primers and undercoat paint produced by the same manufacturer as the finish coat.
F.
The minimum dry film thickness of each coat of paint shall comply with the manufacturer's 
recommendations for each type of paint used.
1.12 REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
A.
Comply with applicable codes and regulations of governmental agencies having jurisdiction 
including those having jurisdiction over airborne emissions and industrial waste disposal. 
Where those requirements conflict with this specification, comply with the more stringent 
provisions.
B.
Comply with the current applicable regulations of the California Air Resources Board 
(CARB) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
1.13 SUBMITTALS
A.
Submit product data under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
Submit samples under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
C.
Submit two samples 8-1/2 x 11 inch in size of each paint color and texture applied to 
cardboard. Resubmit samples until acceptable color, sheen and texture is obtained.
D.
On same species and quality of wood to be installed, submit two 4 x 8 inch samples showing 
system to be used for varnishes and stains.
1.14 FIELD SAMPLES
A.
Provide field samples under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
On wall surfaces and other exterior and interior components, duplicate specified  finishes 
on at least   100 sq.ft. of surface area.
151 of 517

--- page 152 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
C.
Provide full-coat finishes until required coverage, sheen, color and texture are obtained.
D.
Simulate finished lighting conditions for review of field samples.
E.
After finishes are accepted, the accepted surface may remain as part of the work and will be 
used to evaluate subsequent coating systems applications of a similar nature.
1.15 DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLING
A.
Deliver products to site and store and protect under provisions of City’s Division 01 General 
Requirements.
B.
Deliver products to site in sealed and labeled containers; inspect to verify acceptance.
C.
Container labeling to include manufacturer's name, type of paint, brand name, brand code, 
coverage, surface preparation, drying time, cleanup, color designation, and instructions for 
mixing and reducing. Paint containers not displaying product identification will not be 
acceptable.
D.
Store paint materials at minimum ambient temperature of 50 degrees F and a maximum of 
90 degrees F, in well ventilated area, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's 
instructions.
E.
Take precautionary measures to prevent fire hazards and spontaneous combustion.
1.16 ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
A.
Provide continuous ventilation and heating facilities to maintain interior surface and ambient 
temperatures above 50 degrees F with a maximum humidity level of 50 percent for 24 hours 
before, during, and 48 hours after application of finishes, unless required otherwise by 
manufacturer's instructions.
B.
Do not apply exterior coatings during rain or snow, or when relative humidity is above 50 
percent, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
C.
Minimum Application Temperatures for Latex Paints: 50 degrees F for interiors; 50 degrees 
F for exterior; unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
D.
Minimum Application Temperature for Varnish and Urethane Finishes: 65 degrees F for 
interior or exterior, unless required otherwise by manufacturer's instructions.
E.
Provide lighting level of 80 foot candles measured mid-height at substrate surface.
1.17 EXTRA MATERIAL
A.
Provide a one gallon unopened container of each color to Owner.
B.
Label each container with color, texture, and room locations in addition to the manufacturer's 
label.
152 of 517

--- page 153 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
4. PART 2  PRODUCTS
2.1   ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURERS - PAINT
A.
Unless specifically identified otherwise, product designations included in this section are 
those that are manufactured and distributed by the Dunn-Edwards Corporation, 
www.dunnedwards.com and shall serve as the basis of design standard for kind, quality, 
performance and function.
B.
Subject to full compliance with specified requirements, other manufacturers offering 
equivalent products are:
1.
Benjamin Moore Paints, www.benjaminmoore.com.
2.
Kelly-Moore Paint Company, www.kellymoore.com.
3.
Sherwin Williams, www.sherwin-williams.com.
4.
Vista Paint Corporation, www.vistapaint.com.
C.
Substitutions: Under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
2.4
MATERIALS
A.
Ready mixed, except field catalyzed coatings. Process pigments to a soft paste consistency, 
capable of being readily and uniformly dispersed to a homogeneous coating.
B.
Good flow and brushing properties; capable of drying or curing free of streaks or sags.
C.
“Deep Tone” colors to be composed of 100 percent acrylic pigments with a colored base.
D.
Accessory Materials: Linseed oil, shellac, turpentine, paint thinners and other materials not 
specifically indicated but required to achieve the finishes specified, of commercial quality.
2.5
FINISHES
A.
Refer to schedule at end of Section for surface finish schedule.
5. PART 3  EXECUTION
3.2
INSPECTION
A.
Verify that surfaces are ready to receive work as instructed by the product manufacturer.
B.
Examine surfaces to be finished prior to commencement of work. Report any condition that 
may potentially affect proper application.
153 of 517

--- page 154 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
C.
Measure moisture content of surfaces using an electronic moisture meter. Do not apply 
finishes unless moisture content of surfaces are below the following maximums:
1.
Plaster and Gypsum Wallboard
:
12 percent.
2.
Masonry, Concrete, and Concrete Unit Masonry :
12 percent.
3.
Interior Located Wood
:
15 percent.
4.
Exterior Located Wood
:
15 percent.
D.
Beginning of installation means acceptance of existing surfaces.
3.6
SURFACE PREPARATION - GENERAL
A.
Remove electrical plates, hardware, light fixture trim, and fittings prior to preparing surfaces 
or finishing.
B.
Remove all finish hardware from doors and frames prior to preparing surfaces or finishing.
C.
Correct minor defects and clean surfaces which affect work of this Section.
D.
Gypsum Board: Repair all voids, nicks, cracks and dents with patching materials and finish 
flush with adjacent surface. Latex fill minor defects. Spot prime defects after repair.
E.
Plaster: Fill hairline cracks, small holes, and imperfections with latex patching plaster. 
Make smooth and flush with adjacent surfaces. Wash and neutralize high alkali surfaces.
F.
Uncoated Steel and Iron: Remove grease, scale, dirt, and rust. Where heavy coatings of scale 
are evident, remove by wire brushing or sandblasting; clean by washing with solvent. Apply 
a treatment of phosphoric acid solution, ensuring weld joints, bolts, and nuts are similarly 
cleaned. Prime paint after repairs.
G.
Shop Primed Steel: Sand and scrape to remove loose primer and rust. Feather edges to 
make touch-up patches inconspicuous. Clean surfaces with solvent. Prime paint steel 
surfaces.
H.
Exterior Wood: Remove dust, grit, and foreign matter. Seal knots, pitch streaks, and sappy 
sections. Fill nail holes with tinted exterior caulking compound after prime coat has been 
applied.
I.
Wood Doors: Seal top and bottom edges with 2 coats of spar varnish sealer.
3.7
PROTECTION OF ADJACENT WORK
A.
Protect elements surrounding the work of this Section from damage or disfiguration.
B.
Repair damage to other surfaces caused by work of this Section.
154 of 517

--- page 155 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
C.
Furnish drop cloths, shields, and protective methods to prevent spray or droppings from 
disfiguring other surfaces.
D.
Remove empty paint containers from site.
3.8
WORK NOT TO BE PAINTED
A.
Painting is not required on surfaces in concealed and inaccessible areas such as furred spaces, 
foundation spaces, utility tunnels, pipe spaces and duct shafts.
B.
Do not paint metal surfaces such as stainless steel, chromium plate, brass, bronze, and 
similar finished metal surfaces.
C.
Do not paint anodized aluminum or other surfaces which are specified to be factory pre-
finished.
D.
Do not paint sandblasted or architecturally finished concrete surfaces.
E.
Do not paint prefinished acoustic materials or acoustic suspension systems.
F.
Do not paint over Underwriters Laboratories, Factory Mutual or other code-required labels or 
identifications.
3.9
APPLICATION
A.
Apply products in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
B.
Do not apply finishes to surfaces that are not dry.
C.
Apply prime coat to surfaces which are to be painted or finished.
D.
Apply each coat to uniform finish.
Q.
Apply each coat of paint slightly darker than preceding coat unless otherwise approved.
R.
Sand lightly between coats to achieve required finish.
S.
Allow applied coat to dry before next coat is applied.
T.
The number of coats specified is the minimum that shall be applied. Apply additional coats 
when undercoats, stains or other conditions show through final paint coat, until paint film is of 
uniform finish, color and appearance.
U.
Where clear finishes are required, tint fillers to match wood. Work fillers into the grain 
before set. Wipe excess from surface.
V.
Prime back surfaces of interior and exterior woodwork with primer paint.
155 of 517

--- page 156 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
W.
Prime back surfaces of interior woodwork scheduled to receive stain or varnish finish with 
gloss varnish reduced 25 percent with mineral spirits.
X.
Paint mill finished door seals to match door or frame.
Y.
Paint primed steel glazing stops in doors to match door or frame.
Z.
Cloudiness, spotting, lap marks, brush marks, runs, sags, spikes and other surface 
imperfections will not be acceptable.
AA. Where spray application is used, apply each coat of the required thickness. Do not double 
back to build up film thickness of two coats in one pass.
BB. Where roller application is used, roll and redistribute paint to an even and fine texture. Leave 
no evidence of roller laps, irregularity of texture, skid marks, or other surface imperfections.
3.7
FINISHING MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT]
A.
Paint shop primed equipment. Do not paint shop prefinished items.
B.
Remove unfinished louvers, grilles, covers, and access panels on mechanical and electrical 
components and paint separately.
C.
Prime and paint insulated and exposed pipes, conduit, boxes, insulated and exposed ducts, 
hangers, brackets, collars and supports, except where items are prefinished.
D.
Replace identification markings on mechanical or electrical equipment when painted 
accidentally.
E.
Paint interior surfaces of air ducts, and connector and baseboard heating cabinets that are 
visible through grilles and louvers with one coat of flat black paint, to limit of sight line. Paint 
dampers exposed behind louvers, grilles, and connector and baseboard cabinets to match face 
panels.
F.
Paint exposed conduit and electrical equipment occurring in finished areas.
G.
Paint both sides and edges of plywood backboards for electrical and telephone equipment 
before installing equipment.
H.
Replace electrical plates, hardware, light fixture trim, and fittings removed prior to finishing.
I.
Paint grilles, registers, and diffusers which do not match color of adjacent surface.
J.
Paint all mechanical and electrical equipment, vents, fans, and the like occurring on roof.
K.
Do not paint moving parts of operating units; mechanical or electrical parts such as valve 
operators; linkages; sensing devices; and motor shafts.
L.
Do not paint over labels or equipment identification markings.
156 of 517

--- page 157 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
O.
Do not paint mechanical room specialties such as compressors, boilers, pumps, control 
panels, etc.
P.
Do not paint switch plates, light fixtures, and fixture lenses.
3.12 CLEANING
A.
As Work proceeds, promptly remove paint where spilled, splashed, or spattered.
B.
During progress of Work maintain premises free of unnecessary accumulation of tools, 
equipment, surplus materials, and debris.
C.
Collect cotton waste, cloths, and material which may constitute a fire hazard, place in 
closed metal containers and remove daily from site.
3.13 PROTECTION OF COMPLETED WORK
A.
Protect finished installation under provisions of City’s Division 01 General Requirements.
B.
Erect barriers and post warning signs. Maintain in place until coatings are fully dry.
C.
Confirm that no dust generating activities will occur following application of coatings.
3.14 PATCHING
A.
After completion of painting in any one room or area, repair surfaces damaged by other 
trades.
B.
Touch-up or re-finish as required to produce intended appearance.
3.15 FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
A.
Field inspection and testing will be performed under provisions of City’s Division 01 General 
Requirements.
B.
The Owner reserves the right to invoke the following test procedure at any time and as often 
as the Owner deems necessary.
C.
The Owner will engage the services of an independent testing agency to sample paint material 
being used.
D.
Samples of material delivered to the Project will be taken, identified, sealed, and certified in 
the presence of the Contractor.
E.
The testing agency will perform appropriate quantitive materials analysis and other 
characteristic testing of materials as required by the Owner.
157 of 517

--- page 158 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
F.
If test results show materials being used and their installation do not comply with specified 
requirements or manufacturer's recommendations, the Contractor may be directed to stop 
painting, remove noncomplying paint, pay for testing and repaint surfaces to acceptable 
condition.
3.16 COLOR SCHEDULE
A.
Paint and finish colors shall be selected by the Architect from manufacturer's entire range of 
standard and custom color selections and special colors selected to match or compliment the 
colors of other materials, equipment, or components which comprise the work.
B.
Access doors, registers, exposed piping, electrical conduit and mechanical/electrical panels: 
Generally the same color as adjacent walls.
C.
Exterior and interior steel doors, frames and trim: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent 
walls.
D.
Doors generally are all the same color, but of a contrasting color from frame and trim.
E.
Exterior and interior steel fabrications: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent walls.
I.
Exposed interior mechanical/ductwork: Generally a contrasting color to adjacent walls or 
ceiling.
J.
Ceilings are generally to be painted a different color than walls.
K.
Approximately 20 percent of overall painting work will be required to be "Deep Tone" 
colors. This work will require one additional coat of paint beyond that as specified.
3.14 SCHEDULE - EXTERIOR SURFACES
A.
Concrete (Flat Acrylic)
1st coat:
ESPROO Eff-Stop Premium
2nd coat:
EVSH10 Evershield
3rd coat:
EVSH10 Evershield
B.
Cement Plaster (Flat Elastomeric)
1st coat:
FPSL00 Flex Prime Select
2nd coat:
EDLX10 Enduralastic 10
3rd coat:
EDLX10 Enduralastic 10
C.
Steel - Primed or Unprimed (Eggshell Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
BRPR00 Bloc-Rust Premium
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
D.
Steel - Galvanized (Eggshell Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
Supreme Chemical Metal Clean and Etch SCME-
158 of 517

--- page 159 ---
2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE
CENTRAL GARAGE 
                                                                                                    ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION 
  CITY PROJECT NUMBER 46F035
01
2nd coat:
ULGM00 Ultrashield Galvanized Metal Primer
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
4th coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3.15 SCHEDULE - INTERIOR SURFACES
A.
Steel - Primed or Unprimed (Eggshell, Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
BRPR00 Bloc-Rust Premium
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
B.
Steel - Galvanized (Eggshell, Urethane Alkyd Enamel)
1st coat:
ULGM00 Ultrashield Galvanized Metal Primer
2nd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
3rd coat:
ASHL30 Aristoshield
E.
Gypsum Board (Eggshell Acrylic)
1st coat:
VNPROO Vinylastic Premium
2nd coat:
SPMA30 Suprema
3rd coat:
SPMA30 Suprema
F.
Gypsum Board (Semi-Gloss Acrylic)
1st coat:
VNPROO Vinylastic Premium
2nd coat:
SPMA50 Suprema
3rd coat:
SPMA50 Suprema
END OF SECTION
159 of 517

--- page 160 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 24-8416
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Usage of San Mateo County Sheriff's Office Coyote Point Police Training Center and Firing Range Facilities – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for use of the Coyote Point training center and firing range facilities 
through June 30, 2025 in an amount not to exceed $20,000; and authorize the Chief of Police or his designee to execute 
the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The County of San Mateo is the owner of a law enforcement training center and firing range located at Coyote Point.  The 
San Mateo Police Department desires to use these facilities for the purpose of training and qualifying law enforcement 
personnel in the use of firearms.  The San Mateo Police Department has an indoor firing facility; however, the Coyote Point 
facilities are much larger and include an outdoor range, an indoor simulated residence or office space, as well as several 
classrooms.  For department-wide training days where a large number of police officers are receiving training at the same 
time, it is highly efficient to utilize the county facilities. The term of the proposed agreement would end June 30, 2025, and 
fees would be paid to the County on a per-use basis, depending on the facilities used. It is City policy that inter-
governmental agreements be approved by the City Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The cost for staff to use the Coyote Point facilities are estimated to not exceed $10,000 annually and funding is available in 
the Police Department's operating budget for this purpose. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
160 of 517

--- page 161 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Anthony Riccardi, Lieutenant
ariccardi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522- 7689
161 of 517

--- page 162 ---
AGREEMENT 
FOR USE OF THE SAN MATEO COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE 
COYOTE POINT RIFLE AND PISTOL RANGE  
AGREEMENT NO. 
 
Entity Name and Address (“Entity”): 
SAN MATEO POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
Entity:  Upon receipt of an invoice, mail payment to: 
 
Department: San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office 
200 FRANKLIN PKWY 
 
Attention:     Fiscal Services Bureau 
SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
 
Address:      400 County Center, 3rd Floor 
Contact: Anthony Riccardi, Lieutenant 
 
                     Redwood City, CA  94063 
Email:  ariccardi@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
For invoice or billing inquiries, please call (650) 363-4061 
 
It is agreed between the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office, California (“County”), and SAN MATEO POLICE 
DEPARTMENT as follows: 
1. Services to be performed by Contractor.  In consideration of the payments hereinafter set forth, County 
shall perform services for Entity in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications set forth herein and 
in Exhibit A attached hereto.  
2. Contract Term.  The term of this Agreement shall be from 9/1/2023 to 6/30/2025 unless terminated earlier by 
the County. 
3. Payments.  In consideration of the services rendered in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth herein and any Exhibit(s) or attachment(s) attached hereto, Entity shall make payment to 
County in the manner specified herein and in Exhibit A.  In the event that the Entity makes any advance 
payments, County agrees to refund any amounts in excess of the amount owed by the Entity at the time of 
contract termination. In no event shall total payment for services under this Agreement exceed $20,000. 
4. Relationship of the Parties.  Entity agrees and understands that the work/services performed by County 
under this Agreement are performed as an Independent Contract, and that Entity nor its employees/agents 
acquires any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of County employees. 
5. Workers’ Compensation Insurance.  Entity shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement 
workers’ compensation and employer liability insurance providing full statutory coverage.  In signing this 
Agreement, Entity certifies, as required by Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, (a) that it is aware of the 
provisions of Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to be insured against 
liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor 
Code, and (b) that it will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work under this 
Agreement.  
6. Other Insurance.  Entity shall take out and maintain during the term of this Agreement such bodily injury 
liability and property damage liability insurance as shall protect Entity and all of its employees/officers/agents 
while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for damages for bodily injury, 
including accidental death, as well as any and all claims for property damage which may arise from Entity’s 
operations under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Entity, any subcontractor, anyone directly or 
indirectly employed by either of them, or by an agent of either of them.  Such insurance shall be combined single 
limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and shall not be less than the amount(s) specified 
below: 
 
☒ Comprehensive General Liability  .... $1,000,000 (applies to all agreements) 
 
The obligations of this section may be met by a public agency by providing the County with a certificate that 
certifies that the public agency is self-insured up to the amounts of insurance required by this section. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3DC9342-A396-4F48-973F-E6FE258CC826
162 of 517

--- page 163 ---
Sheriff’s Office Coyote Point Range Use  
v. January 2023 
 
7. Hold Harmless.  Entity agrees to indemnify and defend County and its employees and agents from any and all 
claims, damages, and liability in any way occasioned by or arising out of the negligence of Entity and/or its 
employees/officers/agents in the performance of this Agreement. 
8. Non-Assignability.  Neither party may assign this Agreement or any portion thereof to a third party. Violation 
of this Section shall automatically give County the option to terminate this Agreement without notice. 
9. Termination of Agreement.  The Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee may, at any time after execution of Agreement, 
terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, for the convenience of the County by giving written notice 
specifying the effective date and scope of such termination.  In the event of termination, County shall be paid for 
all work satisfactorily performed through the date of termination.   
10. Compliance with State, Federal, and Local Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances.  Both parties shall 
ensure compliance with all state, federal, and local laws, regulations, or rules applicable to performance of the 
work required under this Agreement and shall execute all necessary certifications of compliance therewith.   
11. Merger Clause.  This Agreement, including all exhibits/attachments attached hereto, which are incorporated 
herein by this reference, constitutes the sole agreement of the parties hereto and correctly states the rights, 
duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date.  Any prior agreement, promises, negotiations, 
or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this document are not binding.  All subsequent 
modifications shall be in writing and signed by the County Purchasing Agent.  In the event that any term, 
condition, provision, requirement or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or is 
inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement or specification in any exhibit and/or attachment to 
this Agreement, the provisions of the body of this Agreement shall prevail.  This Agreement constitutes the 
entire Agreement between County and Entity.   
12. Governing Law. This Agreement, including any exhibits, and any disputes arising out of this Agreement shall 
for all purposes be deemed subject to the laws of the State of California without regard to its choice of law rules, 
and any lawsuit concerning or arising out of this Agreement shall be venued in the County of San Mateo. 
13. Electronic Signature.  Both County and Entity wish to permit this Agreement and future documents 
relating to this Agreement to be digitally signed in accordance with California law and County’s Electronic 
Signature Administrative Memo. Any party to this Agreement may revoke such agreement to permit 
electronic signatures at any time in relation to all future documents by providing notice pursuant to this 
Agreement. 
 
THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID UNTIL SIGNED BY ALL PARTIES. 
 
 
FOR ENTITY: 
 
 
ENTITY’S SIGNATURE 
 
DATE 
 
NAME (PLEASE PRINT) 
 
 
 
FOR COUNTY: 
 
 
 
STACEY STEVENSON, FINANCE DIRECTOR 
PURCHASING AGENT SIGNATURE 
(DEPARTMENT HEAD OR DESIGNEE) 
 
DATE 
 
PURCHASING AGENT NAME & TITLE 
(DEPARTMENT HEAD OR DESIGNEE) 
 
 
 
 
Budget - 30143 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3DC9342-A396-4F48-973F-E6FE258CC826
Anthony Riccardi
1/25/2024 | 3:44 PM PST
163 of 517

--- page 164 ---
Sheriff’s Office Coyote Point Range Use  
v. January 2023 
 
 
  
Exhibit A 
Agreement for Use of the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office  
Coyote Point Shooting Range 
 
1. SCOPE. 
A. County agrees to provide Entity with the services described herein: 
1.) 
Furnish use of the Sheriff’s Office weapons firing range facilities, also referred to as the 
Coyote Point Rifle and Pistol Range (“Range”). 
2.) 
Use of Range shall be during such times that are mutually agreeable to both parties. 
B. Entity agrees that its members using the Range facilities under this agreement shall be governed by 
the Range Safety Rules established by the Sheriff’s Office. 
 
2. AMOUNT AND METHOD OF PAYMENT. 
In consideration of the services provided by Sheriff’s Office pursuant to Section 1, Scope, and subject to the 
terms of the Agreement, Entity shall pay Sheriff’s Office based on the following schedule and terms: 
A. 
Entity agrees to pay Sheriff’s Office at the following rates: 
Facility 
Rate 
FY 2023-24 
Rate 
FY 2024-25 
Indoor Range (Range 1) - Standard 
-Four (4) hour minimum per day 
-Includes an on-site Sheriff’s Office range staff member to 
oversee the mechanical operation of the indoor range 
 
 
 
 
 
$225/hr 
$250/hr 
Indoor Range (Range 1) – Non-standard 
-Rate applies to private law enforcement events/private 
trainers 
$360/hr 
$360/hr 
Outdoor Range (Range 2) 
- Four (4) hour minimum per day 
 
 
$210/hr 
$215/hr 
Indoor Simmunition Shoot House 
-Three (3) hour minimum per day 
 
 
 
$130/hr 
$135/hr 
Classroom 
-Fixed daily rate 
 
 
$154.50/day 
$154.50/day 
B.    Sheriff’s Office Fiscal Services Bureau will submit to Entity an invoice for payment. Invoices will be 
either emailed or mailed to the following: 
ariccardi@cityofsanmateo.org 
Or 
San Mateo Police Department 
Anthony Riccardi, Lieutenant 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
C. 
Payment must be received by County within 30 days of invoice date. Range use will be suspended if 
payment is not received within 30 days of invoice date. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3DC9342-A396-4F48-973F-E6FE258CC826
164 of 517

--- page 165 ---
Sheriff’s Office Coyote Point Range Use  
v. January 2023 
 
 
D. 
Payments and questions regarding invoicing shall be directed to the Sheriff’s Office Fiscal Services 
Bureau at (650) 599-1728 or mailed to: 
San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office 
Attn: Fiscal Services Bureau  
400 County Center, 3rd Floor 
Redwood City, CA   94063 
E. 
NO SERVICE PROVIDED FOLLOWING EXPIRATION / TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. Entity 
shall have no claim against the County of any kind whatsoever for any services provided by County, 
which were provided after the expiration or termination of this Agreement. 
 
F. 
CANCELLATION POLICY. Agency must give Sheriff’s Office 48-hour notice of cancellation. If no 
notice or less than 48 hours’ notice is given, agency will be responsible to pay for the hours booked 
on said day.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3DC9342-A396-4F48-973F-E6FE258CC826
165 of 517

--- page 166 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: F3DC9342A3964F48973FE6FE258CC826
Status: Delivered
Subject: Complete with DocuSign: SanMateoPD_RangeUse_2024.docx
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 4
Signatures: 1
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Veronica Ruiz
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
400 County Ctr
Redwood City, CA  94063-1662
vruiz@smcgov.org
IP Address: 104.129.192.110
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             1/25/2024 3:01:10 PM
Holder: Veronica Ruiz
             vruiz@smcgov.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Anthony Riccardi
ariccardi@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 1/25/2024 3:02:18 PM
Viewed: 1/25/2024 4:00:07 PM 
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 1/25/2024 4:00:07 PM
      ID: 3d6f387b-df22-4012-84e7-8c28feda3c0f
Stacey Stevenson
sstevenson@smcgov.org
Director of Finance
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Uploaded Signature Image
Using IP Address: 104.129.192.111
Sent: 1/25/2024 3:02:18 PM
Viewed: 1/25/2024 3:44:51 PM 
Signed: 1/25/2024 3:44:56 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 1/25/2024 3:44:51 PM
      ID: 7ed111cf-29be-445f-b9dc-48eed693f624
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
1/25/2024 3:02:19 PM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
1/25/2024 3:44:51 PM
Signing Complete
Security Checked
1/25/2024 3:44:56 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
166 of 517

--- page 167 ---
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure
167 of 517

--- page 168 ---
ELECTRONIC RECORD AND SIGNATURE DISCLOSURE 
From time to time, Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through your
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) Express user account. Please read the information below carefully
and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your satisfaction and
agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking the 'I agree'
button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies 
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. For such copies, as long as you are an authorized user of the
DocuSign system you will have the ability to download and print any documents we send to you
through your DocuSign user account for a limited period of time (usually 30 days) after such
documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to send you paper copies of
any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a $0.00 per-page fee. You may
request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind 
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign 'Withdraw Consent' form on the signing page of your
DocuSign account. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your consent to receive
required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer be able to use your
DocuSign Express user account to receive required notices and consents electronically from us
or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically 
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through your DocuSign user account all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
electronically from us. 
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 8/31/2015 5:58:12 PM
Parties agreed to: Anthony Riccardi, Stacey Stevenson
168 of 517

--- page 169 ---
How to contact Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo: 
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: kevanderson@pacbell.net
 
To advise Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at kevanderson@pacbell.net and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in DocuSign. 
To request paper copies from Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo 
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to kevanderson@pacbell.net and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any. 
To withdraw your consent with Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo 
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign account, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to kevanderson@pacbell.net and in the body of such request you must
state your e-mail, full name, IS Postal Address, telephone number, and account number.
We do not need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences
of your withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a
longer time to process.. 
Required hardware and software 
Operating Systems: 
Windows2000? or WindowsXP? 
Browsers (for SENDERS): 
Internet Explorer 6.0? or above 
Browsers (for SIGNERS): 
Internet Explorer 6.0?, Mozilla FireFox 1.0,
NetScape 7.2 (or above) 
Email: 
Access to a valid email account 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
•Allow per session cookies
 
•Users accessing the internet behind a Proxy
Server must enable HTTP 1.1 settings via
proxy connection 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, we will
provide you with an email message at the email address we have on file for you at that time
providing you with the revised hardware and software requirements, at which time you will
have the right to withdraw your consent. 
169 of 517

--- page 170 ---
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically 
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you
were able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to
e-mail this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or
save it for your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and
disclosures exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above,
please let us know by clicking the 'I agree' button below. 
By checking the 'I Agree' box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC RECORD AND SIGNATURE DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo as described above, I
consent to receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be
provided or made available to me by  Carasoft OBO County of San Mateo during the
course of my relationship with you.
 
170 of 517

--- page 171 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 36-3133
File ID: 23-8158
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Supportive Housing Loan – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a loan to the St. James Community Development Corporation for predevelopment and 
development costs for a new supportive housing project in the amount of $377,212 and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The purpose of the Permanent Local Housing Allocation program (PLHA) is to provide a permanent source of funding to all 
local governments in California to help cities and counties implement plans to increase housing affordability. This is a 
flexible funding source that can be used for a wide range of activities from increasing the housing supply to providing 
supportive services. The PLHA application requires the City to develop a five-year plan to allocate spending. The City’s 
third-year allocation amount is $584,800. After the City awarded funding assistance to the other PLHA third-year 
subrecipients, the remaining funding available to be used for this request is $377,212. The California Department of 
Housing and Community Development (HCD) defines the third-year PLHA grant as the 2021 allocation, but has consistently 
released PLHA funds on a deferred schedule, so the City is utilizing the 2021 allocation as part of its 2023 – 2024 fiscal year 
activities.
The St. James African Methodist Episcopal Zion church is a historically African American church located on Monte Diablo 
Avenue in the City’s North Central Neighborhood. They are current participants in the City’s Community Funding program 
of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), where they provide school supplies, meals, and uniforms to low-
income students and youth in the City. In winter of 2022, City staff were approached by representatives from St. James 
regarding the potential for developing a new supportive housing project aimed at housing the City’s transition-aged former 
foster youth. Transition-aged former foster youth are defined by HCD as individuals between the ages of 18 to 24 who 
have recently left the foster care system and may not possess all the necessary resources for stable housing while entering 
life as an adult. The church owns an adjacent parcel at 831 Monte Diablo Avenue that is currently a single-family home. 
Known as “New Beginnings Supportive Housing,” the project proposes to redevelop this parcel into an affordable housing 
village with four to six units of supportive housing for transition-aged former foster youth.
Senate Bill (SB) 4 (2023) allows for approval of a housing development project on a site that is owned by a religious 
institution and is zoned for residential uses, including single-family residential zones, at a density of at least 30 units per 
acre so long as 100% of the units shall be made affordable to lower-income households. New Beginnings Supportive 
Housing will satisfy this requirement by making all of its units restricted to extremely low-income households (30% Area 
Median Income or AMI) for 55 years. This forgivable loan award does not constitute a planning entitlement or building 
permit approval; it only provides funding to allow the project to move forward with design, predevelopment activities, and 
construction once permits are approved.
171 of 517

--- page 172 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This PLHA funding will be distributed to St. James Community Development Corporation (Applicant) in the form of a 0% 
interest loan, with a deferred payment schedule that will not collect repayment throughout predevelopment and 
development of the project, and would be forgiven upon completion of project construction. The resolution to approve 
this loan to the Applicant for this supportive housing project is included as Attachment 1. 
This loan of PLHA funds will be used to cover design and predevelopment costs, such as preparation of construction plans, 
surveys, professional service fees, and various reports to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. The 
agreement that specifies the terms of this loan of PLHA funds is included as Attachment 2.  Additional information about 
the proposed project, including a breakdown of pre-construction and construction costs, is provided in Attachments 3 and 
4.  The Applicant has estimated that the project in total will cost approximately $1,500,000 to complete at five units. Since 
this project could include six units, a large construction contingency has been included. Their funding plan notes that they 
have currently secured $315,000 from various funding sources, and after obtaining $377,212 in PLHA funds, will secure an 
additional $1,300,000 from the FY 24-25 Measure K grant to cover the remaining funding gap and provide a contingency 
reserve of $563,571 that may be used for construction of a sixth unit. The cost breakdown for the project, as provided by 
the Applicant, is as follows:
Expenses
Funding Sources
Pre-development Expenses
$346,500 
Local Initiative Support 
Corporation (LISC) Initial Grant 
$15,000 
Developer's Fee
$117,961 Measure K District 2 Funding
$60,000 
Site Construction
$541,020 
LISC/Silicon Valley Community 
Foundation Recoverable Grant
$200,000 
Unit Construction (5 units)
$423,160 Private donations (as of Jan 2024)
$40,000 
Total Estimated Development
$1,428,641 PLHA
$377,212 
Construction Contingency
$563,571 Measure K 24/25
$1,300,000 
TOTAL EXPENSES
$1,992,212 TOTAL REVENUE
$1,992,212 
NEXT STEPS:
Approval of the resolution (Attachment 1) and execution of the loan agreement (Attachment 2) will award a forgivable 
loan of $377,212 in the current year of PLHA funding for predevelopment and development of permanent supportive 
housing. If an additional funding gap is identified throughout the course of the project, the City may supplement the 
agreement with additional funding from future allocations of the PLHA grant with an amendment. If a funding surplus is 
ascertained, the remaining funds may be used for construction, but only after the Applicant has submitted a complete 
construction cost breakdown to City staff with line-item breakdown, at which time the agreement could be amended if 
consistent with PLHA requirements and approved by the City. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City has established a fund (referred to as Fund 280) that manages the annual PLHA grant funding. PLHA is a 
noncompetitive grant from the State which is allocated to the City over a five-year period. The grant amount for the third 
year (2021) is $584,800.  HCD defines the PLHA five-year allocation cycle as the years of 2019 - 2023, but has consistently 
released PLHA funds on a deferred schedule. The first year the City was able to utilize the PLHA grant was in 2021, and 
since then the allocation year has preceded project activities by two years. PLHA Year 3 funds have not yet been received 
by the City, as they need to be requested through a release of funds. The exact dollar amount for the final two years will 
vary based upon the collection of the real estate recording fees, but the total estimated dollar amount the city will receive 
over five years is $2,051,364. The finalized budget for the third year of the PLHA grant is as follows, with the subject loan 
request highlighted with italics:
PLHA Year 3 (2021) Budget
Amount
Bridge Housing (Montara)
$61,541
172 of 517

--- page 173 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
LifeMoves (RRH)
$76,807
HIP Housing
$25,000
Samaritan House (SH)
$15,000
New Beginnings Supportive Housing
$377,212
Administration (City staff)
$29,240
Total
$584,800
A five-year plan amendment will not be needed to utilize this budget, nor will it be necessary for awarding this contract. 
The five-year PLHA plan was previously revised in an approved resolution adopted by the City Council on February 6, 2023 
that allows the City to use up to 80% of Year 3 allocation funding for 6 eligible projects, which include predevelopment and 
development of permanent supportive housing. Staff consulted with HCD staff and confirmed that this project is eligible 
for funding and is consistent with the City’s most recently adopted five-year PLHA plan. Overall, the aforementioned 
actions of the resolution are already accounted for in the annual PLHA budget and will not have any significant impacts. 
Forgiveness of the loan is contingent on completion of the project’s construction. The Applicant will be responsible for 
repayment of the loan in full if the project is unable to be completed.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Awarding this loan and executing the associated agreement will not constitute a planning entitlement or a building permit 
approval for the construction of the project. This agreement is only to award the applicant the necessary funds to ensure 
the project’s fiscal feasibility. This agreement award is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5)). Environmental review for the demolition and reconstruction of the site will occur at a later time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Proposed Loan Agreement
Att 3 – Funding Request Letter from Applicant, 12/19/23
Att 4 – Supplemental Funding Request Letter from Applicant, 1/29/24
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist II
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
173 of 517

--- page 174 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVE A FORGIVABLE LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF $377,212 TO ST. JAMES COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
CORPORATION FOR THE PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW SUPPORTIVE HOUSING PROJECT LOCATED 
AT 831 MONTE DIABLO AVENUE
WHEREAS, the California Department of Housing and Community Development has made available 
$584,800 in the Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Fund in Year 3 to be used to increase housing 
affordability; and
WHEREAS, the five-year PLHA plan was revised in a resolution adopted by the City Council on February 
6, 2023 that allows the City to use up to 80% of Year 3 allocation funding for Activity 6 eligible projects, which 
include predevelopment and development of permanent supportive housing; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to award a portion of these funds to be used to increase the supply of 
affordable housing made available to special needs populations, which includes foster youth and former foster 
youth; and
WHEREAS, St. James Community Development Corporation is a San Mateo based non-profit 
organization that is proposing to redevelop a single-family parcel at 831 Monte Diablo Avenue for a total of four 
to six units for a supportive housing project for transition-aged former foster youth, known as New Beginnings 
Housing; and
WHEREAS, the units at the New Beginnings Supportive Housing Project will be restricted to extremely 
low-income tenants (30 percent of Area Median Income) for a period of 55 years.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
In accordance California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), an 
agreement award is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5)).
2.
A loan in the amount of $377,212 at an interest rate of 0%, with a deferred payment schedule which will 
not collect repayment throughout predevelopment and development of the project, and will be forgiven 
at the completion of construction of the project at 831 Monte Diablo Avenue to St. James Community 
Development Corporation is approved.
3.
The City Manager is authorized to execute the loan  agreement with St. James Community Development 
Corporation in substantially the form presented.
174 of 517

--- page 175 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
AGREEMENT TO PROVIDE FUNDS
TO SUPPORT THE PRODUCTION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on this ____day of ____ 2024, by and between the CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City"), and ST. JAMES COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter referred to as “Organization”).
The City wishes to provide support the production of affordable housing to provide a benefit to low-income 
San Mateo City residents.
To achieve common goals in the community, the City and the Organization agree as follows:
1.
ORGANIZATION: The Organization is an independent contractor, organized in accordance with the laws of 
California, willing to and capable of performing such community services.
2.
SERVICES:  Organization shall provide the services and/or the improvements described in Exhibit "A", the 
Project Scope.
3.
FUNDING:  The source of City funds is the state Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA).  Funding shall 
be used for lawful purposes only.  The City reserves the right to cancel, lower or rescind the amount of 
funding provided in this agreement if state funds are less than expected or other Congressional rescissions 
or restrictions to the program occur. There shall be no liability to Organization as a result of the lowering, 
or canceling of the funding under this agreement.
Funding by City to Organization shall be on progress payment basis as often as monthly, but to ensure 
timely expenditures, not less than quarterly and shall in no event exceed $377,212. In the manner 
prescribed by the City, Organization shall provide an invoice for each request for payment that shall specify 
how the funds requested for reimbursement have been spent.  Organization shall maintain receipts related 
to each reimbursable expense for five (5) years.
Funding shall be provided as a loan from the City to the Organization at an interest rate of 0% and will be 
forgiven at the completion of construction of the project. Repayments to the City will not be required from 
the Organization throughout the pre-development or development process. 
4.
TERM:  The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution and be 
completed on June 30, 2024. The term of this Agreement shall be automatically extended to cover any 
additional time period during which the Organization remains in control of PLHA funds or other PLHA 
assets, including program income. 
5.
FISCAL AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES OF ORGANIZATION:  Organization shall:
A.
Comply with State Regulations, particularly the provisions of “Permanent Local Housing Allocation 
Final Guidelines” dated October 2019.
B.
Establish and maintain a written system of accounts for budgeted funds that shall be in conformance 
with generally accepted principles of accounting.  Such system of accounts shall be subject to review, 
approval and inspection by City.
175 of 517

--- page 176 ---
C.
Document all costs by maintaining complete and accurate records of all financial transactions, 
including, but not limited to, contracts, invoices, time cards, cash and charge receipts, vouchers, 
cancelled checks, bank statements and/or other official documentation evidencing in proper detail 
the nature and propriety of all transactions.
D.
Independent Audits:  Organizations must perform an independent fiscal audit once a year, in 
conformance with the generally accepted standard accounting principles.  Such audits must identify 
the total funds received and disbursed as well as funds granted and expended.  The costs for such 
audits shall be at Organization's expense, unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.  The 
Organization Board of Directors must provide copies of the completed audits to the City within thirty 
(30) days of their completion and acceptance by the Organization Board of Directors.
E.
Disallowed Costs:  Disallowed costs are costs not allowed and approved by the City.  Organization is 
liable for repayment of disallowed costs.  Disallowed costs may be identified through Quarterly 
Reports, audits, examination of invoices, monitoring or other sources.  Organization shall be afforded 
the opportunity to respond to any adverse findings which may lead to disallowed costs.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, any and all costs identified in Exhibit B shall 
constitute allowed costs and shall not be subject to the terms of this Section 5.E.
F.
For public works projects, comply with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.61 and State prevailing 
wage laws, including contractor registration with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
G.
Comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which 
differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
6.
RECORDS, REPORTS AND AUDITS OF ORGANIZATION:
A.
Establishment and Maintenance of Records: Organization shall maintain records, including but not 
limited to books, financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, personnel, property, 
and all other pertinent records sufficient to reflect properly (1) all direct and indirect costs of 
whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be incurred to perform this 
Agreement, and (2) all other matters covered by this Agreement.
B.
Preservation of Records: Organization shall reserve and make available its records:
1)
Until the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the submission of the annual financial 
status report.
2)
For such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable law; or
3)
If this Agreement is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work 
terminated shall be preserved and made available for a period of five (5) years from the date of 
any resulting final settlement.
C.
Program Report: Organization shall provide Program Reports to the City of San Mateo detailing 
progress made toward the provision of services as described in Exhibit "A".  Reports are due by the 
15th of the month following the end of each quarter.  Organization shall include an Annual Report, in 
addition to the final quarterly report, which summarizes the achievement of stated outcomes for the 
program year.
7.
SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION:  In accordance with 24 CFR 85.43, suspension or termination may occur 
if the subrecipient materially fails to comply with any term of the award, and the award may be terminated 
176 of 517

--- page 177 ---
for convenience in accordance with 24 CFR 85.44.
8.
INTEREST OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS:  No members, officers, employees or agents of the City, shall have any 
interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or a related subcontract.
9.
INSPECTION OF PROGRAM:  It is understood that periodic review of the Organization's program will be 
necessary under procedures set forth in the City's PLHA Subrecipient Performance Monitoring Procedures.
10.
PROGRAM INCOME:  Organization shall record program income as part of the financial transactions of the 
program.  Organization agrees that program income shall only be used in performing services and activities 
specified in Exhibit "A".  Program income not used for these purposes shall be accounted for and returned 
to the City.
11.
REVERSION OF ASSETS:  If the Organization is dissolved or ceases to exist, any PLHA funds on hand at the 
time of its dissolution shall be accounted for per Section 4.B and immediately returned to the City.  Any 
real property owned by the Organization which was purchased or improved with City funds in the amount 
of $25,000 or more under the terms of this Agreement shall either:
A.
Be used to meet one of the PLHA state objectives for at least five (5) years after the expiration of this 
Agreement; or 
B.
Be disposed of at a fair market value and a proration of these funds shall be returned to the City.  The 
proration will be based on the percentage of PLHA funds used to acquire or improve the property as 
part of this contract.
12.
ASSIGNABILITY:  Organization shall not assign this Agreement and shall not transfer any interest in this 
Agreement without the prior written consent of the City.
13.     MEDIATION:  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement; any party may request that it be submitted 
to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed 
to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation 
Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing 
party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a 
good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting 
with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless 
the maximum time is extended by the parties.
14. 
INDEMNIFICATION:  Organization agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, 
and expense arising out of Organization’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of City’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. Organization agrees to defend City of San Mateo, their 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Organization’s duty to 
indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
15.
LITIGATION: Organization shall testify at City's request if litigation is brought against City in connection 
with Organization’s services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by Organization, or is 
based upon Organization's wrongdoing, City shall compensate Organization for preparation for testimony, 
testimony, and travel at Organization’s standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
177 of 517

--- page 178 ---
16.
COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES: Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as 
costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the 
intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
17. 
INSURANCE:  Organization shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance as 
specified below:
A.     Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1)
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, 
either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2)
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Organization 
has no owned autoes, hired (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3)
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the Organization maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
B. 
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1)
Additional Insured Status:  The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles 
owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Organization; and on the CGL policy 
with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
Organization including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Organization’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and 
CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2)
Primary Coverage:  For any claims related to this contract, the Organization’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the Organization’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
3)
Notice of Cancellation:  Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) 
has been given to the City.
178 of 517

--- page 179 ---
4)
Waiver of Subrogation:  Organization hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said Organization may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of 
any loss under such insurance.  Organization agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be 
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether 
or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
5)
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions:  Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be 
declared to and approved by the City. The City may require the Organization to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and 
related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.  
6)
Acceptability of Insurers:  Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s 
rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
7)
Verification of Coverage:  Organization shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by 
the City before work commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Organization’s obligation to provide them.  The City 
reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, 
including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
18. 
NONDISCRIMINATION:
A.
General:  No person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religious affiliation or 
non-affiliation, marital status, medical condition, sex, age, disability status, sexual orientation or 
political affiliation, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits, or be subjected to 
discrimination or harassment under this Agreement.
B.
Employment:  Organization shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards 
of recruitment, selection, promotion, classification, compensation, performance evaluations, and 
management relations, for all employees under this Agreement.  Organization's personnel policies shall 
be made available to City upon request.
19.
 GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California.  In the 
event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
20.
PROJECT REPRESENTATION:  The City and Organization hereby designate the following agents to act as 
project representatives and receive all notices in the execution of this Agreement.
To CITY:
Nicky Vu
Housing Specialist
Community Development Department
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To ORGNIZATION:
Rev. Dr. Marlyn Bussey
179 of 517

--- page 180 ---
Pastor and CEO
St. James Community Development 
Corporation
825 MONTE DIABLO AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
This agreement has been duly executed by the following parties:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORGANIZATION
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Rev. Dr. Marlyn Bussey
Pastor and CEO
St. James Community Development 
Corporation
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
180 of 517

--- page 181 ---
EXHIBIT A – PROJECT SCOPE
1.
PROJECT SUMMARY: St. James Community Development Corporation owns the single-family parcels at 
831 Monte Diablo Avenue in the City of San Mateo, which they plan to redevelop to create the New 
Beginnings Supportive Housing project. Funds for this project may be used for pre-development and 
development of the properties to construct a new housing development for extremely low-income (30% 
AMI or less) transition-aged former foster youth in the City of San Mateo with 4 to 6 units. 
2.
PRIMARY GOALS AND OUTCOMES:  
Demolish the existing single-family property at 831 Monte Diablo Avenue, San Mateo, CA and construct a 
new supportive housing village project consisting of four (4) to six (6) units to house extremely low-income 
(30%AMI or less) transition-aged (ages 18 – 24) former foster youth. The unit mix count is tentative, and an 
exact unit mix will be finalized prior to construction of the project, however all units must be restricted to 
extremely low-income households for 55 years.
3.
TIMELINE: Pre-development is expected to commence in 2024 with the execution of the agreement and 
will continue throughout the program year. Construction will follow only after the necessary planning and 
building approvals are received by the applicant and the City receives an amended budget for development 
line item costs.
4. 
INCOME VERIFICATION: The applicant, St James Community Development Corporation will maintain 
records that the tenants of the New Beginnings Supportive Housing Development will meet the established 
HCD criteria of being transition-aged former foster youth that meet the definition of being extremely low-
income, or 30 percent AMI (Area Median Income) at the time of entry based on accepted income 
documentation including paystubs, bank statements, tax returns, and federal/state assistance letters 
(social security, etc) and will re-certify each year at the beginning of their tenancy.
181 of 517

--- page 182 ---
EXHIBIT B - FY 2023-2024 AGREEMENT BUDGET
Agency: St James Community Development Corporation
Program: New Beginnings Supportive Housing
Budget Line Item
San Mateo
Other Funding
Program Total
Pre-Development
Architecture and Engineering
 $50,000
 $0
 $50,000
Reports and Studies
 $125,000
 $0
 $125,000
Financing Costs
 $10,000
 $0
 $10,000
Operating Reserve
$35,000
 $0
$35,000
Builder’s Risk Insurance
$15,000
 $0
$15,000
OCIP Insurance
$15,000
 $0
$15,000
Impact Fees and Taxes
$30,000
 $0
$30,000
Permit Fees
$30,000
 $0
$30,00
Special Inspections
$5,000
 $0
$5,000
Contingency
$31,500
SITE PREPARATION SUBTOTAL
$346,500
$0
$346,500
Developer Fee
$30,712
$87,249
$117,961
TOTAL
$377,212
TBD
$464,461
182 of 517

--- page 183 ---
December 19, 2023
Dear Nicky,
In January 2023, we applied to the City of San Mateo for the PLHA Housing Assistance with 
Case Management Program to help fund The New Beginnings Project in North Central. This 
permanent supportive housing will provide a safe and secure place for young adults transitioning 
(TAY) out of the Foster Care system. Please allow this letter to serve as an update to our August 
7th addendum. 
Since our August addendum, several updates have encouraged us to pursue a different unit type. 
Given the recommendations of our arborist regarding tree preservation, we began to explore unit 
options that might provide more capability for tree protection and preservation. 
In addition, with the passage of Senate Bill 4, St. James AME Zion Church and St. James 
Community Development Corporation now has the opportunity to provide affordable multi-
family residential housing on the property at 831 Monte Diablo Street. The bill requires that 
100% of the units must be affordable at specific income levels and property owner must agree to 
maintain the affordability of the units for at least 55 years.  
As a result of these findings and legislation, we began working with Firm Foundation 
Community Housing, our developer, to propose a multi-family residential "Village" comprised 
of five 264 square foot affordable housing rental units. Firm Foundation's micro-home unit meets 
HCD quality standards, and is on a fixed foundation with utilities as well as a private bathroom, 
kitchen, appliances, and living space. 
The unit has been reviewed by a CASp consultant and complies with section 11B of the 2019 
California Building Code. These CA state-certified homes can be fully installed within six to 
eight weeks, making them a much quicker and more cost-effective alternative to other types of 
housing development. The units will be assembled in a temporary, HCD-approved factory and 
placed on site with certification placards.  
183 of 517

--- page 184 ---
We are excited about our modified proposal for a 5-unit Village on the site, as we believe it will 
better align with the needs of the TAY population we are serving. Each individual will have their 
own private space, but the design of the Village will include group open space areas for the 
residents to enjoy. 
We are currently in concept design review with our architect, FOG Studios. However, they have 
been able to provide us with a fit test design utilizing minimum requirements, such as 11B site 
requirements. While the attached fit test site plan is still a work-in-progress, we believe that it 
demonstrates that the project is feasible.  A density bonus compliance memo will also 
accompany our planning application and describe any concessions and/or incentives that the 
project would like to request.
Here is our updated project development budget for our PLHA grant, highlighted in bold.  
1. Monte Diablo Site Construction: Demo, Grading, Wet and Dry Utilities, Foundations, 
decks/ramps
2. FFCH Unit Construction: 264 sq.ft. unit
3. Pre-development expenses: Architecture, Engineering, Reports/Studies, Permit fees, 
Impact fees, etc.
4. Firm Foundation Developer's fee: a percentage of the above total cost of the project
Development Expense Category
Budget Estimate
Notes
Site Construction:
$541,020
Unit Construction:
$423,160
Pre-development Expense:
$346,500
Developer's fee:
$117,961 ~9% of above sub-total
TOTAL EST. DEV BUDGET
$1,428,641 5-unit Village
Pre-development expenses encompass all soft costs related to the development of the project, and 
exclude only Construction costs. A more detailed table of Pre-development expenses is below.
Pre-development Expenses 
for Monte Diablo Project
Budget Estimate
Notes
Architecture and Engineering
$50,000
Reports and Studies
$125,000 $35K Standard reports; $90K PGE utility study/design
Financing Costs
$10,000
Operating Reserve
$35,000
Builders Risk Insurance
$15,000
OCIP Insurance
$15,000
Impact Fees and Taxes
$30,000 Will request Density Bonus concession, as possible
Permit Fees
$30,000 Will request Density Bonus concession, as possible
Special Inspections
$5,000 Will request Density Bonus concession, as possible
Sub-total of Pre-development Expenses
$315,000
Soft Cost Contingency
$31,500
Sub-total of Pre-development Expenses + Soft 
Cost Contingency
$346,500
Developer's Fee
$117,961
TOTAL PRE-DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES
$464,461
184 of 517

--- page 185 ---
As indicated by the table, our original request of $377,212.00, in development funding will 
adequately cover our sub-total of pre-development and contingency expenses. Being awarded 
this grant will enable us to move forward with the project.
Thank you for your kind attention to this and your ongoing support of this important project. 
Please do not hesitate to reach out with any questions you might have.
Sincerely,
Rev. Penny Nixon 415-269-2259
New Beginnings Project Manager
St James Community Development Corporation Saintjamescdc.org
185 of 517

--- page 186 ---
186 of 517

--- page 187 ---
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
MONTE DIABLO AVENUE
831 MONTE DIABLO
APN: 033-065-130
5,650 SF
0.129 AC
825 MONTE DIABLO
(ST. JAMES AME ZION CHURCH)
MIN. SETBACK
15' - 0"
SETBACK
5' - 0" MIN
SETBACK
5' - 0" MIN
MIN. SETBACK
15' - 0"
855 MONTE DIABLO
50.00'
113.12'
113.12'
50.00'
EXISTING RESIDENCE 
TO BE DEMOLISHED
EXISTING DRIVEWAY
EXISTING GARAGE 
TO BE DEMOLISHED
15' - 0"
28' - 4"
10' - 0"
9' - 4"
17' - 11/2"
28' - 4"
5' - 0"
21' - 9"
19' - 3"
9' - 0"
21' - 9"
19' - 3"
9' - 0"
FRONT YARD
MONTE DIABLO AVENUE
1 (E) PARKING
SLOPE DN 1:12
SHARED DECK
OPEN SPACE
SLOPE DN 1:12
SHARED 
DECK
OPEN SPACE
SCALE
PROJECT NO.
DATE
P.O. Box 2351
Benicia, CA 94510
www.fogprojects.com
TIFFANY REDDING
510.798.1834
STAMP
CONSULTANT LOGO
CLIENT:
1/8" = 1'-0"
12/13/20234:09:40PM
22.079
12/13/2023
SITE PLAN DIAGRAMS
A1.01
MONTE DIABLO
HOUSING
FIRM FOUNDATION
COMMUNITY HOUSING
831 MONTE DIABLO AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
1 EXISTING SITE PLAN
0
20
10
No.
Description
Date
TRUE
NORTH
5 STUDIO UNITS
264 GSF EACH (DIMENSIONS ARE TO FACE OF STUD)
TOTAL BUILDING AREA = 1,320 SF
PARKING: 1 EXISTING (WIDENED)
METRICS
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
2 PROPOSED SITE PLAN
187 of 517

--- page 188 ---
January 29, 2024
Dear Nicky,
Please allow this letter to serve as additional relevant project information to our December 19, 2023 addendum. 
In addition to the development budget information provided in the previous addendum, below are confirmed and pending 
Project Funding Sources, as of Jan 2024.
New Beginnings Project Funding Sources
Confirmed
Pending / Under Review
LISC Initial Grant 
$15,000
Measure K District 2 Funding
$60,000
LISC/SVCF Recoverable Grant
$200,000
Private donations (as of Jan 2024)
$40,000
PLHA Program
$377,212
NOFA 24/25 Measure K
$1,300,000
Sub-totals
$315,000
$1,677,212
New Beginnings Development Budget - Dec 2023 Draft
$1,428,641
Funding Gap as of Jan 2024
$1,113,641
As you can see, the PLHA Housing Assistance with Case Management Program award would significantly progress our 
efforts to realize The New Beginnings Project in North Central. 
Thank you for your kind attention to this and your ongoing support of this important project. Please do not hesitate to 
reach out with any questions you might have.
Sincerely,
Rev. Penny Nixon 415-269-2259
New Beginnings Project Manager
St James Community Development Corporation Saintjamescdc.org
188 of 517

--- page 189 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5131
File ID: 24-8388
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force for the 
assignment of one police officer through June 30, 2025, and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the no-cost 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force (VTTF) is a unit composed of officers from local law enforcement agencies, 
the California Highway Patrol and the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office. The VTTF operates under the authority of the San 
Mateo County Police Chiefs and Sheriffs Association through a Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) to which the County and all 
incorporated cities are parties. 
Vehicle theft is a considerable problem in San Mateo and throughout the County. The City of San Mateo currently has one 
police officer assigned to the VTTF, whose assignment is scheduled to conclude February 28, 2024.  During the time our 
officer has been assigned to the VTTF, considerable efforts have been made to abate auto theft in San Mateo. The 
partnership with the VTTF has enabled our department to obtain firsthand knowledge of activity of auto thieves operating 
in San Mateo, and provides a valuable opportunity for officers to expand their expertise in investigations and act as liaison 
between the police department and this vital countywide unit. 
The City and the VTTF wish to continue the assignment through June 30, 2025, so that both parties may better assist one 
another in the detection, apprehension, and prosecution of vehicle theft related criminal activity, and improve 
engagement in a coordinated and concentrated effort to combat vehicle theft in San Mateo County and in the City of San 
Mateo.  It is the City’s policy that inter-governmental agency agreements be approved by the City Council. The proposed 
Agreement (Attachment 1) formalizes the assignment, defines the relationship between parties, and outlines cost sharing 
and reimbursement parameters.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The assignment of one officer to the VTTF for this purpose has been planned for and is reflected in current operating 
budget.  The VTTF will reimburse the City for 75% of the cost of the salary and benefits for the officer assigned, and 100% 
of any overtime worked for the benefit of VTTF.  If approved this will be included in the proposed 2024-2025 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
189 of 517

--- page 190 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7600
Tricia Toomey, Business Manager
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7623
190 of 517

--- page 191 ---
- 1- 
 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE SAN MATEO COUNTY VEHICLE THEFT TASK 
FORCE AND THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this day ___________ 2024, by and 
between the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO VEHICLE THEFT TASK FORCE, 
hereinafter called “VTTF,” and CITY OF SAN MATEO, hereinafter called 
“Contractor”, and collectively hereinafter called “Parties”;  
 
W I T N E S S E T H: 
 
WHEREAS, The VTTF is a unit composed of officers from the California 
Highway Patrol and the Sheriff’s Office located in San Mateo County.  The VTTF 
operates under the authority of the San Mateo County Police Chiefs and Sheriff 
Association through a Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) to which the County and all the 
incorporated cities are parties; 
 
WHEREAS, The Police Chief of San Mateo is a member of the San Mateo 
County Police Chiefs and Sheriff Association; 
 
WHEREAS, The Parties understand that this agreement is distinct from and 
independent of the terms of the JPA establishing the VTTF and its amendments and 
that, by this agreement, the JPA is in no way modified or amended; 
 
WHEREAS, The Board of Directors appoints a Commander for the San Mateo 
County Narcotics Task Force and Vehicle Theft Task Force.  The Commander holds 
the rank of Lieutenant or higher in a participating agency in order to be eligible for 
appointment.   
 
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor be retained for the 
purpose of combating vehicle theft related crime in San Mateo County. 
 
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor assign a peace 
officer (the “Officer”) to the VTTF so that Contractor and the VTTF can better assist 
one another in the detection, apprehension, and prosecution of vehicle theft related 
criminal activity, and improve engagement in a coordinated and concentrated effort 
to combat vehicle theft in San Mateo County and the City of San Mateo; 
 
WHEREAS, the Parties believe it fair to reimburse Contractor for a part of the 
cost of the Officer assigned to the VTTF in a manner reflects the contribution of the 
Officer to the VTTF’s County-wide efforts while the Officer remains an employee 
solely of Contractor. 
 
 
191 of 517

--- page 192 ---
- 2- 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY THE PARTIES HERETO 
AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
1. 
Exhibits and Attachments 
The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and 
incorporated into this Agreement by this reference: 
 
Attachment I—§ 504 Compliance 
 
 
2. 
Services to be performed by Contractor 
In consideration of the payments set forth below, Contractor shall assign a San 
Mateo Police Officer to the VTTF. 
3. 
Payments 
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor in accordance with all terms, 
conditions, and specifications set forth herein and in Exhibit A, VTTF shall reimburse 
Contractor in an amount constituting 75% of the cost of salary and benefits paid to 
the Officer by Contractor and100% of overtime paid as a result of overtime worked 
for the benefit of the VTTF but excluding any worker’s compensation payments, 
benefits, reimbursement or costs.  The reimbursement will be made quarterly based 
on invoices generated by Contractor. 
 
4. 
Term and Termination 
Subject to compliance with all terms and conditions, the term of this Agreement shall 
be from March 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. 
 
This Agreement may be terminated by Contractor, the VTFF Commander, or his/her 
designee at any time without a requirement of good cause upon fifteen (15) days’ 
written notice to the other party.  
 
In the event of termination, all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, maps, 
photographs, reports, and materials (hereafter referred to as materials) prepared by 
Contractor under this Agreement shall become the property of VTTF and shall be 
promptly delivered to VTTF.  Upon termination, Contractor may make and retain a 
copy of such materials.  Subject to availability of funding, Contractor shall be entitled 
to receive payment for work/services provided prior to termination of the Agreement.  
Such payment shall be that portion of the full payment which is determined by 
comparing the work/services completed to the work/services required by the 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
Availability of Funds 
VTTF may terminate this Agreement or a portion of the services referenced in the 
Attachments and Exhibits based upon unavailability of Federal, State, or VTTF funds 
by providing written notice to Contractor as soon as is reasonably possible after 
VTTF learns of said unavailability of outside funding. 
 
 
6. 
Relationship of Parties 
192 of 517

--- page 193 ---
- 3- 
 
6.1    Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under 
this Agreement are performed as an independent Contractor and not as an 
employee of VTTF and that neither Contractor nor its employees acquire any of the 
rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of VTTF employees. 
6.2    Officer assigned to VTTF shall take direction from the VTTF Commander and 
comply with the rules and regulations set forth in the Operations Manual adopted by 
the Board of Directors of the VTTF unless those rules and regulations conflict with 
the rules and regulations of the San Mateo Police Department, in which case the 
rules and regulations of the San Mateo Police Department shall take precedence.  
Further, ultimate responsibility for supervision and training of any Police Officer 
assigned to the Vehicle Theft Task Force remains with Contractor.  However, when 
any conflict is found to exist between VTTF policy and training and Contractor policy 
and training, the matter will be brought to the attention of the Commander by 
Contractor who will so advise the Board of Directors for action as they may 
determine. 
6.3    The San Mateo Police Chief shall be immediately notified of all personnel 
complaints against any officer assigned to the task force.  Personnel complaints will 
be investigated by the San Mateo Police Department pursuant to San Mateo Police 
Department policy. 
6.4     If discovery or disclosure of peace officer personnel records, or records 
maintained pursuant to Penal Code Section 832.5 or information from such records 
is sought concerning the any officer assigned to the VTTF, the San Mateo Police 
Department shall be responsible for responding to the discovery or disclosure 
request.  The VTTF shall provide to the San Mateo Police Department any of its 
records necessary to respond to the discovery or disclosure request to the extent 
permitted by law.  
6.5    The VTTF will furnish equipment to the Officer assigned to the VTTF that 
includes, but is not limited to, safety equipment, surveillance equipment, vehicles, 
and other items to the extent issued to other members assigned to the VTTF. 
6.6    All money received through state asset forfeiture or federal equitable sharing 
will remain with the VTTF to supplement task force operating costs and upgrades. 
6.7     The release of information regarding VTTF operations will normally be 
coordinated through the VTTF Commander.  Additionally, in the event of an officer 
involved shooting or highly publicized VTTF activity, participating agencies will 
attempt if feasible to meet and confer in advance regarding what agency will release 
what type of information. 
6.8     Any officer involved shootings or accidental discharges involving the Contract 
Officers assigned to the VTTF shall be investigated by Contractor in conjunction with 
SMCPCSA OIS Protocol. 
6.9     Any on-duty vehicle collision involving the Officer assigned to the VTTF shall 
be investigated and reported by Contractor in collaboration with VTTF Commander. 
 
7. 
Hold Harmless 
7.1. 
Contractor shall defend, hold harmless and indemnify VTTF and the County of 
San Mateo, their officers, agents, and/or employees from any and all claims for 
injuries to persons and/or damage to property, which both arise out of this 
Agreement and are caused by or are alleged to be caused by the acts or omissions 
193 of 517

--- page 194 ---
- 4- 
 
of Contractor, its officers, agents and/or employees including, but not limited to 
claims alleging negligence, excessive force, or violations of state or federal civil 
rights laws, except to the extent such claims arise out acts performed by the VTTF, 
its officers, agents and/or employees.   
7.2. 
VTTF shall defend, hold harmless and indemnify Contractor, its officers, 
agents and/or employees from any and all claims for injuries to persons and/or 
damage to property, which both arise out of this Agreement and are caused by or 
are alleged to be caused by the acts or omissions of VTTF, its officers, agents and/or 
employees including, but not limited to claims alleging negligence, excessive force, 
or violations of state or federal civil rights laws, except to the extent such claims arise 
out acts performed by the Contractor, its officers, agents and/or employees. 
7.3. 
In the event of the concurrent negligence of Contractor, its officers, agents 
and/or employees, and VTTF, its officers, agents and/or employees, then the liability 
for any and all claims for injuries or damages which arise out of this Agreement shall 
be apportioned under California’s theory of comparative fault as presently 
established or may be hereafter modified. 
7.4     Contractor will be responsible for the defense of any of its employees 
assigned to the VTTF in any lawsuit filed against that employee, regardless of the 
allegations. 
7.5     The parties understand and agree that because the Officer assigned will be 
deemed to be continuing under the employment of the Contractor, any damage, 
injury, disability, or death incurred by the Officer while working with the VTTF shall 
be deemed to have arisen out of and to have been sustained in the course of the 
Officer’s employment with Contractor.  The Officer assigned to the VTTF who 
sustains any damage or injury arising out of and in the course of his work with the 
VTTF shall be accorded by Contractor all of the same benefits, including Workers 
Compensation Benefits, which he would have received if he had been acting under 
the immediate direction of Contractor.  If the Officer, or anyone on his behalf, files a 
claim for Workers’ Compensation or claims and violation of any labor or employment 
laws against the VTTF, for any damage or injury claimed to have been sustained 
while working with the VTTF, Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless 
the VTTF. 
 
 
8. 
Assignability, Subcontracting and Assignment of Officer 
8.1     Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion thereof to a third 
party or subcontract with a third party to provide services required by Contractor 
under this Agreement without the prior written consent of VTTF.  Any such 
assignment or subcontract without VTTF’s prior written consent shall give VTTF the 
right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement. 
8.2    Contractor shall assign a single Officer to the VTTF.  Before re-assigning that 
officer and re-assigning a different Officer, Contractor shall meet and confer in good 
faith with the VTTF to discuss the re-assignment and receive input from the VTTF.  
Re-assignment inconsistent with the wishes of the VTTF is grounds for immediate 
termination of this Agreement.  However, the final decision regarding assignment of 
its personnel remains with Contractor. 
 
9. 
Insurance 
194 of 517

--- page 195 ---
- 5- 
 
Contractor shall not commence work or be required to commence work under this 
Agreement unless and until all insurance required under this Section has been 
obtained and such insurance has been approved by VTTF’s Risk Management and 
Contractor shall use diligence to obtain such insurance and to obtain such approval.  
Contractor shall furnish VTTF with certificates of insurance evidencing the required 
coverage, and there shall be a specific contractual liability endorsement extending 
Contractor’s coverage to include the contractual liability assumed by Contractor 
pursuant to this Agreement.  These certificates shall specify or be endorsed to 
provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be given, in writing, to VTTF of any pending 
change in the limits of liability or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.  
These requirements may be satisfied by a certificate of self-insurance. 
 
(1) 
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance.  Contractor 
shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement workers’ 
compensation and employer’s liability insurance providing full statutory 
coverage.  In signing this Agreement, Contractor certifies, as required by 
Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, (a) that it is aware of the provisions 
of Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to 
be insured against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-
insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor Code, and (b) that it 
will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work 
under this Agreement. 
 
(2) 
Liability Insurance.  Contractor shall take out and maintain during the term of 
this Agreement such bodily injury liability and property damage liability 
insurance as shall protect Contractor and all of its employees/officers/agents 
while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for 
damages for bodily injury, including accidental death, as well as any and all 
claims for property damage which may arise from Contractor’s operations 
under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Contractor, any 
subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or by an 
agent of either of them.  Such insurance shall be combined single limit bodily 
injury and property damage for each occurrence and shall not be less than the 
amount specified below. 
 
 
Such insurance shall include: 
(a) 
Comprehensive General Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $1,000,000 
(b) 
Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $1,000,000 
 
 
 
VTTF and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be named as additional 
insured on any such policies of insurance, which shall also contain a provision that 
(a) the insurance afforded thereby to VTTF and its officers, agents, employees, and 
servants shall be primary insurance to the full limits of liability of the policy and (b) if 
the VTTF or its officers, agents, employees, and servants have other insurance 
against the loss covered by such a policy, such other insurance shall be excess 
insurance only. 
 
195 of 517

--- page 196 ---
- 6- 
 
In the event of the breach of any provision of this Section, or in the event any notice 
is received which indicates any required insurance coverage will be diminished or 
canceled, VTTF, at its option, may, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Agreement to the contrary, immediately declare a material breach of this Agreement 
and suspend all further work and payment pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
10. Compliance With Laws 
All services to be performed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement shall be 
performed in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, County, and municipal 
laws, ordinances, and regulations, including but not limited to the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and 
activities receiving any Federal or County financial assistance.  Such services shall 
also be performed in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations, 
including but not limited to appropriate licensure, certification regulations, provisions 
pertaining to confidentiality of records, and applicable quality assurance regulations.  
In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and any applicable 
State, Federal, County, or municipal law or regulation, the requirements of the 
applicable law or regulation will take precedence over the requirements set forth in 
this Agreement.   
 
Contractor will timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary 
documentation of compliance. 
 
11. 
Non-Discrimination and Other Requirements 
A.  
General non-discrimination.  No person shall be denied any services provided 
pursuant to this Agreement (except as limited by the scope of services) on the 
grounds of race, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability (physical or 
mental), sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or domestic partner 
status, religion, political beliefs or affiliation, familial or parental status 
(including pregnancy), medical condition (cancer-related), military service, or 
genetic information.     
 
B.  
Equal employment opportunity.  Contractor shall ensure equal employment 
opportunity based on objective standards of recruitment, classification, 
selection, promotion, compensation, performance evaluation, and 
management relations for all employees under this Agreement.  Contractor’s 
equal employment policies shall be made available to County upon request.   
 
C.  
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.  Contractor shall comply with 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides 
that no otherwise qualified handicapped individual shall, solely by reason of a 
disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be 
subjected to discrimination in the performance of this Agreement.  This Section 
applies only to contractors who are providing services to members of the 
public under this Agreement.   
 
196 of 517

--- page 197 ---
- 7- 
 
D.  
Discrimination Against Individuals with Disabilities.  The Contractor shall 
comply fully with the nondiscrimination requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60-741.5(a), 
which is incorporated herein as if fully set forth.   
 
12. Retention of Records, Right to Monitor and Audit 
(a) Contractor shall maintain all required records for three (3) years after VTTF 
makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and Contractor shall 
be subject to the examination and/or audit of VTTF, a Federal grantor agency, and 
the State of California. 
 
(b) Reporting and Record Keeping:  Contractor shall comply with all program and 
fiscal reporting requirements set forth by appropriate Federal, State, and local 
agencies, and as required by VTTF. 
 
(c) Contractor agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to VTTF, to any Federal or 
State department having monitoring or review authority, to VTTF’s authorized 
representatives, and/or to any of their respective audit agencies access to and the 
right to examine all records and documents necessary to determine compliance with 
relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to determine 
compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and 
timeliness of services performed. 
 
13. Merger Clause & Amendments 
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement 
and incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties 
to this Agreement and correctly states the rights, duties, and obligations of each 
party as of this document’s date.  In the event that any term, condition, provision, 
requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or 
is inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in 
any Exhibit and/or Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the 
Agreement shall prevail.  Any prior agreement, promises, negotiations, or 
representations between the parties not expressly stated in this document are not 
binding.  All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed 
by the parties. 
 
 
14. Controlling Law and Venue 
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms or provisions, the rights and duties of 
the parties under this Agreement, the interpretation of this Agreement, the 
performance of this Agreement, and any other dispute of any nature arising out of 
this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without 
regard to its choice of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be 
venued either in the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States 
District Court for the Northern District of California. 
 
 
15. Notices 
 
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted 
under this Agreement shall be deemed to be properly given when both:  (1) 
197 of 517

--- page 198 ---
- 8- 
 
transmitted via facsimile to the telephone number listed below or transmitted via 
email to the email address listed below; and (2) sent to the physical address 
listed below by either being deposited in the United States mail, postage 
prepaid, or deposited for overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an 
established overnight courier that provides a tracking number showing 
confirmation of receipt. 
 
In the case of VTTF, to: 
 
Name/Title: Michael Leishman, Lieutenant 
Address 
400 County Center, RWC, CA 94063 
Telephone: 650-573-3592 
Facsimile: 
650-594-9327 
Email: 
mjleishman@smcgov.org 
 
 
 
In the case of Contractor, to: 
 
Name/Title: Dave Peruzzaro, Captain 
Address: 
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Telephone: 650-522-7684 
Facsimile: 
650-522-7601 
Email: 
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
The SMCVTTF agrees that the Commander will furnish to the San Mateo Police 
Department upon request any reports, summaries or other documents pertaining to 
the operation of the Task Force to the extent permitted by law. 
 
17. Electronic Signature 
If both VTTF and Contractor wish to permit this Agreement and future documents 
relating to this Agreement to be digitally signed in accordance with California law and 
County’s Electronic Signature Administrative Memo, both boxes below must be 
checked.  Any party that agrees to allow digital signature of this Agreement may 
revoke such agreement at any time in relation to all future documents by providing 
notice pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
For VTTF:   
☐ If this box is checked by VTTF, VTTF consents to the use of 
electronic signatures in relation to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
For Contractor:   ☐ If this box is checked by Contractor, Contractor consents to the 
use of electronic signatures in relation to this Agreement. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized 
representatives, have affixed their hands. 
 
198 of 517

--- page 199 ---
- 9- 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
BY_______________________ 
 
 
ED BARBERINI, CHIEF OF POLICE 
SAN MATEO POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY VEHCILE THEFT TASK FORCE 
 
 
 
 
BY________________________ 
 
MICHAEL LEISHMAN, LIEUTENANT 
VEHICLE THEFT TASK FORCE 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
(Revised 7/1/13) 
199 of 517

--- page 200 ---
ATTACHMENT I
Assurance of Compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as Amended

The undersigned (hereinafter called “Contractor(s)") hereby agrees that it will comply with
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, all requirements imposed by the
applicable DHHS regulation, and all guidelines and interpretations issued pursuant thereto.

The Contractor(s) gives/give this assurance in consideration of for the purpose of obtaining
contracts after the date of this assurance. The Contractor(s) recognizes/recognize and
agrees/agree that contracts will be extended in reliance on the representations and
agreements made in this assurance. This assurance is binding on the Contractor(s), its
successors, transferees, and assignees, and the person or persons whose signatures appear
below are authorized to sign this assurance on behalf of the Contractor(s).

The Contractor(s): (Checka or b)
L1 a. Employs fewer than 15 persons.

LI b. Employs 15 or more persons and, pursuant to section 84.7 (a) of the regulation (45 C.F.R.
84.7 (a), has designated the following person(s) to coordinate its efforts to comply with
the DHHS regulation.

a
a
a
a

| certify that the above information is complete and correct to the bestof my knowledge

mestumonssomel
“ef

*Exception: DHHS reguletions stete that: "If a recipient with fewer than 15 employees finds that, sfter

consultation with 2 dissbled person seeking its services, there is no method of complying with [the facility
Bocessibility regulations) other than making = significant alteration in its existing facilities, the recipient may, 25 =n
alternative, refer the handicapped person to other providers of those services thet are accessible."

sued by County of Son Mateos Contec Compliance Committoo August 5, 2

- 10-

200 of 517


--- page 201 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2121
File ID: 24-8397
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Network Hardware Replacement – Purchase
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Purchasing Agreement with 
CDW Government, LLC (CDW-G) for the purchase of network switches in the amount of $328,484.49; and authorize the 
Director of Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Network switches are the foundation of the City’s technology infrastructure. In addition to computers, telephones, and 
copiers, every wireless access point, video camera, or any of the growing number of Internet of Things (IoT) devices on any 
City site depends on network switches. The City’s strategy is to replace network switches after seven years of service to 
mitigate maintenance issues and support problems, and to keep equipment within industry standards. The network 
hardware replacement fund is based on this amortization schedule. On September 6, 2016, Council approved the previous 
cycle of network switches. This purchase agreement represents a continuation of these established technology 
replacement purchasing practices. 
Staff obtained a quotation for the proposed purchase through a purchasing cooperative known as Sourcewell Cooperative 
Purchasing (Sourcewell). Sourcewell contracts allow participants to pay less through competitively solicited, evaluated, and 
awarded contracts that leverage the cooperative buying power of local government agencies. Leveraging Sourcewell 
results in a net savings of 61% over the list price of $848,969 on this purchase. Purchasing from CDW-G, through 
Sourcewell, is recommended because of CDW-G’s quality of its customer support and services. The quotation from CDWG 
is provided for reference. In addition, the continued use of Juniper brand products is recommended due to Juniper’s rich 
feature set including unrivaled network intelligence, which will substantially contribute to proactive problem resolution 
and security. City staff is experienced with Juniper products which greatly reduces the need and expense of outside 
expertise for installation and maintenance and further reduces costs.
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any purchasing procedures approved by 
the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award of the contract that the procedures are in 
the best interest of the City. The Sourcewell procurement service offers competitively priced contracts for goods and 
services, avoiding costs normally associated with the development of highly technical bid specifications, while assuring 
that competitive prices were received. Based on the above, staff recommends approving the purchase of network 
equipment pursuant to the Master Purchasing agreement with CDW-G in the amount of $328,484.49.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds have been accrued and are available through the Network Hardware Replacement Fund for this purchase. The total 
amount of the purchase will be $328,484.49.
201 of 517

--- page 202 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility the 
purchase of network equipment may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – CDW-G Pricing Quote
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Engle, Systems and Network Manager
sengle@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7062
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
202 of 517

--- page 203 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A PURCHASE ORDER WITH CDW GOVERNMENT, 
LLC FOR THE PURCHASE OF REPLACEMENT NETWORK SWITCHES
($328,484.49)
WHEREAS, the City replaces network switches once they have exceeded their operational lifespan; and
WHEREAS, City staff have determined the inventory of network switches that were last replaced in 2016 
have reached the end of their operational lifespan per the replacement schedule; and
WHEREAS, the City, as a public sector agency, may participate in Sourcewell Cooperative Purchasing 
service (Sourcewell) which offers contracts that have been competitively bid and negotiated; and
WHEREAS, CDW Government, LLC (CDW-G) is a participating vendor under Sourcewell; and  
WHEREAS, CDW-G offers Juniper brand network switches for sale through Sourcewell; and
WHEREAS, City staff have determined Juniper brand network switches purchased from CDW-G best 
meets the City’s needs because Juniper brand network switches have proven to be of high quality, reliable, full-
featured, and with a low hardware failure rate; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing procedures 
approved by the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award for the contract that 
the procedures are in the best interest of the City for the particular contract; and
WHEREAS, based on the above, the Department of Information Technology recommends approval of a 
purchase order with CDW-G in the amount of $328,484.49 for Juniper brand network switches.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Council action is exempt from CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility the purchase of replacement network switches may have a significant effect on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
2.
Pursuant to Municipal Code section 3.60.070 (h)(3), the purchase of network switches from 
CDW-G through Sourcewell is in the best interest of the City because:
a.
Sourcewell offers competitively priced contracts for goods and services; and
b.
Sourcewell avoids costs normally associated with the development of highly technical bid 
specifications, while assuring that competitive prices were received; and
c.
Purchasing network switches from CDW-G through Sourcewell will result in cost savings for 
the City.
3.
The purchase order to CDW-G in the amount of $328,484.49 is approved, in accordance with 
the terms of the Sourcewell Cooperative Purchasing contract number 081419-CDW.
4.
The Director of Information Technology is authorized to execute the purchase order in 
substantially the same form presented on behalf of the City.
203 of 517

--- page 204 ---
Hardware
Software
Services
IT Solutions
Brands
Research Hub
QUOTE CONFIRMATION
Thank you for choosing CDW. We have received your quote.
STEVE ENGYL,
Thank you for considering CDW•G for your technology needs. The details of your quote are below. If 
you are an eProcurement or single sign on customer, please log into your system to access 
the CDW site. You can search for your quote to retrieve and transfer back into your system for 
processing.
For all other customers, click below to convert your quote to an order.
This quote is subject to CDW's Third Party Cloud Services Order Form Terms and Conditions set forth 
at 
https://www.cdw.ca/content/cdwca/en/terms-conditions/third-party-cloud-services-order-form-terms-
and-conditions.html.
Convert Quote to Order 
QUOTE #
QUOTE DATE
QUOTE REFERENCE
CUSTOMER #
GRAND TOTAL
NRWL994
1/10/2024
NRWL994
6671948
$328,484.49
QUOTE DETAILS
ITEM
QTY
CDW#
UNIT PRICE
EXT. PRICE
Juniper EX4400 24-Port 10GBase-X Ethernet Switch with 
2x100GbE Uplink
1
7373418
$6,466.00
$6,466.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4400-24X
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - power cable - power IEC 60320 C13 to 
NEMA 5-15 - 8 ft
1
1413287
$25.00
$25.00
Mfg. Part#: CBL-EX-PWR-C13-US
UNSPSC: 26121636
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - power supply - hot-plug   redundant - 550 
Watt
1
6523767
$289.00
$289.00
Mfg. Part#: JPSU-550-C-AC-AFO
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - expansion module - Gigabit Ethernet   10 
Gigabit SFP+ x
1
6493055
$795.00
$795.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4400-EM-4S
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper EX4400 48x 1GbE PoE Ethernet Switch
6
6989575
$4,100.00
$24,600.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4400-48P
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks power cable
6
3221656
$36.00
$216.00
Mfg. Part#: CBL-PWR-C15MHITEMPUS
UNSPSC: 26121636
204 of 517

--- page 205 ---
Page 2 of 5
QUOTE DETAILS (CONT.)
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - power supply - hot-plug   redundant - 
1600 Watt
6
6875749
$629.00
$3,774.00
Mfg. Part#: JPSU-1600-C-AC-AFO
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - expansion module - Gigabit Ethernet   10 
Gigabit SFP+ x
6
6493055
$795.00
$4,770.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4400-EM-4S
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper EX4100 48-Port PoE+ Ethernet Switch
43
7132548
$3,100.00
$133,300.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4100-48P
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks power cable - 8 ft
43
4274067
$25.00
$1,075.00
Mfg. Part#: CBL-PWR-C13-US-48P
UNSPSC: 26121636
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - power supply - redundant - 920 Watt
43
4111097
$549.00
$23,607.00
Mfg. Part#: JPSU-920-AC-AFO
UNSPSC: 39121004
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper EX4100 24-Port PoE+ Ethernet Switch
19
7132546
$2,100.00
$39,900.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4100-24P
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks power cable - 8 ft
19
4274067
$25.00
$475.00
Mfg. Part#: CBL-PWR-C13-US-48P
UNSPSC: 26121636
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - power supply - redundant - 920 Watt
19
4111097
$525.00
$9,975.00
Mfg. Part#: JPSU-920-AC-AFO
UNSPSC: 39121004
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper EX4100 12-Port PoE+ Switch
9
7132542
$1,395.00
$12,555.00
Mfg. Part#: EX4100-F-12P
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks 40 Gigabit Ethernet Direct Attach Copper 
Cable - direct at
8
3116981
$89.00
$712.00
Mfg. Part#: EX-QSFP-40GE-DAC50CM
UNSPSC: 26121609
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks 40 Gigabit Ethernet Passive Direct Attach 
Copper Cable - d
2
3136634
$119.00
$238.00
Mfg. Part#: QFX-QSFP-DAC-1M
UNSPSC: 26121609
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
205 of 517

--- page 206 ---
Page 3 of 5
QUOTE DETAILS (CONT.)
Juniper Networks direct attach cable - 3.3 ft
33
2154321
$69.00
$2,277.00
Mfg. Part#: EX-SFP-10GE-DAC-1M
UNSPSC: 26121609
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks direct attach cable - 10 ft
13
1920589
$79.00
$1,027.00
Mfg. Part#: EX-SFP-10GE-DAC-3M
UNSPSC: 26121609
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper 10GbE SR SFP+ Transceiver
3
6415751
$48.00
$144.00
Mfg. Part#: SFPP-10G-SR-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks - SFP+ transceiver module - 10 GigE
2
6468962
$79.00
$158.00
Mfg. Part#: SFPP-10G-LRT2-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper 1GE-LX SFP Optical Transceiver
41
7036109
$41.00
$1,681.00
Mfg. Part#: SFP-1G-LX-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper 1Gbps Transceiver
40
6935948
$26.00
$1,040.00
Mfg. Part#: SFP-1G-SX-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper 1GBase-LH SFP Transceiver
3
7535027
$159.00
$477.00
Mfg. Part#: SFP-1G-LH-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper 1000Base-T Gigabit Ethernet Transceiver Module
1
7143587
$60.00
$60.00
Mfg. Part#: SFP-1G-T-C
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
Juniper Networks Mist Wired Assurance and Marvis Virtual 
Network Assistant
20
6590192
$329.00
$6,580.00
Mfg. Part#: SUB-EX24-2S-1Y-N
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog - Software 
(081419-CDW)
Juniper Networks Wired Assurance and Virtual Network 
Assistant (VNA) - subs
49
6367421
$495.00
$24,255.00
Mfg. Part#: SUB-EX48-2S-1Y-N
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog - Software 
(081419-CDW)
Juniper Networks Wired Assurance and Virtual Network 
Assistant (VNA) - subs
9
6602653
$229.00
$2,061.00
Mfg. Part#: SUB-EX12-2S-1Y-N
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
These services are considered Third Party Services, and this purchase is subject to CDW’s  Third Party Cloud Services Terms and Conditions, 
unless you have a written agreement with CDW covering your purchase of products and services, in which case this purchase is subject to such 
206 of 517

--- page 207 ---
Page 4 of 5
other written agreement.
The third-party Service Provider will provide these services directly to you pursuant to the Service Provider’s standard terms and conditions or 
such other terms as agreed upon directly between you and the Service Provider. The Service Provider, not CDW, will be responsible to you for 
delivery and performance of these services. Except as otherwise set forth in the Service Provider’s agreement, these services are 
non-cancellable, and all fees are non-refundable.
SUBTOTAL
$302,532.00
SHIPPING
$0.00
SALES TAX
$25,952.49
GRAND TOTAL
$328,484.49 
PURCHASER BILLING INFO
DELIVER TO
Billing Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STEVE ENGLE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Payment Terms: NET 30-VERBAL
Shipping Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STEVE ENGLE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Shipping Method: DROP SHIP-GROUND
Please remit payments to:
CDW Government
75 Remittance Drive
Suite 1515
Chicago, IL 60675-1515
Sales Contact Info 
Kenny Stoller   |  (877) 246-8092 | kennsto@cdwg.com
LEASE OPTIONS
FMV TOTAL
FMV LEASE OPTION
BO TOTAL
BO LEASE OPTION
$302,532.00
$8,029.20/Month
$302,532.00
$9,296.81/Month
Monthly payment based on 36 month lease. Other terms and options are available. Contact your Account Manager for details. Payment quoted
is subject to change.    
Why finance?   
• Lower Upfront Costs. Get the products you need without impacting cash flow. Preserve your working capital and existing credit line. 
• Flexible Payment Terms. 100% financing with no money down, payment deferrals and payment schedules that match your company's
business cycles. 
• Predictable, Low Monthly Payments. Pay over time. Lease payments are fixed and can be tailored to your budget levels or revenue streams. 
• Technology Refresh. Keep current technology with minimal financial impact or risk. Add-on or upgrade during the lease term and choose to
return or purchase the equipment at end of lease. 
• Bundle Costs. You can combine hardware, software, and services into a single transaction and pay for your software licenses over time! We
know your challenges and understand the need for flexibility.   
General Terms and Conditions:   
207 of 517

--- page 208 ---
Page 5 of 5
This quote is not legally binding and is for discussion purposes only. The rates are estimate only and are based on a collection of industry data
from numerous sources. All rates and financial quotes are subject to final review, approval, and documentation by our leasing partners.
Payments above exclude all applicable taxes. Financing is subject to credit approval and review of final equipment and services configuration.
Fair Market Value leases are structured with the assumption that the equipment has a residual value at the end of the lease term.
Need Help?
My Account
Support
Call 800.800.4239
About Us | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions 
This order is subject to CDW's Terms and Conditions of Sales and Service Projects at
http://www.cdwg.com/content/terms-conditions/product-sales.aspx
For more information, contact a CDW account manager.
© 2024 CDW•G LLC, 200 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Vernon Hills, IL 60061 | 800.808.4239
208 of 517

--- page 209 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 13
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8367
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Appeal of a Planning Commission Approval of a New Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 477 9th Avenue (PA-2022-047)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission's decision to approve the Special Use Permit 
(SUP), Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for a new five-story 
mixed-use building with office uses and 120 residential units at 477 9th Avenue, based on the Findings and subject to the 
Conditions of Approval, and find that the project is Categorically Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act 
pursuant to Section 15332 (In-Fill Development Projects).
BACKGROUND:
On July 11, 2022, Stephen Siri of The Martin Group (Applicant), submitted a Planning Application (PA-2022-047) for a new 
mixed-use project consisting of 29,207 square feet of office uses and 120 residential units. The Planning Commission 
approved the proposed project on December 12, 2023, by a vote of 5-0. The Resolution with Findings and Conditions of 
Approval is included as Attachment 1. On December 21, 2023, Michelle Maccarra (Appellant) filed an appeal of the 
Planning Commission decision citing concerns related to the proposed removal of heritage trees along the building 
perimeter. The appeal form is included as Attachment 2. San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.08.090 authorizes 
the City Council to take action on an appeal of a Planning Commission decision. This staff report provides a summary of the 
project, the issues raised in the appeal, and a discussion of how the project complies with the applicable standards and 
policies for purposes of approving the project.  
As noted below, state law significantly limits the City’s ability to deny the project (or reduce its density) absent very narrow 
circumstances where the project would have a specific adverse impact on public health or safety based on objective 
written health or safety standards, as specified.  This state law is called the Housing Accountability Act.  
Project Description
The project site is located at 477 9th Avenue and is bounded by 9th Avenue to the south, S. Claremont Street to the east 
and the Caltrain rail corridor to the west. The site is zoned E2-2 (Executive Office with a maximum floor area ratio of 2.0) 
and has a parcel area of 1.6 acres (69,976 square feet). Adjacent uses include a two-story office building to the north, auto 
service shops to the east across S. Claremont Street, and one- and two-story mixed-use buildings (commercial/residential) 
to the south. A location map showing the project site and its vicinity is included as Attachment 3.
The project includes demolition of the existing one-story office structure and construction of a new five-story, 209,204 
square-foot mixed-use building, with 29,207 square feet of office space on the first two floors, and 120 for-rent residential 
apartment units on the third, fourth and fifth floors. The project includes 12 below market rate (BMR) units that would be 
affordable at the Very Low income category. Since two-third of the project’s floor area is devoted to residential uses, it 
qualifies as a Housing Accountability Act Project, which limits a local government’s ability to deny, reduce the density of or 
209 of 517

--- page 210 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
render infeasible a housing development project if objective standards are met. The project is located within 0.5-mile of a 
major transit stop, which is the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain station. Therefore, pursuant to Government Code Section 
65863.2 (AB 2097), this project is not subject to minimum parking requirements or parking in-lieu fees. However, the 
project is voluntarily proposing 150 parking stalls (112 for residents and 38 for office) on the first two floors.
As part of the project, removal of a total of 32 trees, seven of which qualify as heritage trees, is proposed. All trees 
proposed for removal are located within the proposed building footprint or other site improvements. The equivalent 
landscape unit (LU) value of the removed trees would be replaced as conditioned through a combination of planting of 
new trees and payment of an in-lieu fee in accordance with Municipal Code Chapter 27.71. The project proposes to 
preserve four heritage trees on-site, including two large Oak trees (trees #11 and #17) along the project street frontage, 
and to protect eight additional heritage trees located adjacent to the project site. The project proposes to plant 37 new 
trees, which includes eight trees in the parking lot and dog run area, 11 trees along both street frontages, and 18 trees 
within the second floor courtyard of the building. However, only 19 of the 37 trees are proposed at-grade and are credited 
as replacement planting. The project will pay an in-lieu fee toward the City’s Tree Planting Fund for the remainder loss of 
LU value as required by the Code. The in-lieu fee is anticipated to be approximately $50,325, and would be used by the 
City towards replanting trees throughout the city. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, elevations and 
landscape improvements are included in Attachment 4.
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Executive Office, which is intended for office park 
developments. A list of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance to them is included 
in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
The project site is zoned E2-2 (Executive office), which outlines development standards in Chapter 27.48 of the Municipal 
Code pertaining to density, floor area ratio (FAR), setbacks, parcel coverage and open space. The E2 zoning district allows 
residential units on parcels without a residential overlay, subject to the residential density in the R4 zoning district (50 
units per acre). A Project Data Table listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the project’s conformance to them is 
included as Attachment 5. As noted in the table, the project conforms to all applicable development standards, with the 
exception to certain development standards through state density bonus law (Government Code Section 65915) and 
associated concessions and waiver requests, including a 50% density bonus, increase in allowable floor area ratio, reduced 
at-grade open space and increase of number of compact parking stalls. 
Housing Accountability Act
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA), as implemented under Government Code Section 65589.5, establishes application 
review limitations for new development projects where at least two-thirds of the proposed square footage is designated 
for residential uses. Under the HAA, if a housing development project complies with applicable objective general plan and 
zoning standards and criteria, including design review standards, (and subdivision standards in other situations) then the 
local agency can only disapprove the project or require that it be developed at a lower density where it makes written 
findings that (1) the project would have a “specific adverse impact” on public health or safety, and (2) there is no feasible 
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse impact, both as specified.  Govt. §65589.5(j)(1).  A “specific, adverse 
impact” means “a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public 
health or safety standards, policies, or conditions.”  Govt. §65589.5(j)(1)(A).  
The proposed mixed-use development project contains at least two-thirds of the project square footage devoted to 
residential uses (166,491 square feet out of 209,204 square feet, inclusive of parking), and is therefore subject to the HAA. 
As proposed, this project meets all applicable objective standards in the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy 
documents.  Therefore, again, the City may only deny or reduce the density of the project if certain findings pertaining to 
adverse impacts to codified, objective public health or safety standards can be made.  Here, no such findings can be made 
because the proposed removal of trees is in compliance with Municipal Code Chapter 23.40 (Site Development Planning 
Application for Tree Removal) and thus does not legally qualify as specific adverse impacts on public health or safety, as 
further explained below.
210 of 517

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
State Density Bonus Law and Measure Y
The project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus Law in accordance with Government Code Section 65915. To 
comply with State Density Bonus Law and to implement the City’s Housing Element, the City must allow for the provision 
of increased residential density, reduced parking standards, as well as “concessions” and “waivers” or reductions from 
development standards for residential projects that set aside a certain percentage of units as affordable to Very Low, Low, 
or Moderate-Income households. 
The project site’s zoning designation of E2-2 permits a maximum base density of 50 units per acre, which yields the project 
site with a base density of 80 units. The applicant proposes to devote 15 percent of the 80 units (12 units) as affordable 
(below market rate or BMR) at the Very Low-Income level (50% Area Median Income), which entitles the applicant to a 
50% density bonus. In this case, the applicant is seeking the full 50% density bonus for a total density of 75 units per acre.  
The Measure Y density limit of 50 units per acre is preempted by state law, in that under the State Density Bonus Law the 
granting of a density bonus does not require an amendment to the General Plan, which includes Measure Y.  Govt. 
§65915(f)(5).
State Density Bonus Law also permits the applicant to request up to three concessions from development standards when 
this percentage of affordable units at the Very-Low Income level are provided. Applicants may also request unlimited 
waivers from City development standards if application of a City development standard would have the effect of physically 
precluding the construction of a project at the densities permitted. The applicant has requested one waiver to increase the 
Floor Area Ratio maximum from 2.0 to 3.0 to allow for additional residential square footage due to the above-grade 
parking garage that accounts for 0.9 of the project FAR. The applicant requests two concessions to reduce the at-grade 
open space requirement from 20 percent to 16 percent, and to increase the maximum number of compact stalls from 40 
percent to 50 percent of the total parking stalls provided. No waivers or concessions are requested for the building height 
as the project’s proposed building height (53’-6” at plate line) is compliant with the maximum 55-feet height limit set by 
Measure Y for this project site. 
In accordance with Government Code Section 65915(d)(1), the City shall grant the concession requests unless findings can 
be made that the concession would 1) not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide the affordable 
housing units, 2) have a specific adverse impact upon public health and safety, or 3) be contrary to state or federal law. 
Similarly, waivers need not be granted if they would have a specific adverse impact on health or safety and there is no 
feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the impact. Staff has evaluated the waiver and concession requests and 
has not found any evidence to support any of these findings to deny the requests. The reduced at-grade open space and 
increased compact stalls results in a cost savings that is less than the applicant’s estimated cost of constructing all 12 
affordable residential units. Lastly, the waiver request to exceed the maximum FAR is necessary to allow construction of 
the project at the densities permitted under the State Density Bonus Law. 
APPEAL:
As stated in the Appeal Form, the Appellant cited the following areas of concern with the proposed project:
1.
The Appellant contends that the proposed tree removal “is in direct conflict to the laws San Mateo has in place 
around tree preservation” under SMMC 27.71.150(e) and “the site design should make accommodations to 
preserve these [heritage] trees and all of the additional trees should be transplanted in Central Park by the 
builder;”
2.
The Appellant also states that, “The removal of these trees also goes against the 2030 General Plan” (General Plan 
Policy C/OS 6.1: Tree Preservation); and,
3.
According to the Appellant, environmental review regarding “mitigation measures” and “many heritage and 
protected trees have been removed in the last few years and this project could represent a significant cumulative 
effect but the analysis needs to be completed.”
The following is a summary of staff’s evaluation and response to the issues raised in the appeal:
1.
Proposed Tree Removal and Preservation
211 of 517

--- page 212 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All trees proposed for removal were reviewed in accordance with the City’s Landscape for Planning Application 
and Protected Tree Ordinance under Municipal Code Chapters 27.71 and 23.40. The Municipal Code defines a 
Protected Tree as any heritage tree or street tree. Heritage trees include any oak tree with a minimum diameter of 
10 inches measured at 54 inches above natural grade as well as any other species with a diameter of 15 inches 
measured at 54 inches above natural grade. The project site includes a total of 11 heritage trees, with seven 
proposed for removal. Of the heritage trees proposed for removal, the four located along the proposed building 
perimeter are the focus of the Appellant’s concern. An assessment of each of these four heritage trees and their 
suitability for preservation is provided below:
•
Tree #16 is a 41-inch Blackwood Acacia located at the corner on 9th Avenue and S. Claremont Street. The 
overall condition is fair but the structure is poor due to a codominant stem leaning against the street and 
ingrown bark. Several roots have been cut near the sidewalk, which may have a negative effect on the overall 
tree stability. Furthermore, this tree is classified as “invasive” by the California Invasive Plant Council. The tree 
has a low suitability for preservation and is not recommended to be retained for this project.
•
Tree #18 is a 26-inch Coast live oak located along 9th Avenue that is in fair condition. This tree appears to be in 
declining health due to a sparse crown foliage and dieback (decline) of the canopy. Retaining this tree will 
require heavy pruning of up to 25% of its root system and canopy due to the proposed building. This tree is not 
recommended for preservation due to concerns of the tree’s stability following removal of the structural roots 
and unbalanced canopy.
•
Tree #19 is a 37-inch Coast live oak located along 9th Avenue that is in poor condition with a sparse canopy, 
twig dieback and abnormally enlarged buttressed roots. This tree conflicts with the proposed building, utilities 
and sidewalk improvements. This tree is expected to lose more than 25% of its root system as a result of the 
building construction, which may compromise the stability of the tree. Therefore, this tree is not 
recommended to be retained.
•
Tree #3 is a 22-inch Chinese Elm located in the surface parking lot area that currently conflicts with the 
proposed underground stormwater treatment measures. This tree is in moderate health and may be suitable 
for preservation without changing the proposed building. However, preservation of this tree will require 
modification to the proposed stormwater treatment plan and surface parking lot configuration to remove one 
office parking space.
The project’s Preliminary Arborist Report is provided as Attachment 6. Staff, including the Community 
Development’s Managing Arborist, reviewed the report and concurred with the findings that the above trees are 
in low-moderate health with low suitability for preservation, except for Tree #3 in the parking lot, which is in 
moderate health. While the appellant cited Municipal Code Section 27.71.150(e) for the project to make every 
reasonable effort to preserve heritage trees, the code also specifies that heritage trees “shall be removed if their 
preservation would result in a threat to…[their] stability” or have “an unreasonable effect upon the economic 
enjoyment of the property, consistent with Chapter 13.40.” Based on these criteria, the above trees are not 
recommended for preservation as they would conflict with the proposed improvements and are expected to 
decline, regardless of management or treatment, as indicated in the report. 
Staff also reviewed the Appellant’s request to transplant the removed trees. This method of preservation is not 
required under the City’s Protected Trees Ordinance. The City currently does not have a program to receive 
transplanted trees and transplantation does not always guarantee success at the receiving site. This method 
requires excavation of the entire root ball under the drip line, which would likely threaten the health and stability 
of the tree, and would impact the public right-of-way. Given the challenge and low success rate, the City does not 
recommend transplanting as a method of preservation.
Given the trees’ low suitability for preservation and their conflict with the proposed improvements, there is 
sufficient evidence to justify removal of these heritage trees. The project proposes to plant a total of 37 new trees, 
212 of 517

--- page 213 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
including 19 replacement trees around the site and along both street frontages, and will pay in-lieu fees for the 
remainder of trees not planted on-site and at-grade. The project also proposes preservation of two heritage Oaks 
(trees #11 and 17), one of which is the largest heritage tree on-site. As proposed, the project complies with the 
City’s Landscape for Planning Application requirements and Protected Tree Ordinance.
2.
General Plan Policy for Tree Preservation
The Appellant raised concerns about the project meeting the City’s adopted General Plan Policy for Tree 
Preservation, C/OS 6.1: “Tree Preservation. Preserve heritage trees in accordance with the City’s Heritage Tree 
Ordinance.” Based on staff’s review, this policy focuses on implementation of the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance 
under Municipal Code Chapters 13.40, 23.40 and 27.71. As discussed previously, staff has evaluated the project’s 
proposed tree removals in accordance with the Municipal Code and determined that the proposed removals are 
justified, due to the low stability for preserving the heritage trees and their conflict with the proposed building 
footprint and site improvements.
The General Plan also contains policy C/OS 6.2 for Replacement Planting, which requires significant replacement 
planting for trees removed. The project meets this policy by providing a combination of on-site replacement tree 
plantings (24-inch and 36-inch box trees) and payment of in-lieu fees that are equivalent to the values of trees 
removed. Therefore, the project is consistent with the General Plan policies.
3.
Environmental Review
In review of the concerns regarding the “cumulative impact” of tree removals over the last three years and 
“mitigation measures” for nesting birds and migratory birds, the project is conditioned to address these concerns. 
Municipal Code Chapter 27.71 requires that all Planning Applications proposing tree removal shall first obtain a 
Site Development Permit (SDP). This process requires the equivalent landscape unit (LU) value of all trees removed 
to be replaced on-site with new trees. However, projects that are unable to replace the trees may pay in-lieu fees 
for the remainder of trees not physically replanted on-site. The SDP process is intended to offset the impacts of 
tree removals from all proposed development projects. Secondly, the project is conditioned to submit a report and 
pre-construction survey from a qualified ornithologist prior to issuance of any building permits, that identify any 
active nests on-site and demonstrate that the project shall conduct tree removal outside of the nesting bird period 
(after August 31 and before February 1), as required under Federal law through the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. 
Staff would like to clarify that the conditions of approval are not mitigation measures as they are required under 
Federal law for all projects. Implementation of these conditions would prevent disturbance of any nesting birds 
and raptors. 
Regarding concerns about loss of trees as a cumulative impact under CEQA, the project was reviewed for 
conformance with CEQA and found to be categorically exempt. Tree removals in an urban setting are not 
considered a significant cumulative CEQA impact if tree protection and replacement standards are met, and the 
City’s General Plan also contains policies (C/OS 6.1 and 6.2) that support the conclusion that tree removal and 
associated impacts are presumed to be a less than significant impact through the project’s compliance with the 
City’s Protected Tree Ordinance and replacement planting program. Additionally, the City’s adopted 
Environmental Impact Review (EIR) that was completed for the General Plan 2030 considers the cumulative 
impacts on biological resources, and states that the City’s replacement measures would reduce the impact to a 
less than cumulatively considerable level. Therefore, further environmental review is not needed for the proposed 
tree removal.
In summary, staff has evaluated the proposed project and the concerns raised by the Appellant and recommends that the 
City Council approve the proposed project as it meets all applicable policies and regulations (Attachment 1). The project 
also meets the City’s objective standards and findings to allow tree removal by providing a combination of replacement 
tree plantings and payment of in-lieu fees. Thus, there is sufficient evidence to allow the proposed tree removal. 
Furthermore, as explained above, the Housing Accountability Act (HAA) limits the City from denying or reducing the 
density of a project when all objective standards are met. The proposed tree removal will not have a specific, adverse 
213 of 517

--- page 214 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
impact on public health or safety, given that the project meets all objective standards and proposes adequate replacement 
landscaping and tree plantings, and payment of in-lieu fees that are equivalent to value of landscape units of removed 
trees.
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new mixed-use project, the project would be subject to several impact and in-lieu fees in effect at the time of the 
application filing date, including the ones listed below, which are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of building 
permits or occupancy: 
•
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee of approximately $50,325, assessed for each Landscape Unit value not physically 
planted on-site (at-grade or along street frontages).
•
Commercial Linkage Fee of approximately $86,000, to offset the impact of development projects on the need for 
affordable housing.
•
Child Care Development Fee to offset the impact on the need for future childcare space needs by new 
development.
•
Park Impact Fee to offset the increased demands on park and recreation facilities serving new developments.
•
Sanitary Sewer Connection Charge, for net increase of wastewater generation based on new dwelling units and 
increase in plumbing fixtures for commercial uses.
•
Transportation Improvement Fee of approximately $404,000, to offset the cost of transportation improvements to 
serve new development.
•
Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Impact Fee for net increase of wastewater generation per gallon of average 
daily flow.
•
South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fee, for net increase of wastewater generation based on new dwelling units 
and increase in plumbing fixture for commercial uses.
•
School Impact Fees, to offset the increased demands on school facilities caused by new development. This is 
collected by the San Mateo Union High School District for all schools in San Mateo.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the project meets the criteria to be Categorically 
Exempt from further environmental review pursuant to Section 15332 (Class 32 - In-Fill Development Projects). A 
Categorical Exemption Memorandum prepared by the City’s environmental review consultant, David J. Powers, and was 
included with the agenda report for the December 12, 2023 Planning Commission meeting (Attachment 7). The 
memorandum provides supporting evidence that the project is eligible for a Categorical Exemption since it is consistent 
with all applicable general plan and zoning designations, policies, and regulations; occurs within an urban setting on a site 
less than five acres in size; has no habitat value for endangered, rare, or threatened species; and is adequately served by 
all utilities and public services. It also does not present any unusual circumstance that would result in a significant effect on 
the environment. The project has been evaluated in the technical studies referenced in the memorandum for 
transportation, greenhouse gas emissions, noise and air quality; and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 
1. Regarding traffic, a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) concluded that the project will not result in any significant 
impacts based on the City’s adopted TIA Guidelines. The Appellant’s concern regarding the project’s potential adverse 
effect to nesting birds and migratory raptors is addressed by implementation of the Conditions of Approval. The proposed 
tree removal also does not cause a cumulative impact since the project will replace the LU value of all removed trees 
through a combination of replacement plantings and payment of in-lieu fees, consistent with the City’s Protected Tree 
requirements. Thus, the project would not result in any significant effects related to traffic, noise, air, water quality, or 
biological resources.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Public comments submitted to staff during the planning application review are included in Attachment 8. A total of 23 
public comments were received and are generally supportive of the project’s architectural style and creation of new 
housing units. Some concerns raised in the public comments are related to the proposed tree removal/preservation, 
sustainable construction practices, lack of sufficient on-site parking, neighborhood scale, and consideration for more 
214 of 517

--- page 215 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
family-sized units and amenities. Additional comments not specific to the project but generally pertaining to overall 
downtown development and resulting traffic congestion are also included. Additional public comments received following 
the publishing of this agenda report will be forwarded to the City Council for review and consideration at the Public 
Hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code section 65090, notice of this Public Hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper more than ten days in advance of this City Council meeting. In accordance with Government Code 
section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements in Section 27.08.050, this hearing was noticed to the 
following parties ten days in advance of the City Council meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in city-wide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 - Appeal Form to the City Council
Att 3 - Location Map
Att 4 - Project Plans
Att 5 - Project Data Sheet
Att 6 - Preliminary Arborist Report
Att 7 - Categorical Exemption Memorandum 
Att 8 - Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
lly@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7217
215 of 517

--- page 216 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2024) 
 
DENYING THE APPEAL AND UPHOLDING THE PLANNING COMMISION’S DECISION TO APPROVE A 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT, SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATION, AND USE OF A CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA) CATEGORICAL 
EXEMPTION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW MIXED-USE BUILDING CONSISTING OF OFFICE USES AND 
120 RESIDENTIAL UNITS LOCATED AT 477 9TH AVENUE 
(PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVENUE, MIXED-USE PROJECT) 
 
WHEREAS, Stephen Siri of the Martin Group (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a 
planning application (PA-2022-047) with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, and Site Development Planning Application, for construction of a new mixed-use 
building consisting of 29,207 square-feet of office uses and 120 residential units located at 477 9th Avenue 
(collectively referred to as the “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Project is located within the Downtown Area Plan study area; and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 authorize the 
Planning Commission to take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for Projects of six or more 
dwelling units and over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing and approved the Project 
on December 12, 2023 (continued from November 28, 2023 at the Applicant’s request) and considered 
all public comments; and 
 
WHEREAS, on December 21, 2023, Michelle Maccarra filed an Appeal of the Planning 
Commission’s decision to approve the Project based on concerns of the Project’s proposed removal of 32 
trees, seven of which are heritage trees; and  
 
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is considered a housing development project pursuant to the 
Housing Accountability Act (HAA), Government Code Section 65589.5 et seq., because it is a mixed-use 
development with at least two-thirds of the Project square footage devoted to residential uses; and  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the HAA, the City has limited discretion to deny, reduce the density for, 
or render a housing development project infeasible if objective standards are met; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the HAA, the City may only deny the Project or reduce the density if 
certain findings pertaining to adverse impacts to codified, objective public health or safety standards are 
made; and 
 
216 of 517

--- page 217 ---
WHEREAS, the proposed Project meets all applicable objective design standards within 
Municipal Code Chapter 27 (Zoning), other than those requested to be modified under State Density 
Bonus Law (California Government Code Section 65915), as set forth below; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City requires a Site Development Planning Application for Tree Removal, 
pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.40.040, and the Project meets all objective standards 
required for tree removals; and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.08.090 authorizes the City 
Council to take action on the Appeal of a Planning Commission decision; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing to consider the Appeal on                                      
February 20, 2024, and considered all public comments. 
 
 NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that:  
 
1. The Appeal is denied based on the analysis of the Project as a whole and substantial evidence 
in the record to uphold the Planning Commission’s decision to approve the Project. 
2. The decision of the Planning Commission to approve the Project based on findings and subject 
to the conditions of approval attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference is 
upheld. 
3. In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Pub. 
Resources Code §21000, et seq., the City Council finds on the basis of the whole record 
before it that the Project will not have a significant effect on the environment and is 
therefore Categorically Exempt from the provisions of CEQA under CEQA Section 15332 (In-
Fill Development Projects), as follows: 
a. The Project is consistent with the applicable General Plan designation and all 
applicable General Plan policies as well as the applicable zoning designation of E2-2 
(Executive Office with a 2.0 maximum Floor Area Ratio) and regulations.  
b. The Project site is located within the City of San Mateo on a Project site less than five 
acres (1.6 acres) that is surrounded by urban uses.  
c. The Project site has no value for endangered, rare, or threatened species. The Project 
will not have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or sensitive natural 
community, or on any species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status 
species, identified in local or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the 
California Department of Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
The Project will not have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected wetlands 
through direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other means, and will not 
substantially interfere with the movement of any native resident or migratory fish or 
wildlife species or with established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or 
impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites. 
217 of 517

--- page 218 ---
The Project will not conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting biological 
resources, such as a tree preservation policy or ordinance, nor will it conflict with the 
provisions of an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community 
Conservation Plan, or other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation 
plan.  
The Project will not impact any threatened or endangered biological resources, as the 
site is developed. The Project will include the removal of 32 trees and planting of 19 
new trees on the Project site, 11 of which are street trees. The Applicant will pay a 
fee in lieu for the difference between the number of trees removed and the number 
of new trees to be planted, as required under Municipal Code Chapters 23.40 and 
27.71. 
d. Approval of the Project will not result in any significant effects relating to traffic. Fehr 
& Peers, the City’s traffic consultant, prepared a Transportation Impact Assessment 
(TIA), and Steer, the City’s transportation demand management (TDM) consultant, 
prepared a TDM Plan. The TIA concludes that while the Project would generate a net 
increase in the number of vehicle trips during the weekday AM peak and PM peak 
hours and a net increase in the Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) when compared to the 
existing uses, it will have a less than significant impact through the Project design and 
incorporated conditions of approval which includes implementation of the TDM Plan.  
The TDM plan contains numerous measures to encourage use of alternative 
transportation modes, including reduced parking, new resident and employee 
packets, an on-site TDM coordinator, bike lockers, sustainable transportation 
incentives, etc.  
The Project will not conflict with an applicable congestion management program and 
will not result in a change in air traffic patterns. The Project will not substantially 
increase hazards due to a design feature or incompatible uses, result in inadequate 
emergency access or inadequate parking capacity, conflict with other adopted 
policies, plans, or programs regarding public transit, bicycle, or pedestrian facilities, 
or otherwise decrease the performance or safety of such facilities. All safety elements 
will be designed to meet applicable California Building, Fire, Safety and any other 
requirements. 
e. Approval of the Project will not result in any significant effects relating to noise with 
the incorporation of Project conditions of approval. The Project, as conditioned, will 
not expose persons to, or generate, noise levels, groundborne vibration, or 
groundborne noise levels in excess of standards established in the local general plan 
or noise ordinance, or applicable standards, and will not create a substantial 
permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the Project vicinity above existing 
levels.  
218 of 517

--- page 219 ---
The Project may expect a substantial temporary or periodic increase in groundborne 
vibration during construction. Noise generated during construction would differ 
depending on the construction phase and the type and amount of equipment used at 
the construction site. The Applicant will be required to abide by the Project conditions 
of approval, construction work hours, and the City’s Noise Element and Noise 
Ordinance.  
f. Approval of the Project will not result in any significant effects relating to air quality. 
The Project will not conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable air 
quality plan, violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially to an existing 
or Projected air quality violation, result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of 
any criteria pollutant, expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant 
concentrations, or create objectionable odors affecting a substantial number of 
people.  
The Project will have limited impact on air quality and would not subject surrounding 
businesses, visitors, residents, and/or neighbors to objectionable odors. 
The Project would not result in additional exposure of sensitive receptors to 
substantial pollutant concentrations in the long term but has the potential to 
generate dust and other pollutants, during demolition, grading, and construction. The 
impact of dust generated by demolition, grading and/or construction activities is 
temporary in nature and limited to site preparation and future construction of the 
new development. The Project conditions of approval would minimize dust and 
vehicle emissions during grading and construction activities.  
g. Approval of the Project will not result in any significant effects relating to water 
quality. The Project will not violate any water quality standards or waste discharge 
requirements or substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere substantially 
with groundwater recharge as the site is not serviced by nearby wells, nor will it alter 
the existing drainage pattern of the site or area, create or contribute runoff water 
which would exceed the capacity of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems.  
The Project will not otherwise substantially degrade water quality or place housing or 
structures within a 100-year flood hazard area since the Project is not located within 
a 100-year flood plain. 
h. The site is adequately served by all required utilities. The Project would not exceed 
wastewater treatment requirements of the applicable Regional Water Quality Control 
Board, require or result in the construction of new water or wastewater treatment 
facilities or expansion of existing facilities, require or result in the construction of new 
storm water drainage facilities or expansion of existing facilities. The Public Works 
department has determined that there is adequate infrastructure capacity serving the 
site to adequately handle the increases. The Project is conditioned to obtain a Will 
Serve letter from CalWater prior to issuance of any building permit. 
219 of 517

--- page 220 ---
i. 
The site is adequately served by all required public services. The Project would not 
result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision of new or 
physically altered governmental facilities, need for new or physically altered 
governmental facilities, in order to maintain acceptable service ratios, response times 
or other performance objectives for Fire protection, Police protection, Schools, Parks, 
or other public facilities. The Project will be subject to various impact fees, and is 
located in an urbanized area served by municipal services, therefore it is not 
anticipated to significantly impact public services or require the additional 
construction of public facilities as the proposed multi-family residential use can be 
accommodated with existing levels of service.  
4. Under the HAA, the City has determined that the proposed tree removals will not have a 
specific, adverse impact on public health or safety, because the Project meets all objective 
standards and provides adequate replacement landscaping and tree plantings, and payment 
of in-lieu fees that are equivalent to value of landscape units of removed trees all in 
compliance with Municipal Code Chapter 23.40 (Site Development Planning Application for 
Tree Removal). Therefore, the Project is consistent with the applicable policies and objective 
standards of the City’s Site Development Planning Application for Tree Removal. 
 
5. The Project is consistent with the applicable policies of the City’s General Plan and conforms 
to applicable policies and objective standards of the Land Use, Circulation, Urban Design, 
Housing, Conservation and Open Space, and Noise Elements, as follows: 
a. The Project conforms to Policy LU 1.8 of the Land Use Element, which encourages 
allowance of mixed-use developments that include multi-family dwellings in non-
residential land use categories. The Project combines both office uses and multi-
family residential uses, which also complements the existing commercial uses in the 
vicinity and in the adjacent downtown core. In conformance with Policies LU 2.4 and 
3.1, the Project proposes these uses at high intensities and densities to further the 
downtown area as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City. 
b. In conformance with Policies C2.5 and 2.10 of the Circulation Element, a 
Transportation Impact Analysis and Transportation Demand Management Plan have 
been prepared for the Project. The Project will also install new pedestrian 
enhancements such as sidewalks, ramps, and streetlights in conformance with 
Policies C4.4 and C4.5. Lastly, the Project is within 0.5-mile of a major public transit 
stop, which is the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station. Therefore, subject to 
Government Code Section 65863.2 (Assembly Bill 2097), there are no minimum 
parking requirements or parking in-lieu fees for this Project. 
c. The Project conforms to Policies UD 2.3 of the Urban Design Element in that the 
proposed design and materials will greatly enhance an area without a predominant 
style. The Project proposes a Spanish Revival Style building with traditional 
elements, such as arched entries and enhanced building corners, and uses high-
quality materials that consist of cast stone base and cement plaster walls. In 
220 of 517

--- page 221 ---
addition, the Project provides an abundance of public improvements and open 
space opportunities, such as a mini dog park, widened sidewalks and public plaza, in 
conformance with Policies UD 2.5 and 2.9. 
d. The Project conforms to Policy H1.3 of the 2023-2031 Housing Element in that the 
Project provides 120 new rental housing units in a mixed-use building. In addition, the 
Project devotes twelve of the total units to the very low-income category and will be 
responsible for payment of a Commercial Linkage Fee in conformance with the City’s 
below-market-rate inclusionary program and Policy H3.3. 
e. Policy C/OS 6.6 of the Conservation and Open Space Element requires that new 
developments provide street trees, which this Project conforms to in that it will plant 
a total of 19 new trees, 11 of which are street trees that are proposed in conformance 
to the Street Tree Master Plan. The Project will pay an in-lieu fee for the remainder 
of any trees that are not replaced on-site. 
f. The Project conforms to Policies N1.1 and N1.2 of the Noise Element in that a Noise 
and Vibration Report was prepared for the Project, which provides noise reduction 
measures and recommendations. An Acoustical Analysis will be required for the 
Project at the building permit stage to ensure that operational noise levels will not 
exceed noise limits. In addition, the Project shall conform to Policy N2.1 in that noise 
measures and monitoring during construction have been included as conditions of 
approval. 
 
6. The Project conforms to applicable policies and objective standards of the City’s Downtown 
Area Plan, as follows: 
a. In conformance with Policy I.3, the Project proposes a well-designed Spanish Revival 
Style building at an appropriate building scale and massing, which serves as a 
landmark entrance to the downtown core from east of the railroad corridor. The 
Project also integrates new street trees, sidewalks and a public plaza to further 
enhance pedestrian connectivity from 9th Avenue and S. Claremont Street to the 
downtown core. 
b. The Project conforms to Policies II.8 and II.10 in that the Project integrates both office 
and residential uses in the E2-2 zoning district to support the downtown retail core 
and complement the existing office, commercial, and residential uses in the 
surrounding South Claremont sub-area. 
c. The Project’s proposed building setbacks (7’-6”) and building height (53’-6” plate line) 
conforms to the minimum setbacks and building height provisions of the Zoning Code 
and provides enhanced sidewalks along the Project street frontages for substantial 
conformance with Policies III.2 and III.3. The Project proposes to increase the 
maximum bulk or Floor Area Ratio (FAR) limits from 2.0 to 3.0 and to reduce at-grade 
open space from 20% to 15%, which are allowed as a waiver and concession request 
under the State Density Bonus Law (California Government Code Section 65915).  
d. In conformance with Policies III.7 and III.8, the Project activates the pedestrian realm 
with new landscaping, bicycle parking, street trees at the street-level that is 
221 of 517

--- page 222 ---
consistent with the Street Tree Master Plan and other recently approved 
development projects in the downtown area. 
 
 
 
7. The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval to allow residential uses are approved based on the findings that: 
a. The Project is a mixed-use development that results in an increase of office uses 
(approximately 7,606 square-feet of net new gross floor area) and new housing units, 
which is consistent with the existing uses of the site and surrounding neighborhood. The 
Project has also been analyzed to not cause disturbance to the surrounding 
neighborhood with respect to traffic or noise. 
b. Granting of the Special Permit for residential uses will not adversely affect the general 
health, safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to 
adjacent property by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, 
heat, fumes or industrial waste given that the proposed residential uses are compatible 
with existing residential uses to the northwest and has been conditioned to address these 
concerns through a detailed construction plan and implementation of trip reduction 
measures. 
 
8. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application for 
construction of a mixed-use building and associated Conditions of Approval are approved 
based on the following findings: 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character 
of the neighborhood in that: 
i. The Project proposes a high-quality, Spanish Revival Style building using 
traditional details and contemporary materials that positively enhance the 
existing neighborhood character of the surrounding area; 
ii. The Project serves as a positive transition between the existing office, commercial 
and residential uses within the South Claremont neighborhood to the downtown 
retail core, by providing new sidewalks, street trees and streetlights to further 
enhance the 9th Avenue corridor;  
iii. The Project provides substantial site plan and landscape improvements to create 
an inviting, walkable pedestrian realm that substantially conform with the City’s 
guidelines relating to sidewalks. 
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that: 
i. The Project is consistent with Land Use Policy LU 1.14 of the City’s General Plan 
allowing residential uses in nonresidential land use areas without a residential 
overlay district through a Special Use Permit. The Project provides residential and 
222 of 517

--- page 223 ---
office uses that together complement existing commercial and residential uses in 
the vicinity and in the downtown core to the west; 
ii. The Project has analyzed traffic, circulation, parking, and noise to minimize 
impacts to the neighborhood; 
iii. The Project is consistent with the General Plan and Zoning Code excepting 
standards modified under the State Density Bonus law; and, 
iv. The Project is in substantial conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, Bicycle 
Master Plan, and Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan. 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that: 
i. The Project consists of a new mixed-use building with office uses and residential 
uses at high intensities and densities in an area well-served by public transit; 
ii. The Project provides new, quality housing units, particularly rental housing to 
further opportunities for those unable to manage the expense of ownership 
housing; and, 
iii. The Project optimizes the Project vicinity’s development potential for mixed-use 
commercial and residential uses to further downtown as the social, cultural and 
economic center of the City. 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site, including 
the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance and replacement planting requirements. 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through conditions of 
approval. 
9. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) for the 
removal of major vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on 
the following findings: 
a. The Project will result in the removal of 32 existing trees, seven of which qualify as 
heritage trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the development 
of the proposed Project building, stormwater treatment and site improvements. Staff 
assessed the heritage trees proposed for removal and determined the trees to be in low-
moderate health with low suitability for preservation. The Project proposes appropriate 
replacement landscaping to enhance the site and pedestrian realm through planting of 
19 trees, including 11 new street trees along both frontages of the Project. All proposed 
223 of 517

--- page 224 ---
street trees comply with the City’s Street Tree Master Plan’s list of designated tree species 
for the Project site.  
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of 
approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision 
of extensive landscaping, including planting of 19 new trees, 11 of which are street trees, 
as shown on the Project plans, and/or through the payment of a fee to the City’s tree 
planting fund. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
224 of 517

--- page 225 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
477 9TH AVE 101, SAN MATEO, CA 94402-1854 
 PARCEL # 033281130 
 AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON __________ 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 BELOW MARKET RATE (INCLUSIONARY) PROGRAM – The applicant shall identify the Below 
Market Rate (BMR) units on the floor plans on all building permit plans to demonstrate 
compliance with the City’s BMR (Inclusionary) Program. BMR units shall: 
(A)    Consist of two studios, five one-bedrooms, and five two-bedroom units. 
(B)    Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as 
market rate units within the project, including landscaping; 
(C)    Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City; 
(D)   Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units; 
(E)    Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units; 
(F)    Generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units, or they may be up to 
10% smaller than market units if they meet the following minimum sizes: 
•       Studio Units - 450 square feet 
•       One bedroom units - 600 square feet 
225 of 517

--- page 226 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 2 of 36 
 
•       Two bedroom units - 900 square feet 
•       Three bedroom units - 1100 square feet 
(G)   Have access to all on-site amenities; and 
(H)   Interior unit amenities such as floor covering, appliance and other fixtures, shall be 
specified in the BMR agreement executed prior to issuance of building permit and may 
differ from market rate units; and, 
(I)      Have equal proportion of units with and without balconies as market rate units, if 
applicable. 
 (PLANNING/HOUSING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 CONSTRUCTION NOISE – As required in the Noise and Vibration Assessment prepared by 
Illingworth & Rodkin dated August 25, 2023, the applicant and contractor shall place and 
operate construction equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing 
sensitive receptors. Construction equipment shall be well-maintained and used judiciously 
to be as quiet as possible, as such the applicant and contractor shall incorporate the 
following standards:  
(a) The applicant or their designated contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan 
identifying the schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. This 
construction plan shall be submitted to the Building and Planning Division subject to the 
review and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee prior 
to the issuance of any construction, grading or demolition permit. 
(b) The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate a “disturbance 
coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any complaints about 
construction noise. The disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise 
complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures be implemented to 
reduce the noise impact. The applicant or their designated contractor shall conspicuously 
post a construction project sign that includes a telephone number for the disturbance 
coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to neighbors 
regarding the construction schedule. 
(c) The applicant or their designated contractor shall provide a plan for construction 
staging areas, which shall be established at locations that will create the greatest distance 
between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors nearest the 
project site during all project construction. The construction staging plan shall be 
submitted to the Planning Division and Public Works, subject to review and satisfaction of 
the Community Development and Public Works Directors, or their designees, prior to 
226 of 517

--- page 227 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 3 of 36 
 
issuance of any construction, grading or demolition permit.  
(d) Quieter saws, cement mixers, cranes, dozers, excavators, graders, and pavers shall be 
selected. No individual device or piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 
90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet from the source, in accordance with San Mateo Municipal 
Code section 7.30.060(e).  
(e) All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be equipped with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment.  
(f) Idling of internal combustion engines for longer than five minutes in duration shall be 
strictly prohibited.  
(g) Stationary noise-generating equipment shall be located as far as possible from 
sensitive receptors and property lines. If they must be located within 30 feet of receptors 
and property lines, adequate muffling (with temporary barriers where feasible and 
appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors to 90 
dBA. All temporary barriers used shall be eight feet in height at minimum, continuous 
from grade to top, with no cracks or gaps, and have a minimum surface density of three 
pounds per square foot (e.g., one-inch thick wood fence boards).  
(h) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air compressors and 
other stationary noise sources where technology exists. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 EXCAVATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit a compliance letter from San Mateo 
County Environmental Health Services to the Planning Division subject to the satisfaction 
of the Community Development Director, or their designee, prior to issuance of a 
demolition or site development permit, whichever is issued first. The compliance letter 
shall indicate that site soils have been tested prior to disposal to confirm that the 
concentration of constituents present in site soils do not exceed hazardous waste criteria 
of local, state and federal regulations. If the concentration of constituents in the project 
site soils exceed hazardous waste criteria, the letter shall document how the project 
complies with city, regional, state, and federal laws that require the safe handling, 
removal, and disposal of hazardous building materials, prior to the start of building 
demolition activities. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 LANDSCAPE SOIL TESTING – The applicant shall submit a soils report prepared by a Soil 
Testing Laboratory for review and approval by the Planning Division. The report shall 
analyze the existing soil conditions and recommend any corrective action or soil 
amendment necessary to make the soil suitable to support the proposed plantings.  Any 
proposed corrective action or soil amendments shall be incorporated into the landscape 
plans to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director or his/her designee. 
(PLANNING) 
227 of 517

--- page 228 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 4 of 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 NESTING BIRDS AND MIGRATORY RAPTORS – All potential nesting substrates (e.g., bushes, 
trees, grasses, and other vegetation) that are planned to be removed by the project shall 
be removed prior to February 1 or after August 31, unless the applicant or his/her 
designee complies with the following procedures: 
(A) Should construction activities be scheduled between February 1 or after August 31, 
pre-construction surveys shall be conducted by a qualified ornithologist to ensure that no 
nests will be disturbed during project implementation. These surveys shall be conducted 
no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of construction. During this survey, the 
ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other potential nesting habitats within 250 feet of 
the limits of construction activities. If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work 
areas to be disturbed by these activities, the ornithologist shall determine the extent of a 
construction-free buffer zone (typically 250 feet for raptors and 50 feet for other species), 
to ensure that nests of species protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and California 
Department of Fish & Wildlife shall not be disturbed during project implementation. These 
buffers may be increased or decreased, as appropriate, depending on the bird species and 
the level of disturbance anticipated near the nest with the permission of the ornithologist.  
(B) The applicant shall submit a report prepared by a qualified ornithologist indicating the 
results of the survey and any designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division 
subject to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her 
designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 PHASING PLAN – The applicant shall submit a complete phasing plan indicating all on-site 
and off-site infrastructure improvements and their estimated duration of construction. 
The applicant shall also indicate at what phase each off-site improvement is to be 
constructed. This plan shall be subject to the review by the Community Development 
Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL – The applicant shall obtain a Site 
Development Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing 
trees with a diameter of 6 inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site Development 
Permit for tree removal shall authorize the applicant to replace on-site and street trees 
equivalent or greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by 
planting on-site and street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established 
228 of 517

--- page 229 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 5 of 36 
 
in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of 
both. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN – The applicant shall enter into a contract with a pest control 
specialist and develop a vector control plan to be submitted for review and approval by 
the Community Development Director and the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector 
Control District. The plan shall describe measures which shall be taken by the applicant to 
prevent rodent and pest infestation to adjacent sites, specify pest control measures, cover 
all phases of demolition, landscaping removal, and construction plus for a minimum 
period of six months after the completion of construction. The plan shall also specify that 
modifications will be developed and implemented should additional pest control 
measures be required during construction or demolition activity, subject to approval by 
the Community Development Department Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
12 AMMR FOR EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENINGS FACING THE COURTYARD, 
LEVELS 3 TO 5 – The applicant shall, as a prerequisite to obtaining any permit issuance, 
submit an Alternative Means and Methods Request (AMMR) to the Building Division. The 
AMMR shall be subject to review and approval by the Building Official. The application 
must include previously approved AMMR by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
(SMCFD), to support the proposed alternative methods of compliance. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
229 of 517

--- page 230 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 6 of 36 
 
 
 
16 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, 
signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and 
integrate recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and 
signed by the Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications 
substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
19 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
20 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan 
approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director 
of Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of 
whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
230 of 517

--- page 231 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 7 of 36 
 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be 0.3% of the project valuation or $30,000, 
whichever is greater. The amount of the initial deposit shall not exceed $100,000. Public 
Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed 
until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit at 
the discretion of the City, for any costs in excess of the deposit.  Invoices shall not become 
delinquent (shall be paid within 30 days of receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall 
be paid in full.  The City will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 NOTICE OF INTENT – For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the 
project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm 
Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board 
(SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction activity.  To obtain 
coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water 
Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity 
NPDES Permit.  Proof of permit shall be provided to the Public Works Department along 
with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP 
designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM –  As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment 
Form located here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The 
Form shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
231 of 517

--- page 232 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 8 of 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 REVERSION TO ACREAGE FINAL MAP – The applicant shall file a final map, prepared by a 
person authorized to practice land surveying in California, to eliminate the condominium 
subdivision on the parcel in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.52. 
The reversion to acreage final map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works 
prior to City Council approval and recorded by the County Recorder’s Office prior to 
issuance of the first building permit.  
 
A map guarantee shall be submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to 
release of the map to the title company for recordation. Prior to the City’s release of the 
final map to the title company, the applicant may, at the discretion of the Director of 
Public Works designee, be required to submit to the City an electronic copy of the map in 
PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of recordation.  It is the 
applicant's responsibility to check with their title company and the County Recorder’s 
Office to determine the time necessary to have the map recorded after City approval. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction permit, paying the required fees and 
posting the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution 
prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the 
building permit application is made. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) 
and the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements. 
 
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, 
at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
29 STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with Municipal Code 
232 of 517

--- page 233 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 9 of 36 
 
Section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24-inch box shall be the minimum size for street trees planted 
along public streets and shall include tree grates and root barriers as specified by the City 
Standard Drawings 3-1-847 and 3-1-933. The landscape plans shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD 
ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 TREE PROTECTION PLAN – Prior to the issuance of any building permit, an Arborist report 
and protection plan shall be required. All tree protection measures shall be consistent 
with the following Code requirements (SMMC 13.40.080):  
I. Six (6’) foot high chain-link fence shall enclose the entire Tree Protection Zone (TPZ) of 
the tree(s). When fencing the TPZ area is not feasible, Trunk wraps in combination with 
Root & Soil buffers as specified in the Administrative Guidelines shall be installed within 
the TPZ to protect the trunk, roots, and branches from injury and avoid soil compaction.  
II. Soil Compaction and disturbance from vehicles, storage of materials, structures, paving, 
excavation, grading, soil deposit, drainage, leveling, etc., shall be avoided within the TPZ. 
Otherwise, provisions must be made in the TPP to protect roots from injury and avoid soil 
compaction.  
III. Trenching or excavation for irrigation, utility lines, services, pipe, drainage, or other 
improvements below grade shall be located outside of the TPZ. Otherwise, provisions 
must be made in the TPP to protect roots from injury and avoid soil compaction.  
IV. Pruning and Removal of Protected Trees shall be avoided. Otherwise pruning 
specifications must be made in the TPP.  A separate permit shall be required when pruning 
more than 25% of existing foliage or cutting roots closer than six (6) times the trunk 
diameter of a Protected tree.  
V. Disposal or depositing of oil, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents, or other materials 
within the TPZ or in drainage channels, swales, or areas that may lead to the TPZ shall be 
avoided.  
VI. Periodic monitoring for Protected trees by the Project Arborist is required on a regular 
basis and whenever activities occur within the TPZ.  
VII. The approved TPP shall contain the signature of the property owner and permit 
applicant.  (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and 
233 of 517

--- page 234 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 10 of 36 
 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD 
ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
32 ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a 
qualified acoustical consultant which shall contain recommendations to ensure the 
building’s interior noise levels comply with the levels established in the General Plan or 
Municipal Code, whichever is more restrictive, subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect on January 13, 
2022. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE – The applicant shall pay the Affordable Commercial Housing 
Linkage Fee in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61 and Resolution 84 (2016), 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect on 
January 13, 2022. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 EXTERIOR LIGHTING – An exterior lighting plan and light standard details shall be included 
in the plans submitted for building permit(s). The plans shall include: 1) the location on the 
property where each type of outdoor luminaire will be installed, indicating the type of 
fixture; and 2) the specifications for each outdoor luminaire to be installed including the 
manufacturer’s catalog cuts, photometric study and drawings. All outdoor lighting shall 
comply with San Mateo Municipal Code 23.54 Building Security Code. Additionally, all 
outdoor lighting that is not regulated by State or federal law, shall be fully shielded with 
an opaque or translucent cover to avoid glare, and shall be downward directed, such that 
all light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a defusing element, or 
indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the luminaire is below the horizontal 
plane, as determined by photometric test or certified by the manufacturer. 
(PLANNING/POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
234 of 517

--- page 235 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 11 of 36 
 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months 
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All 
screening for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related 
operational/utility devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial 
conformance with the approved planning application. All above ground utilities and 
equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure 
or parapet wall with materials compatible with the building design subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES – All above-grade trash and recycling enclosures 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
41 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
235 of 517

--- page 236 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 12 of 36 
 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping 
forms are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
43 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from 
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
46 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE –  The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 PARKING GARAGE SECURITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show:  
 
(A) Electrically operated closures to prevent unauthorized access into the parking garage. 
The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging shall be provided with reopening 
devices which will function to stop and reopen the closure in case the closure is 
obstructed when closing. 
 
(B) Access to the parking garage shall be restricted outside of standard business hours 
(restricted hours defined as bank holidays, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday through Friday 
236 of 517

--- page 237 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 13 of 36 
 
from 6:00pm to 6:00am, or as specified in a shared use agreement the City is a party to). 
 
(C) Openings into the garage which are not for vehicular or human passage shall be 
provided with security grilles or screens.  
  
(D) Digital keypads and/or wireless “click to enter” systems complying with SECURED 
BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL shall be provided to allow for entry into all 
portions of the garage at all times.  
  
(E) If egress doors are required by code to connect secure garage spaces with different 
uses, the egress doors shall be alarmed and monitored.  
  
(F) Exterior doors or gates providing access into secure areas of the parking garage shall be 
equipped with self-closing devices, locked during restricted hours, and only be accessible 
when garage access is restricted through the use of keys, key fob or remote keyless entry 
system devices furnished to building tenants.  
  
(G) All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have doors 
which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and automatically 
upon exit.  
  
(H) Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers.  
  
(I) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security Ordinance as it 
applies to SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the parking garage. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point-by-point 
photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet 
across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-
candles.  Photometric calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, 
minimum foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum 
uniformity shall be included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures 
selected shall be provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with 
the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS.  (POLICE) 
237 of 517

--- page 238 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 14 of 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020  CITY 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the following 
allowances for the placement of emergency communications equipment on the building 
permit plans: 
 
(A) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked 
server room that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to be a fire control 
room); 
 
(B) One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof.  The conduit shall be 
provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull string and ring; 
 
(C) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof.  The maximum allowable distance from 
the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 feet; 
 
(D) One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator.  An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if the 
building is not provided with an emergency generator; 
 
(E) 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and, 
 
(F) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to supply a 
functional emergency responder radio coverage system. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior 
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These access 
systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the 
building.  Access system placement location is subject to the review and approval of the 
Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval of the first building permit for the 
project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of Police or his/her designee 
at the time of installation. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
238 of 517

--- page 239 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 15 of 36 
 
 
 
51 SITE FURNITURE – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show permanent 
site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from 
laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing elevation 
changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site furniture shall be 
secured at the close of each business day. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and exterior 
doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, and basement levels. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and 
storage equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  
(POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
54 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project lateral connection (MH 284-19X to MH 305-05X).  The video 
inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer video inspection company in 
accordance with City standards and the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) and shall 
be completed prior to issuance of the building permit for the superstructure. The video of 
the inspection shall be reviewed with the Department of Public Works and any cracked or 
broken areas of the line along the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his 
expense.  The required repairs (spray foam-RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of roots, or 
replacement), as determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure submitted by the applicant for permit plan 
check.  All necessary repairs to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior to 
connection of the project lateral to the sewer. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show all sanitary sewer lines to be clean and inspected.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
239 of 517

--- page 240 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 16 of 36 
 
 
 
55 COVERED PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans for the superstructure 
shall show that water from the covered parking garage shall not be discharged onto the 
public street. The applicant shall direct discharge from covered or underground garage to 
the City's sanitary sewer system.  Stormwater runoff from the roof or other exposed areas 
of the project shall not discharge to these garage drains.  The design shall be done by a 
licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings subject to 
the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee. No increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream.  In addition, 
discharge shall conform to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water 
Quality Control Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard 
engineering practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties.  
All drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose 
signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to 
the City for review and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the 
building permit for the superstructure.  Projects that include permanent stormwater 
treatment measures shall comply with requirements of Section C.3 of the California 
Municipal Regional Permit. The applicant shall prepare a Stormwater Management Plan 
(SWMP) that includes, at a minimum, exhibit(s) showing drainage areas and location of 
Low Impact Development (LID) treatment measures; project watershed; total project site 
area and total area of land disturbed; total new and/or replaced impervious area; 
treatment measures and hydraulic sizing calculations; a listing of source control and site 
design measures to be implemented at the site; hydromodification management 
measures and calculations, if applicable; NRCS soil type; saturated hydraulic conductivity 
rate(s) at relevant locations or hydrologic soil type (A, B, C or D) and source of 
information; elevation of high seasonal groundwater table; and a brief summary of how 
the project is complying with Provision C.3. Stormwater treatment measures that treat on-
site stormwater runoff shall be located on-site. If stormwater treatment measures need to 
be placed in the public right-of-way, the project shall treat the stormwater runoff from the 
public right-of-way up to the centerline along the project frontage they are installed. The 
O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such control features shall be 
submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify the owner’s 
responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance.  Such O&M 
responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s 
240 of 517

--- page 241 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 17 of 36 
 
Office. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT CLEANING – The applicant of any food service facilities shall 
have any sink or other floor mat, container, and equipment cleaning area, connected to a 
grease interceptor prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer system. The cleaning area 
shall be large enough to clean the largest mat or piece of equipment to be cleaned. The 
cleaning area shall be indoors or in a covered outdoor area; either areas being plumbed to 
the sanitary sewer. Outdoor cleaning areas shall be designed to prevent stormwater run-
on from entering the sanitary sewer and to prevent stormwater run-off from carrying 
pollutants to the site storm drains. Signs shall be posted indicating that all food service 
equipment washing activities shall be conducted in this area. Regular maintenance and 
cleaning of the grease interceptor is required. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show connection to grease interceptors. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to 
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service 
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit 
plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer system and 
shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
241 of 517

--- page 242 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 18 of 36 
 
 
 
61 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 
13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-
lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64).  The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the 
final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for the 
park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee shall be paid prior to the release of the final map for 
recordation and the park impact fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building 
permit. If a project with an approved tentative map is issued a building permit prior to the 
approval of the final map, the applicant shall be subject to the payment of the park impact 
fee only prior to the issuance of the first building superstructure permit. (PARKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 PARKING LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include all required 
off street parking lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking 
dimensions in conformance with City parking standards. Drainage should be directed to 
adjacent landscaping wherever possible. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.   
 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations.  Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of 
way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear 
on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building 
permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application.  Any 
changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee at their sole discretion.  All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted.  
Project specifications shall be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
242 of 517

--- page 243 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 19 of 36 
 
 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a material 
and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are 
damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, 
painted curbs and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be 
thermoplastic.  Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and 
subject to approval by the Director of Public Works or designee.  Any existing painted curb 
or pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, 
sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to 
mark any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(B) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace all sidewalk along the project frontage as 
shown on the approved planning application plans. Sidewalk shall be constructed per City 
Standard Drawings.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(C) CURB RAMPS – The applicant shall construct one (1) curb ramp in accordance with 
Caltrans Standard Plans at the corner of 9th Avenue and South Claremont Street. The 
actual ramp "Case" shall be identified on the plans and shall be approved by the Director 
of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(D) CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb and 
gutter along the project frontage. Curb and gutter shall be constructed per City Standard 
Drawings. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(E) DRIVEWAY APPROACHES – The applicant shall remove and replace two (2) driveway 
approaches per Caltrans Standard Plans as shown on the approved planning application 
plans. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(F) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install two (2) sewer lateral connections from the 
property line to the sewer main located in the street right of way on South Claremont 
Street. The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawings.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
(G) STORM DRAIN - The applicant shall abandon the existing 18-inch storm drainpipe on 
the south east approach of the 9th Avenue and S Claremont Street intersection and install 
a new 18-inch storm drainpipe and connect to the existing upstream curb inlet and 
downstream manhole. The applicant shall install all other storm drain facilities, including 
but not limited to manholes and catch basins, to accommodate new storm drain 
connections and stormwater treatment measures in accordance City Standards 
243 of 517

--- page 244 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 20 of 36 
 
established by the Director of Public or designee. The new storm lines shall be RCP or as 
approved by the City Engineer or designee. Applicant is required to submit plans, drawings 
and hydrology report for review and approval by the Public Works Director or designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(H) STREETLIGHTS AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall furnish and install 13 cobra 
head street lights and necessary infrastructure in accordance with the photometric 
analysis prepared as part of the approved planning application. The Streetlight 
Improvement Plan shall show all electrical conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse 
holders, bus fuses and all other electrical components necessary to construct the 
improvements. The Streetlight Improvement Plan shall include voltage drop calculations 
for all streetlight circuits that will be modified. A maximum of 5% voltage drop is allowed 
on streetlight circuits. The plans shall include circuit maps that show the full extent of all 
existing and proposed streetlight circuits that include streetlights on both sides of the 
street along all project frontages. Circuit maps shall contain all necessary information to 
facilitate review of the voltage drop calculations, including but not limited to length of 
conductor runs, luminaire wattage, conductor sizes, circuit voltage, and location of the 
electrical service connection. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to field verify 
existing streetlight facilities as needed to prepare the Streetlight Improvement Plan. The 
Streetlight Improvement Plan shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee. If an application for change to electrical service is required by PG&E the City 
shall submit the application. The developer shall assist the City by providing all documents 
required as attachments to the application. If any changes to streetlight locations or 
quantities are proposed during the building permit phase, a new photometric analysis 
shall be prepared by the applicant for review and approval by the Director of Public Works 
or designee and the lighting shall be furnished and installed in accordance with the new 
photometric analysis as approved. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to 
the project’s share of the increased amount of sewage generated by the project, as 
established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based 
upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of building permit issuance.  The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on 
January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
244 of 517

--- page 245 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 21 of 36 
 
 
 
65 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall be a 
separate water meter for each development use.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66 SIDEWALK EASEMENT – The owner shall dedicate an easement for sidewalk and 
pedestrian access purposes as delineated in the approved planning application plans. The 
easement shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee, recorded with 
the County Recorder’s Office, and a recorded copy of the document returned to the City 
prior to the release of the building permit for the superstructure. The easement may also 
be dedicated on any associated parcel or subdivision map.  The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show all easements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the construction cost to increase its capacity based upon the 
project’s average projected sanitary flow, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 3.54.080. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid 
prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on the 
fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. Trash 
245 of 517

--- page 246 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 22 of 36 
 
capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources Control 
Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be cleaned 
routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 25’ triangular area of visibility at any 
project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are 
less than 3' in height.  This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility 
facilities.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric, 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the 
size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and 
meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures.  
 
The developer shall underground 420 linear feet of overhead electrical distribution lines 
along the project frontage on South Claremont Street. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing.  Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval.  Developer shall provide 
the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee prior to final design. Any 
utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
246 of 517

--- page 247 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 23 of 36 
 
 
 
74 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure 
building permit.  The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be 
supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
76 ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance 
letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant 
indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach compliance with 
the noise limits listed in Tables N-1 and N-2 of the Noise Element of the General Plan. This 
letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
77 FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR ONSITE PRIVATE LANDSCAPING  – The applicant shall submit a 
cost estimate and financial securities in a form and amount  sufficient to ensure the 
installation of all approved onsite private landscape improvements including all new trees, 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director or his/her designee. The 
Project Planner shall conduct and pass a follow-up inspection in accordance with Section 
27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim the financial securities after all 
landscaping has sustained a Plant Establishment Maintenance Period of three consecutive 
growing season months (March through October). (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
247 of 517

--- page 248 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 24 of 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in 
advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
80 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall comply with Section 23.60 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code for Art in Public Places. (BUILDING/PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
81 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – (This condition applies when there is 2500 sqft 
or more landscaping work performed to the project site) In accordance with the City’s 
Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a 
licensed landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation 
designer shall complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water 
Conservation in Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of 
completion shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and 
approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
83 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this project.  Testing shall occur during construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide 
a third-party testing grid report to the Fire Department subject to the review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
84 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install  the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
248 of 517

--- page 249 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 25 of 36 
 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction 
shall insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
85 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts 
in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – The applicant shall grind and overlay the entire width of 
South Claremont Street and 9th Avenue along the project frontage including the 
intersection with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete and provide deep-lift restoration as 
directed by the Public Works Inspector. If the street abutting the property is classified as 
being in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below prior to final 
restoration, the applicant will be required to reconstruct the street including the base 
course.  Final pavement restoration shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
87 STORMWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall 
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance.  The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and on private property and shall be recorded with 
the County Recorder’s Office.  This agreement shall be executed prior to the first 
occupancy of the building.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
249 of 517

--- page 250 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 26 of 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
88 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Plan has been prepared for this project (477 9th Avenue 
TDM Plan, dated November 2023). The property owner or designee shall submit a written 
letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis with an assessment of compliance 
with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including mode split survey results, 
by the end of every calendar year (December 31st).  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – The property owner or designee 
is required to participate in the Downtown TMA, including annual payment of 
membership dues, when it has been established by the City. The TMA will develop TDM 
measures and make them available to both existing and future development within the 
Downtown area. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
90 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist 
report shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and 
shall assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) 
shall be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP. 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
91 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – The applicant shall enter into a subdivision 
improvement agreement with the City per Gov. Code Section 66462(a) and shall arrange 
to provide security for the public improvements to be completed.  The agreement will be 
forwarded to the City Council for approval with the final map.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
92 ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of archaeological resources 
whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction 
250 of 517

--- page 251 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 27 of 36 
 
activities within 50 feet of the find, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, 
and retain a qualified archaeologist. The archaeologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of 
the find and propose recommendations for continuing construction to protect the find in 
consultation with the appropriate native American tribe and submit a summary of findings 
to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate these recommendations into 
project construction. A final report detailing how these recommendations were met shall 
be provided prior to occupancy. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
93 CULTURAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of human remains whether on-site 
in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all activity within 50 feet of the 
discovery and notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner. The applicant shall also 
immediately notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a determination made as to 
whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the 
cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains and any associated or 
unassociated funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within the 
project site shall comply with applicable State laws. If the remains are determined to be 
Native American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission 
(NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the 
descendants will make recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be 
implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
94 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all 
construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or 
Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the 
discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a 
summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
251 of 517

--- page 252 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 28 of 36 
 
 
 
96 VACANT LOT MAINTENANCE – Following entitlements, the applicant shall establish the 
project site as a vacant lot in accordance with Municipal Code Chapter 7.48, to alleviate 
visual blight and nuisance conditions associated with vacant lots, should existing 
structures remain vacant or construction activities cease for a period of more than 180 
consecutive days. All vacant lots shall be improved and maintained at all times with 
landscaping and fencing; or in accordance with an approved maintenance plan; or by a 
third party through an agreement with the property owner, as approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. Vacant lot maintenance of 
dormant construction sites may include, but is not limited to, provision of permanent 
fencing, landscaping, and ongoing maintenance of weeds, debris, and stockpiling of 
materials. (PLANNING/BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
97 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours 
do not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and 
does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
98 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99 BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS – Prior to the installation or use of 
barricades, fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction, 
the applicant submit plans to the Fire Plan Checker subject to the review and approval of 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
252 of 517

--- page 253 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 29 of 36 
 
 
 
101 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent 
buildings/properties.  (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 905.3.1, 
the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or 
demolition. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
103 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
105 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary 
sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater 
than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months shall obtain an NPDES permit from 
the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. Discharge of 
uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the applicant can 
provide analytical data to support the claim. No discharge to the storm drain shall be 
allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the 
sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and 
shall comply with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
253 of 517

--- page 254 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 30 of 36 
 
 
 
106 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee.  The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be approved by 
the Director of Public Works or designee.  A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, 
and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits.  All material hauling activities 
including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging 
of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant.  All storage and office trailers will be kept off the public right-of-way.  Tracking 
of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed.  Entry and exit from the site will use 
rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method 
of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site.  Any job related dirt and/or debris that 
impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately.  No wash down of dirt into 
storm drains will be allowed.  Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no 
water used, only vacuum).  All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with 
applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval.  Violation of such may be cause for 
suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction: 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
254 of 517

--- page 255 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 31 of 36 
 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee 
finds that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.  
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards. 
255 of 517

--- page 256 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 32 of 36 
 
 
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down 
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.  
 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
CDD Arborist (PA) 
 
 
108 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
109 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
256 of 517

--- page 257 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 33 of 36 
 
 
 
110 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND REPLACEMENT LIGHTING – All outdoor lighting, including any 
replacement lighting, that is not regulated by State or federal law, shall be fully shielded 
with an opaque or translucent cover to avoid glare, and shall be downward directed, such 
that all light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a defusing element, or 
indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the luminaire is projected below the 
horizontal plane, as determined by photometric test or certified by the manufacturer. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to 
ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
113 ROADWAY AND UTILITY EASEMENT – The Applicant acknowledges that the Property is 
burdened by a non-exclusive 40-foot wide roadway and utilities easement that runs 
parallel to the railroad tracks for the length of the Property. At no time shall the 
construction or operation of the proposed project unreasonably interfere with any 
easement holders’ rights. The Applicant shall comply with the terms of the easement 
agreement at all times. (PLANNING/PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
257 of 517

--- page 258 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 34 of 36 
 
 
 
114 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to 
select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
115 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
116 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY – The 
applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety 
communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times 
that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. If the City 
installs radio equipment, applicant shall take reasonable measures to secure and 
safeguard City equipment from theft or vandalism. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of 
producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and 
a color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting 
standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed 
as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from 
off site.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
118 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
258 of 517

--- page 259 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 35 of 36 
 
 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside mixed-use parking garages, 
driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all 
buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount 
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the building 
facing out. 
 
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion.  Cameras 
viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites and/or garages 
shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the sites and/or garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make 
and model of vehicles accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of 
vehicles, and clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
119 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect stormwater treatment devices on private property and 
in the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots 
immediately prior to and once during the storm season. 
 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
259 of 517

--- page 260 ---
PA-2022-047, 477 9TH AVE., SUP + SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________ 
Page 36 of 36 
 
deteriorated.  The fee shall be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established 
by the City Council, in effect at the time. 
 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains 
to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain.  Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works. 
 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PLAN – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be monitored and assessed annually for 
the occupied life of the development. The program shall be recorded with the County.  
The assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, 
including mode split survey results, shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every 
calendar year (December 31st).  
 
 
 
 
 
260 of 517

--- page 261 ---
APPLICATION FOR APPEAL
Date
Filed:_____________________
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
TO:
City Council
Commission ______________________________________
Zoning Administrator
Other:___________________________________
APPELLANT
Name:
Daytime Phone:
Email:
Address:
Street
City
Zip Code
SUBJECT
Project Being Appealed:
Address / Location:
State Reasons for Appeal and Particular Areas of Concern (if an appeal of Planning Applications conditions of approval,
please list each condition appealed and the reason for your appeal):     
Added Comments or Proposal (if any):
Appellant’s Signature
Date
(Attach additional sheets if necessary) 
Please refer to Comprehensive Fee Schedule for appeal filing fees.
Office Use Only
File #: 
Fee: 
Tentative Hearing Date:
■
Planning Commission/City Council
Michelle Maccarra
             
                  
PA22-047 477 9th Ave. Mixed Use Development
477 9th Ave.
32 trees will be cut down for this project--7 of which are heritage trees. This is in direct conflict to the laws San 
Mateo has in place around tree preservation. Please reference Ch. 27.71 landscape for planning Applications, 
27.71.150 Preservation of Existing Trees: (e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. (f) Protection of Existing Trees. 
The majority of these heritage trees are on the perimeter of the building site--near the street/sidewalk or the 
back fence. The site design should make accommodations to preserve these trees and all  of the additional 
trees should be transplanted in Central Park by the builder. The removal of these trees also goes against the 
2030 General Plan--6.1 Tree preservation. Page 16 also includes 2 mitigation measures around protecting
nesting birds and migratory raptors. San Mateo is quickly losing its canopy of old growth trees. Please preserve 
the trees--they can grow in harmony with the new development,if we build around them The trees are good for 
San Mateo and all the people who call it home.
As stated above the removal of the trees conflicts with the General Plan Policy C/OS 6.1: Tree Preservation. 
This conflict represents a significant impact under CEQA and therefore requires the preparation of an EIR. In addition, the 
cumulative impact analysis in the Categorical Exemption analysis does not adequately address the cumulative impact of the 
removal of heritage trees in downtown or the City of San Mateo. There is no quantification of the number of heritage trees 
removed in San Mateo, which means the cumulative impact analysis is inadequate. 
Many heritage and protected trees have been removed in the last few years and this project could represent a significant 
cumulative effect but the analysis needs to be completed. Please identify how many protected tree removal permits have 
been issued in the last 3 years. 
Thank you,
Michelle Maccarra
261 of 517

--- page 262 ---
ATTACHMENT 3 – LOCATION MAP 
PA-2022-047 
477 9TH AVENUE, MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT 
Address: 
477 9th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94402 
Parcel Number: 
033-281-130 
Project Site 
1000 feet
262 of 517

--- page 263 ---
477 9TH AVE
MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
263 of 517

--- page 264 ---
THE PROPOSED PROJECT CONSISTS OF DEMOLITION OF AN
APPROXIMATELY 21,600 SQUARE FOOT, SINGLE-STORY OFFICE
BUILDING AND SURFACE PARKING THAT WAS CONSTRUCTED IN THE
EARLY-1980'S. THE 1.6-ACRE SITE WOULD BE REDEVELOPED WITH 120
RENTAL DWELLING UNITS (80 UNITS ALLOWED BY ZONING AND 40
“BONUS” UNITS AUTHORIZED BY THE DENSITY BONUS LAW)
CONSTRUCTED OVER APPROXIMATELY 27,076 SQUARE FEET OF
OFFICE USES WITHIN A FIVE-STORY, 53'-6"-FOOT TALL BUILDING. THE
PROJECT WOULD ALSO INCLUDE A NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL
AMENITIES AND OPEN SPACES, INCLUDING AN APPROXIMATELY 1,765
SQUARE FOOT FITNESS CENTER FOR RESIDENTS, A 2,639 SQUARE
FOOT LOUNGE AREA, A 760 SQUARE FOOT RESIDENCE “CLUB AREA,”
AS WELL AS A 649 SQUARE FOOT ROOF DECK AND 8,944 SQUARE FOOT
CENTRAL COURTYARD COMMON AREA. THE BUILDING WOULD
INCLUDE A 3,262 SQUARE FOOT LOBBY/LEASING OFFICE AREA. THE
PROJECT WOULD PROVIDE 141 VEHICLE PARKING SPACES IN AN
ABOVE-GROUND GARAGE AND 9 SURFACE PARKING SPACES, FOR A
TOTAL OF 150 VEHICLE PARKING SPACES; AND 132 LONG-TERM
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES IN A SECURE AREA AND 12 SHORT-TERM
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES. PROJECT WILL HAVE 12 TOTAL BMR UNITS.
AP0.01
AP0.02
AP0.03
AP0.04
AP0.05
AP0.06
AP0.07
AP0.08
AP0.11
AP0.12
AP0.13
AP0.14
AP0.15
AP0.20
AP0.30
AP0.31
AP0.32
AP0.33
AP0.34
AP0.35
AP0.36
AP0.37
AP0.38
AP0.39
AP0.40
AP0.42
AP1.00
AP2.01
AP2.02
AP2.03
AP2.04
AP2.05
AP2.06
AP3.00
AP3.01
AP3.10
AP3.20
AP3.21
AP4.0
PROJECT INFORMATION
PROJECT DATA SUMMARY
CODE ANALYSIS
EXISTING CONDITIONS
PERSPECTIVE
PERSPECTIVE
PERSPECTIVE
PERSPECTIVE
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 1
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 2
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 3
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 4
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 5
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
SHADOW STUDIES
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 1
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 2
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 3
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 4
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 5
ALLOWABLE AREA CALCULATIONS
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 1
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 2
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 3
ALLOWABLE OPENING CALCULATIONS
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
SITE PLAN
5
3
PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT SUMMARY
APPLICANT/ OWNER:
THE MARTIN GROUP
1970 BROADWAY SUITE 745
OAKLAND, CA 94612
CONTACT:
CIVIL
SANDIS
636 9TH ST
OAKLAND, CA 94607
CONTACT:
FLOOR 1 - PLAN
STEPHEN SIRI
NATHAN ALLEN
STEPHEN@THEMARTINGROUP.COM 
NALLEN@SANDIS.NET
(415) 429-6044
FLOOR 2 - PLAN
FLOOR 3 - PLAN
ARBORIST:
FLOOR 4 - PLAN
FLOOR 5 - PLAN
ARCHITECT:
HORTSCIENCE | BARTLETT
CONTACT:
DARYA BARAR
BDE ARCHITECTURE
950 HOWARD STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
CONTACT:
ROOF - PLAN
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
MATERIAL BOARD
DBARAR@BARTLETT.COM
JON ENNIS
JENNIS@BDEARCH.COM
(415) 967-6807
BUILDING SECTIONS
WALL SECTIONS
UNIT PLANS
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
GUZZARDO PARTNERSHIP
181 GREENWICH ST
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
CONTACT:
AP4.1
UNIT PLANS
AP4.2
UNIT PLANS
L-1.1 - L-7.1
C-0 - C-8.1
TR0.1 - TR2.0
LANDSCAPE SHEETS
CIVIL SHEETS
MARCO LEI
MLEI@TGP-INC.COM
TRASH MANAGEMENT
4
2
1
SITE MAP
PROJECT TEAM
SHEET INDEX
PROJECT INFORMATION
AP0.01
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
264 of 517

--- page 265 ---
50%
75
PROJECT DATA SUMMARY
AP0.02
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
265 of 517

--- page 266 ---
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
55'-0" TO AVERAGE ROOF HEIGHT
TYPE V-A CONSTRUCTION: FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS PER TABLE 601:
OCCUPANCY GROUPS:
RESIDENTIAL
STORAGE (GARAGE)
ASSEMBLY (REAR YARD)
OFFICE SPACE
STRUCTURAL FRAME
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS
INTERIOR BEARING WALLS
EXTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS & PARTITIONS
INTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS & PARTITIONS
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION (BEAMS & JOISTS)
ROOF CONSTRUCTION (BEAMS & JOISTS)
SHAFT / STAIRWAY ENCLOSURES
1 HR.
1 HR.
1 HR.
SEE BELOW
0 HR.
1 HR.
1 HR.
2 HR.
R-2
S-2
A-3
B
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
R-2
S-2
TYPE VA, FULLY SPINKLERED
TYPE IA, FULLY SPINKLERED
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTERIOR WALLS BASED ON FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE FOR
TYPE I-A, III-A AND V-A CONSTRUCTION AND OCCUPANCY PER TABLE 602:
THE BUILDING SHALL COMPLY WITH THE 2022 CFC SECTION 510 FOR ERRC COVERAGE.
FIRE SEP. DIST.
X < 5
5 ≤ X < 10
10 ≤ X < 30
X ≥ 30
OCCUPANCIES: GROUP A, M, R-2 & S-2
ALLOWABLE GROSS FLOOR AREA / HEIGHTS / CONSTRUCTION TYPES
1 HR.
1 HR.
1 HR.
0 HR.
BASE ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR PER CBC TABLE 503 FOR TYPE I-A:
S-2
R-2
A-3
UNLIMITED S.F.
UNLIMITED S.F.
UNLIMITED S.F.
ACCESSIBILITY
BASE ALLOWABLE HEIGHT & STORIES PER CBC TABLE 503 FOR TYPE I-A:
S-2
R-2
A-3
UNLIMITED S.F.
UNLIMITED S.F.
UNLIMITED S.F.
100% OF UNITS SHALL BE ADAPTABLE, PER CBC 2022 CHAPTER 11A
ALL COMMON USE AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC 2022 CHAPTER 11A
ALL PUBLIC AREAS & OFFICE SPACE SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC 2022 CHAPTER 11B
BASE ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR PER CBC TABLE 503 FOR TYPE V-A:
R-2 
12,000 S.F.
ENERGY
PROPOSED MIXED USE MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND NON- RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WILL BE ALL-ELECTRIC PER
THE CITY’S REACH CODE.
BASE ALLOWABLE HEIGHT & STORIES PER CBC TABLE 503 FOR TYPE V-A:
R-2
R-2
55 FEET / 3 STORIES
60 FEET / 4 STORIES W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS:
3 HOUR HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN TYPE I-A & TYPE V-A REQUIREMENTS PER SECTION 510.2 HORIZONTAL
BUILDING SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
FOR TYPE I-A CONSTRUCTION: FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS PER TABLE 601:
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE & AMENDMENTS (CBC)
2022 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE & AMENDMENTS (CMC)
2022 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE & AMENDMENTS (CPC)
2022 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE & AMENDMENTS (CEC)
2022 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE & AMENDMENTS (CFC)
2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE CHAPTER 11A
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE CHAPTER 11B
2016 NFPA 13
STRUCTURAL FRAME
3-HR
3-HR
3-HR
REDUCE TO 2-HR FOR ROOF SUPPORT
REDUCE TO 2-HR FOR ROOF SUPPORT
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS
INTERIOR BEARING WALLS
INT. NONBEARING WALLS
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION
ROOF CONSTRUCTION
0-HR
2-HR
1 1/2-HR
PROJECT SUMMARY 1
APPLICABLE CODES 2
12" = 1'-0"
12" = 1'-0"
CODE ANALYSIS
AP0.03
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
266 of 517

--- page 267 ---
14
13
12
11
10
6
5
4
3
2
1
11
12
9
3
PROJECT LOCATION
2
7
1
4
8
14
8
6
5
13
10
9
7
SITE CONTEXT 2
SITE MAP 1
12" = 1'-0"
1/4" = 1'-0"
EXISTING CONDITIONS
AP0.04
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
267 of 517

--- page 268 ---
EAST ON 9TH AVE
AP0.05
PERSPECTIVE
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
268 of 517

--- page 269 ---
NORTH ON CLAREMONT AVE
AP0.06
PERSPECTIVE
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
269 of 517

--- page 270 ---
SOUTH ON CLAREMONT ST
AP0.07
PERSPECTIVE
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
270 of 517

--- page 271 ---
NORTH ON RAILROAD
AP0.08
PERSPECTIVE
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
271 of 517

--- page 272 ---
EGRESS
STAIR 3
EXIT DISCHARGE
EXIT DISCHARGE
EXIT DISCHARGE
OCCUPANT LOAD
44
OCCUPANT LOAD
27
OCCUPANT LOAD
28
OCCUPANT LOAD
28
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
8.8"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
5.4"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
5.6"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
5.6"
44 OCC X 
0.2
27 OCC X 0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
28 OCC X 0.2
28 OCC X 0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
13.2"
33 1/2"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
39 1/2"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
33 1/2"
PRIMARY USE
OFFICE 1
44 OCC X 
0.3
AREA
12,024 SF
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
44"
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
B
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
150 NET
1
1
44◆◆ ◆◆
FIRE PUMP
ROOM
27
81
28
28
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
PRIMARY USE
2
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
TRANSFORMER
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
?
3
OFFICE 1
12,024 SF
VAULT
OFFICE PARKING
?
[O
FF
IC
AREA
15,329 SF
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
ELECTRICAL
E
2
FF
IC
E 2
O
[1/
D] 2
4
3
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
S-2
O
5'
-0
"
ROOM 1
BOILER ROOM
OD]
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
?
=
TABLE 1004.5
200 NET
81'-8"
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
73
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ 
◆◆
2
2
1
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
2
PARKING
GARAGE 54
STALLS
3
EXIT DISCHARGE
OCCUPANT LOAD
95
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
95 OCC X 0.2
32" MIN.
19"
1
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
39 1/2"
CONFRENCE
ROOM
EXIT DISCHARGE
TRANSFORMER
VAULT 2
OCCUPANT LOAD
120
32" MIN.
24"
LONG TERM
BIKE STORAGE 3
LONG TERM
BIKE STORAGE 2
2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
120 OCC X 0.2
ELECTRICAL
ROOM 2
1
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
39 1/2"
ACCESSORY USE
MAIL/ PACKAGING
346 SF
AREA
8
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
3
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
R-2
28 RESIDENTIAL
STALLS
BIKE STORAGE
PATH TO MAIN
ENTRANCE - 126'-0"
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
2
- 9
"
9'
11
] =
BE
[D
EXIT DISCHARGE
152
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ 68◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
160
OCCUPANT LOAD
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
152 OCC X 0.2
32" MIN.
30.4"
◆◆
◆◆
FIRE
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
39 1/2"
EQUIPMENT
ROOM
EGRESS PATHS
TO PUBLIC WAY
PRIMARY USE
LOBBY/ LEASING
AREA
803 SF
EGRESS
STAIR 2
160
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL PARKING
10,918 SF
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
15 NET
LOADING AREA
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
32"
54
2
TRASH
160 OCC X 
0.2
EXIT DISCHARGE 
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
S-2
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
48"
OCCUPANT LOAD
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
68 OCC X 0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
68
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 NET
2
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
13.6"
55
2
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
160 OCC X 
0.3
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
33 1/2"
2
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 1
AP0.11
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
272 of 517

--- page 273 ---
EGRESS
STAIR 3
OCCUPANT LOAD
44
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
8.8"
44 OCC X 
0.2
ACCESSORY USE
OFFICE 2
13,468 SF
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
13.2"
AREA
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
B
44 OCC X 
0.3
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
150 GROSS
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
44"
90
2
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
44
2
OFFICE 2
13,468 SF
EGRESS
STAIR 4
OCCUPANT LOAD
44
32" MIN.
8.8"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
44 OCC X 
0.2
◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
13.2"
◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
44 OCC X 
0.3
RESIDENT
PARKING
GARAGE
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
44"
EGRESS PATH
FOR CPET
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENT PARKING GARAGE
31,026 SF
2-HOUR FIRE BARRIER
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
S-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
156
2
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
2
PRIMARY USE
AREA
FITNESS
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
1,133 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
A-3
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
50 GROSS
23
FITNESS
?
?
AREA
?
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
?
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
? GROSS
?
◆◆ 
◆◆
EGRESS
STAIR 1
4'-0"
4' WIDE STAIR
4'-0"
4' WIDE STAIR
ELEV 1
OCCUPANT LOAD
125
32" MIN.
25"
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
125 OCC X 
0.2
EGRESS
STAIR 2
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
OCCUPANT LOAD
77
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
37.5"
LOADING AREA
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
32" MIN.
15.4"
TRASH
77 OCC X 
0.2
125 OCC X 
0.3
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
23.1"
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
30'
48"
0'
60'
TRUE
77 OCC X 
0.3
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 2
AP0.12
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
273 of 517

--- page 274 ---
ACCESSORY USE
TRASH ROOM
MEN'S RESTROOM
AREA
59 SF
AREA
167 SF
ACCESSORY USE
IDF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
AREA
40 SF
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
1
1
1
1
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
1
2
1
1
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
2-HR HORIZONTAL EXIT
3
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA - WEST
18,248 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
92
2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆
◆
◆ ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
RESIDENTIAL
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆1
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆EX
◆
◆
ITIN
◆G◆AR
◆E◆A◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆
2
RESIDENTIAL
◆
◆
◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
EAST
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆
EXITING AREA -
WEST
◆
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA EAST
19,757 SF
◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
99
2
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
3
OUTDOOR USE
AREA
COURTYARD
◆
◆
◆
◆
3,067 SF
X
F
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
A-3
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
15 GROSS
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
205
2
◆32" x 60"
◆
◆
◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
COURTYARD
◆
◆
2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
102
103
R-2 ACCESSORY =1,601SF+
59SF+40SF+22SF / 38,837 SF =
4.4%<10% MAX. MEETS CBC
CODE SECTION 508.2.3
ACCESSORY USE
AREA
LOUNGE
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
1,587 SF
46
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
1
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
15 GROSS
106
2
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
1
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
?
53
◆◆◆
2
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
EGRESS
STAIR 1
4'-0"
4' WIDE STAIR
4'-0"
OCCUPANT LOAD
160
32" MIN.
32"
4' WIDE STAIR
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
160 OCC X 
0.2
2-HR FIRE WALL
EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
160 OCC X 
0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
STAIR 2
160
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
48"
ACCESSORY USE
AREA
IDF
WOMEN'S RESTROOM
182 SF
22 SF
R-2 ACC.
AREA
32" MIN.
32"
160 OCC X 
0.3
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 
SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
300 GROSS
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
30'
48"
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
48"
1
2
1
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
0'
60'
TRUE
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
1
160 OCC X 
0.3
3
1
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 3
AP0.13
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
274 of 517

--- page 275 ---
ACCESSORY USE
TRASH ROOM
AREA
92 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
1
1
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
1
2-HR HORIZONTAL EXIT
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA - WEST
17,193 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
86
2
◆
◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆
◆
◆ ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆
◆◆◆◆1
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆ 
◆◆◆◆◆ ◆ 
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
2
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL
EXITING AREA -
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆
EXITING AREA -
WEST
◆
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA - EAST
20,185 SF
◆◆◆◆◆◆
EAST
◆◆◆◆ ◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
101
2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
ASSUMED
PROPERTY LINE
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
3
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
30" X 48"
X
44
R F ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
EGRESS
STAIR 1
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
OCCUPANT LOAD
35
32" MIN.
7"
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
35 OCC X 
0.2
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
10.5"
2-HR FIRE WALL
35 OCC X 
0.3
EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
80 OCC X 
0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
STAIR 2
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
80
32" MIN.
16"
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
24"
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
80 OCC X 
0.3
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 4
AP0.14
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
275 of 517

--- page 276 ---
ACCESSORY USE
TRASH ROOM
AREA
97 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
300 GROSS
1
1
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
1
2-HR HORIZONTAL EXIT
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA - WEST
17,204 SF
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
87
2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆◆ ◆
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆
◆
◆ ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆1
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆ 
◆◆◆◆◆ ◆ 
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆◆◆
◆
2
RESIDENTIAL
EXITING AREA -
WEST
RESIDENTIAL
EXITING AREA -
◆
◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆
PRIMARY USE
AREA
RESIDENTIAL EXITING AREA - EAST
19,792 SF
EAST
◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
200 GROSS
99
2
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
ASSUMED
PROPERTY LINE
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
3
R-2 ACCESSORY =597SF+
59SF+40SF+22SF / 36,982 SF =
1.9%<10% MAX. MEETS CBC
CODE SECTION 508.2.3
ACCESSORY USE
AREA
CLUB ROOM
597 SF
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
R-2 ACC.
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
15 NET
.
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
40
1
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
1
40
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
OUTDOOR USE
AREA
ROOF DECK
477 SF
30" X 48"
44
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION SECTION 302.1
A-3
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
TABLE 1004.5
15 NET
.
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
32
1
◆◆ ◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆◆
◆ ◆◆ 
◆◆
NUMBER OF EXITS REQUIRED
NUMBER OF EXITS PROVIDED
◆◆◆◆
1
◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
EGRESS
STAIR 1
2-HR FIRE WALL
OCCUPANT LOAD
64
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
64 OCC X 
0.2
32" MIN.
12.8"
EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH REQUIRED
92 OCC X 
0.2
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
STAIR 2
92
EXIT DOOR CLEAR WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
19.2"
32" MIN.
18.4"
64 OCC X 
0.3
33 1/2"
44" MIN.
27.6"
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
30'
48"
EXIT STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
0'
60'
TRUE
92 OCC X 
0.3
EXIT STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
48"
EGRESS DIAGRAM - FLOOR 5
AP0.15
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
276 of 517

--- page 277 ---
SHEET NOTES
A - LED WALL MOUNTED SCONCE LIGHT
WALL-MOUNTED LIGHT AT GROUND LEVEL
EXTERIORS
S. CLAREMONT ST
CUBE ARCHITECTURAL 5", LED 49W
DC-WD05-S840S-BK
BY WAC LIGHTING
B
A
C
C
A
A
A
A
A2
A2
A
A
A
A
A
7
A
7
A2 - LED WALL MOUNTED SCONCE LIGHT
WALL-MOUNTED LIGHT AT GROUND LEVEL
EXTERIOR MAIN ENTRIES
C
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
A
◆◆◆◆◆◆
A
A
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆
SLEEPLESS, LED 19W
WS-W43015-BK/AB
BY WAC LIGHTING
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆
A
A
C
B - PROPOSED STREET LIGHT POLE
CITY STANDARD LIGHT
A
A
A
◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
A
A
A2
2020-CH-48W COBRA HEAD
LUMINAIRE
◆◆
A2
TS
C
C - PROPOSED STREET LIGHT POLE
CITY STANDARD LIGHT
◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
A
A
A
A
A
A
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
2020-CH-95W COBRA HEAD
LUMINAIRE
RAILROAD
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
AP0.20
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
277 of 517

--- page 278 ---
4
3
2
1
SPRING EQUINOX - 3/21
AUTUMN EQUINOX - 9/21
SUMMER SOLSTICE - 6/21
WINTER SOLSTICE - 12/21
TRUE
SHADOW STUDIES
AP0.30
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
278 of 517

--- page 279 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
1
AP3.20
STAIR 3
ELEV 3
TRNFRMR
ELECT
OFFICE 1
STAIR 4
BOILER RM
PROPOSED
OFFICE
RESTROOM
REFUSE TERM
BIKE PARKING
EXCLUDED IN FAR
TRASH RM.
PARKING
GARAGE 54
STALLS
2
AP3.21
ELEVATOR AND STAIR
CORES COUNTED ON
FLOOR 1 ONLY
PLAZA
2
AP3.20
TRNFRMR
UP
LONG TERM
BIKE STORAGE 2
ELECT
28 RESIDENTIAL
STALLS
1
AP3.21
LOBBY/
LEASING/ MAIL
ELEV 1
FIRE EQUIP STAIR 1
STAIR 2 ELEV. 2
INCLUDED IN FAR
OFFICE
13,588 SF
3,262 SF
29,753 SF
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
9 SURFACE STALLS
LOADING AREA
LOBBY/ LEASING
GARAGE
TRASH
0'
30'
60'
RAILROAD
TRUE
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 1
AP0.31
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
279 of 517

--- page 280 ---
1
AP3.20
STAIR 3
OFFICE
ELEV 3
STAIR 4
PARKING
GARAGE 87
STALLS
2
PROPOSED
OFFICE
RESTROOM
AP3.21
ELEVATOR AND STAIR
CORES COUNTED ON
FLOOR 1 ONLY
2
AP3.20
DN
FITNESS
1
AP3.21
LOBBY
ELEV. 2
ELEV 1
STAIR 2
STORAGE STAIR 1
INCLUDED IN FAR
OFFICE
13,313 SF
1,765 SF
31,606 SF
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
FITNESS
GARAGE
60'
TRASH
0'
30'
TRUE
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 2
AP0.32
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
280 of 517

--- page 281 ---
1
AP3.20
2
AP3.21
ELEVATOR AND STAIR
CORES COUNTED ON
FLOOR 1 ONLY
2
AP3.20
COURTYARD
1
AP3.21
LOUNGE
ELEV 1 
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
INCLUDED IN FAR
RESIDENTIAL
35,261 SF
2,639 SF
8,944 SF
?
LOUNGE
COURTYARD
60'
0'
30'
TRUE
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 3
AP0.33
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
281 of 517

--- page 282 ---
1
AP3.20
2
AP3.21
ELEVATOR AND STAIR
CORES COUNTED ON
FLOOR 1 ONLY
2
AP3.20
1
AP3.21
STAIR 4 STAIR 4
STAIR 2
INCLUDED IN FAR
RESIDENTIAL
ELEV. 2
38,213 SF
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 4
AP0.34
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
282 of 517

--- page 283 ---
1
AP3.20
2
AP3.21
ELEVATOR AND STAIR
CORES COUNTED ON
FLOOR 1 ONLY
2
AP3.20
1
AP3.21
ROOF DECK
STAIR 4 STAIR 4
STAIR 2
INCLUDED IN FAR
RESIDENTIAL
ELEV. 2
36,813 SF
760 SF
CLUB ROOM
ROOF DECK
60'
649 SF
0'
30'
TRUE
FAR DIAGRAM - FLOOR 5
AP0.35
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
283 of 517

--- page 284 ---
ALLOWABLE AREA CALCULATIONS
AP0.36
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
284 of 517

--- page 285 ---
133
S. CLAREMONT ST
7
7
◆◆ ◆◆
25'-0"
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆  ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
LEVEL 1 - NON-SEPARATED
FLOOR AREA ALLOWED
TYPE I-A
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
UNLIMITED
46,516 SF
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆  ◆◆ ◆◆ 
◆◆
TOTAL FLOOR AREA PROPOSED
ADJACENT
BLDG
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
TS
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
UP
◆◆
◆◆
133
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
CALTRAIN RAILROAD TRACKS
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 1
AP0.37
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
285 of 517

--- page 286 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
LEVEL 2
TYPE I-A
UNLIMITED
46,810 SF
FLOOR AREA ALLOWED
TOTAL FLOOR AREA PROPOSED
◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
ADJACENT
BLDG
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆
◆◆
◆◆
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
UPDN
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
CALTRAIN RAILROAD TRACKS
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 2
AP0.38
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
286 of 517

--- page 287 ---
FIRE COMPARTMENT - 1
TYPE V-A
36,000 SF
17,284 SF
FLOOR AREA ALLOWED
S. CLAREMONT ST
TOTAL FLOOR AREA PROPOSED
FIRE COMPARTMENT - 2
TYPE V-A
36,000 SF
21,553 SF
FLOOR AREA ALLOWED
TOTAL FLOOR AREA PROPOSED
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆
◆ ◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆◆◆◆◆
◆◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
FC- 2
FC- 1
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
ASSUMED
PROPERTY LINE
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
ASSUMED
EXTENSION OF
HORIZONTAL EXIT
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
ASSUMED
PROPERTY LINE
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆◆ ◆◆ ◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆
DN
UP
UP
◆◆◆
◆
◆
◆ ◆◆
◆◆
◆◆ 
◆◆ ◆◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
◆
RAILROAD
00'
30'
60'
TRUE
ALLOWABLE AREA - FLOOR 3
AP0.39
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
287 of 517

--- page 288 ---
20' TO LESS THAN 25' = NO LIMIT (UP, S)
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL = 5,669 SF
2
ALLOWABLE = UNLIMITED
TOTAL OPENING = 1,935 SF (34%)
1,935 SF = COMPLIES
AP3.20
23'-0" F.S.D.
NO LIMIT
PER CBC TABLE 705.8
T.O.PLATE
53' - 6"
FLOOR 5
44' - 4"
FLOOR 4
34' - 2"
FLOOR 3
24' - 0"
25'-0"
FLOOR 2
12' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
25'-0" F.S.D.
NO LIMIT
PER CBC TABLE 705.8
ADJACENT
BLDG
25' TO LESS THAN 30' = NO LIMIT (UP, S)
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL = 4,313 SF
ALLOWABLE = UNLIMITED
TOTAL OPENING = 980 SF (23%)
980 SF = COMPLIES
S CLAREMONT AVE
UP
ADJ. BLDG
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AR
TRASH
PARKING
2
1
ELEVATION - WEST
FLOOR 1- PARTIAL WEST SITE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1/64" = 1'-0"
ALLOWABLE OPENING CALCULATIONS
AP0.40
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
288 of 517

--- page 289 ---
10,486
10,486
20,079
22,155
DN
DN
INCLUDED IN OPEN SPACE
ROOF DECK
649 SF
DECK 782 SF
S. CLAREMONT ST
OPEN SPACE - FLOOR 5 3
7
7
1" = 60'-0"
DRIVWEID-3T0UPH'-
AFRCOARCDEIASTLSR,UHCAMKMINOM.EURT1
HR0EI'GAGDWEIRDTSUE,R/1N8CA'LRAOHSUSNI
G-DH2IRFOORADDEAWBADY-BEA+NSEDEXT,
RA
DRIVWEID-3T0UHP'-
FAROCARCDEIATSLRSU,HCAKMMINOM.EURT1
HR0EI'GAGDWERIDTSUE,R/1N8CAL'RAOSHUSNI
G-DH2IRFOORADDEAWBADY-BEA+NESDXE,T
RA
PLAZA
COURTYARD
INCLUDED IN OPEN SPACE
PLAZA
1,770 SF
640 SF
UP
DOG PARK
PLANTING
UPN
UP
1,628 SF
F52
T5
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
PEDESTRIAN 
6,448 SF
CIRCULATION
LOADING AREA
INCLUDED IN OPEN SPACE
COURTYARD 
8,944 SF
DOG PARK
TRASH
DECK 512 SF
OPEN PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING
NOT PART OF THE OPEN SPACE CALCULATION
AT-GRADE TOTAL = 10,486 SF
RAILROAD
PAVED SURFACE FOR DRIVEWAY AND SURFACE PARKING
= 11,758 SF
2
1
OPEN SPACE - FLOOR 3
PLANNING - OPEN SPACE - FLOOR 1
1" = 60'-0"
PER SMMC27.71.130, 10% LANDSCAPE REQUIRED = 1,176 SF
PROVIDED = 1,176 SF
TRUE
1" = 60'-0"
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
AP0.42
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
289 of 517

--- page 290 ---
SHEET NOTES
1
PROPERTY LINE
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
3
3
13
S. CLAREMONT ST
12
2
11
1
5
13
10
4
7
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
6
7
5
11
7
288'-4 5/8"
7
2
7
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
25'-0"
(E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
10
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
2
1
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
(N) PG&E #7 VAULT
13
ADJACENT
BLDG
4
4'-8"
1
2
250'-1 7/8"
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
RAILROAD
0'
40'
80'
4
TRUE
1
SITE PLAN
AP1.00
1" = 40' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
290 of 517

--- page 291 ---
21
1
S. CLAREMONT ST
12
2
AP3.20
11
1
5
21
10
7
4
SHEET NOTES
11
6
7
5
7
288'-4 5/8"
15
1
PROPERTY LINE
VEHICLE
ACCESS
7
WATER PUMP RM
15
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
7
STAIR 3
18.49'
9
RAMP
RAMP
2
RAMP
FIRE PUMP RM
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
OFFICE 1
11,437 SF
7
4
20'-6"
TRANSFORMER
ROOM 1
19.60'
ELEV CONTR RM
OFFICE TRASH
PROPOSED
OFFICE
RESTROOM
STAIR 4
ELECTRICAL
ROOM
RESIDENTIAL
TRASH
BOILER RM
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
1
18
Garage
mechanical shaft
19.60'
2
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
GARAGE
GARAGE ACCESS
GATE
21.50
3%
OFFICE
LOBBY
19.60'
DN
1
4 OFFICE
BIKES
29 OFFICE
STALLS
14
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
PLAZA
RESTR.
DOG
WASH
13
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
CONFERENCE
19.90'
2
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
LONG TERM BIKE
STORAGE1
MPOE
LONG TERM BIKE
STORAGE 2
AP3.20
TRANSFORMER
ROOM 2
112 RESI.
BIKES
7.5%
15%
RAMP
MAIL
UP
14
16
4
14 EV CHARGER
16 RESI.
BIKES
27'-7 1/4"
14
4'-8"
15 CANOPY
ELECTRICAL
ROOM
2% Max.
PACK RM
LEASING
OFFICE
13
15
DN
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
5'-0"
BREAK
RM
LEASING
OFFICE
LVL 1
PARKING
20.90'
GARAGE
63 STALLS
3%
20.90'
25 RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENT
ACCESS GATE
LEASING/LOBBY
DN
ELEV CONTR RM
STALLS
22.30'
24' - 0"
3'-0".
3'-0"
ELEV. 1
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
1
7.5%
2
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
DN
15
18
FIRE EQUIP 
STAIR 1
22.68'
15
GARAGE ACCESS
PAKING SUMMARY - LEVEL 1
STAIR 2
ELEV. 2
GATE
9 OFFICE/GUEST
SURFACE STALLS
250'-1 7/8"
VEHICLE
ACCESS
OFFICE PARKING
RESIDENTIAL
38 (29 GARAGE + 9 SURFACE)
25
8
CONCRETE
STRESS
9
GUEST
GUEST
GUEST
ADA VAN
GUEST
GU
GUEST
PAD
LOADING AREA
TOTAL LEVEL 1 :
63
TRASH
DOG PARK
RAILROAD
4
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
1
FLOOR 1 - PLAN
AP2.01
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
291 of 517

--- page 292 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
1
SHEET NOTES
AP3.20
1
PROPERTY LINE
1
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
STAIR 3
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
OFFICE 2
12,643 SF
STAIR 4
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
1
3'-0"
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
2
PROPOSED
OFFICE
RESTROOM
GARAGE
AP3.21
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
LVL 2
2
PARKING
87 STALLS
14
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
AP3.20
24'-0"
15%
RAMP
7.5%
ELEC. PANELS
DN
MAINT. ROOM
14 EV CHARGER
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
15 CANOPY
14
FITNESS
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
5'-2"
1
5'-0"
AP3.21
3'-0".
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
1
YOGA
ELEV. CONTROL
RM
RESTROOM 
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
250'-1 7/8"
PAKING SUMMARY - LEVEL 2
RESIDENTIAL
TENDEM
85
2
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TOTAL LEVEL 2 :
87
TRASH
RAILROAD
1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FLOOR 2 - PLAN
AP2.02
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
292 of 517

--- page 293 ---
1
S. CLAREMONT ST
AP3.20
SHEET NOTES
1
PROPERTY LINE
289'-10 3/4"
1
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
17
17
17
S1.0-a
S1.0-a
S1.0-b
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
B1.0
B1.3
B1.2
A3.5
A3.4
S1.0-b
B4.0
B2.0
TRASH ROOM
Garage shaft
ELEV.
SHAFT
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
A1.0
1
A2.0-a
B3.0
A4.0
A2.0
?
B1.1
A3.6
B1.4
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
2
A2.0
A2.0-a
S2.0
S1.0
A2.0
AP3.21
23' - 0"
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
A3.3
2
A3.1
10 SF Garage intake air
A3.1
A1.2
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
AP3.20
S1.0
14 EV CHARGER
S2.0-a
5'-6".
A1.1
15 CANOPY
17
A1.0
B6.0
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
A3.0
A2.2
A2.2
1
68'-11 5/8"
AP3.21
B5.0
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
LOUNGE
A2.1
A2.0
1
250'-1 7/8"
RAILROAD
1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FLOOR 3 - PLAN
AP2.03
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
293 of 517

--- page 294 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
SHEET NOTES
1
1
PROPERTY LINE
AP3.20
1
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
289'-10 3/4"
17
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
B2.1-a
S1.0-a
S1.0-b
B1.0
B1.3
B1.2
A3.5
A3.4
S1.0-b
S1.0-a
B4.0-a
TRASH ROOM
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
A1.0
1
A2.0-a
B3.0
A4.0
A2.0
B1.1-a
A3.6a
B1.4a
17
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
2
A2.0
A2.0-a
S2.0
S1.0
A2.0
AP3.21
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
A3.3
A3.1-a
A3.1-a
2
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
AP3.20
S1.0
A1.0
5'-6".
TYP.
S2.0-a
14 EV CHARGER
A1.2-a
A1.1-a
15 CANOPY
17
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
A3.2
A2.2
A2.2
1
AP3.21
B6.0-a
17
DOUBLE HEIGHT
AREA COUNTED
IN BLDG GROSS
B1.5
B5.0
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
A3.1-a
A2.1
A2.0
1
250'-1 7/8"
RAILROAD
1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FLOOR 4 - PLAN
AP2.04
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
294 of 517

--- page 295 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
SHEET NOTES
1
1
PROPERTY LINE
AP3.20
1
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
289'-10 3/4"
17
17
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
B2.0-b
S1.0-a
S1.0-c
B1.0-a
B1.3-a
B1.2-a
A3.5-a
A3.4-a
S1.0-c
S1.0-a
B4.0-a
TRASH ROOM
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
A1.0-a
1
B3.0-a
A4.0
A2.0-b
A2.0
B1.1-a
A3.6a
B1.4a
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
2
A2.0
A2.0-b
17 
S2.0
A2.0
AP3.21
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
A3.3
A3.1-a
A3.1-a
2
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
AP3.20
S1.0-d
A1.0-a
5'-6".
TYP.
14 EV CHARGER
S2.0-b
A1.2-a
A1.1-a
15 CANOPY
24'-10 5/8"
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
CLUB
1
A2.2
A2.2
1
AP3.21
B6.0-b
17
B1.5
B1.1-a
A3.1-a
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
A2.1
A2.0
ROOF DECK
250'-1 7/8"
RAILROAD
1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FLOOR 5 - PLAN
AP2.05
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
295 of 517

--- page 296 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
SOLAR AREA CALCS:
1
SHEET NOTES
ROOF AREA: 37,895 SF.
PROVIDED SOLAR PANELS AREA: 11,700 SF
AP3.20
1
PROPERTY LINE
1
(E) STREET LIGHT
(E) FIRE HYDRANT
(E) TREE, S.L.D.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
(N) STREET LIGHT
(N) FIRE HYDRANT
(N) TREE, S.L.D.
19
IN/OUT
IN/OUT
IN/OUT
IN/O
UT
FAN
FAN
FAN
FA
N
TRASH LOADING ZONE
(N) VEHICULAR DRIVEWAY
56x56
1
10 (E) ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
POLE TO REMAIN
2
AP3.21
11 (E) ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE
POLE TO UNDERGROUND
SOLAR PANELS
12 (N) WATER UTILITY CONNECTION
2
13 PUBLIC SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING
SPACES
AP3.20
14 EV CHARGER
15 CANOPY
16 126 MAILBOXES (14/SQUARE)
17 BMR AFFORDABLE UNITS
18 GARAGE GATE
SOLAR PANELS
1
19
AP3.21
20
19 ROOF TOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
20 ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
21 (N) PG&E #7 VAULT
20
1
ROOF ACCESS
HATCH
RAILROAD
1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
ROOF - PLAN
AP2.06
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
296 of 517

--- page 297 ---
SHEET NOTES
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND
CAST STONE
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
JULIETTE BALCONY, BOLT-ON, HOT-DIP GALV, PTD
RAILING, HOT-DIP GALV. PTD ARCH BRONZE
METAL AWNING, NON-RAIN THRU
3
14
14
14
6
4
1
12
11
14
14 
13 14
3
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
54'-6"
ROOF
(BLDG HEIGHT) 53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
VINYL NAIL-FIN WINDOW FIN ARCH BRONZE
STOREFRONT FIN ARCH BRONZE
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
SPANISH TILE ARCH. POTENTIAL ART ELEMENT
GARAGE ACCESS
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
9
7
12'-0"
. BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2", CAST METAL, SIM.
. SLOPED MANSARD ROOF, CONCRETE S-TILE
. FOAM TRIM, 3" MIN DEPTH, PLASTER FIN.
. TILE "FAUX" ROOF VENT
FLOOR 2
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
0"
FLOOR 1
2
5
10 16
5
8
7
10
16
2
5
16
2
2
. RECESSED VINYL WINDOWS
ELEVATION - NORTH - CLAREMONT ST
. GARAGE OPENING
1" = 30'-0"
. BUILDING EXTERIOR LIGHT
. SPANISH TILE GARAGE ELEMENT, COLOR SELECTION TBD
3
4
1
13 
12
6
11
3
14 14
14
6
3
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
T.O.P @Club
54'-6"
ROOF
(BLDG HEIGHT) 53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
0"
FLOOR 1
10
7
8
16
5
16
5
2
7
2
16
0'
30'
60'
1
ELEVATION - EAST - 9TH AVE
1" = 30'-0"
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
AP3.00
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
297 of 517

--- page 298 ---
SHEET NOTES
60'-0"
3
3
1
6
11
1
4
1
T.O. HIGH ROOF
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND
CAST STONE
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
54'-6"
ROOF
(BLDG HEIGHT) 53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
JULIETTE BALCONY, BOLT-ON, HOT-DIP GALV, PTD
RAILING, HOT-DIP GALV. PTD ARCH BRONZE
METAL AWNING, NON-RAIN THRU
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
VINYL NAIL-FIN WINDOW FIN ARCH BRONZE
STOREFRONT FIN ARCH BRONZE
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
SPANISH TILE ARCH. POTENTIAL ART ELEMENT
GARAGE ACCESS
0"
9
FLOOR 1
. BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2", CAST METAL, SIM.
. SLOPED MANSARD ROOF, CONCRETE S-TILE
. FOAM TRIM, 3" MIN DEPTH, PLASTER FIN.
. TILE "FAUX" ROOF VENT
10
11
12
13
14
17
5
16
15
16
10
9
17
5
2
ELEVATION - SOUTH
1" = 30'-0"
. RECESSED VINYL WINDOWS
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
3
1
4
6
11
12
1
15 . GARAGE OPENING
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
. BUILDING EXTERIOR LIGHT
16
17
54'-6"
ROOF
(BLDG HEIGHT)53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
. SPANISH TILE GARAGE ELEMENT, COLOR SELECTION TBD
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
0"
FLOOR 1
17
16 15 10
9
16
17
1
ELEVATION - WEST
1" = 30'-0"
0'
30'
60'
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
AP3.01
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
298 of 517

--- page 299 ---
STOREFRONT
FIN ARCH BRONZE
METAL AWNING
NON-RAIN THRU
RAILING - HOT DIP GALV.
PAINTED ARCHITECTURAL BRONZE
CAST STONE
CONCRETE SEALED
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT
'CLASSIC BRONZE' OR SIM.
PAINT ON METAL WORK & STUCCO
DRAGON BREATH - BM 1547
CAST STONE
CONCRETE SEALED
CONCRETE ROOF TILE
S-SHAPE
VPI VINYL WINDOWS
'ARCHITECTURAL BRONZE'
PAINT
DARK BROWN
PAINT
SHORELINE - BM 1471
CEMENT PLASTER
SAMPLE FOR TEXTURE ONLY
SPANISH TILE, ART ELEMENT
COLOR SELECTION TBD
STOREFRONT & METALWORK TO MATCH
MATERIAL BOARD
AP3.10
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
299 of 517

--- page 300 ---
MECH. EQUIP.
WALKING PAD
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
54'-6"
SOLAR ZONE
ROOF
53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
A3.3
A3.3
A3.3
A3.1
A3.1
A3.1
A3.1
A3.1
A3.1
S1.0
S1.0
S1.0
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
COURTYARD
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
OFFICE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
7.5%
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
15%
LOBBY/
LEASING/ MAIL
7.5%
0"
FLOOR 1
10'-2 1/8"
10'-0"
(BLDG HEIGHT)
LONG TERM BIKE
STORAGE 1
LONG TERM BIKE
STORAGE 1
ELECT TRNFRMR 2
3
AP3.20
BUILDING SECTION - LONGITUDINAL 2
SECTION AT PARKING RAMP 3
1" = 30'-0"
1" = 30'-0"
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
MECH. EQUIP.
WALKING PAD
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
SOLAR READY
ZONE
54'-6"
ROOF
(BLDG HEIGHT) 53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
B1.5
B1.1
B1.3
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
B1.5
B1.1
B1.1
B1.3
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
LOUNGE
B1.3
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
OFFICE
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
GARAGE
OFFICE
0"
FLOOR 1
2
1
BUILDING SECTION - CROSS
1" = 30'-0"
0'
30'
60'
BUILDING SECTIONS
AP3.20
1" = 30' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
300 of 517

--- page 301 ---
TOWER ROOF FRAMING
ROOFING MEMBRANE
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
60'-0"
T.O. HIGH ROOF
59'-4"
59'-4"
T.O. PARAPET
T.O. PARAPET
INSULATION
54'-6"
ROOF
SLOPEDROOF
T.O.P @Club 54'-6"
ROOF
CLUB ROOF FRAME
53'-6"
53'-6"
T.O.PLATE
T.O.PLATE
B3.0-a
CLUB
44'-4"
44'-4"
FLOOR 5
FLOOR 5
B3.0
B5.0
34'-2"
34'-2"
FLOOR 4
FLOOR 4
B3.0
B5.0
24'-0"
24'-0"
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
OFFICE 2
12'-0"
12'-0"
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
2
0"
0"
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
1
1
WALL SECTION 2 2
WALL SECTION 1
1/8" = 1'-0"
1/8" = 1'-0"
0'
8'
16'
WALL SECTIONS
AP3.21
1/8" = 1' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
301 of 517

--- page 302 ---
17'-0"
26'-11 3/4"
23'-2"
PER CBC 1205.1
ROOMAREA: 141 SF
REQUIRED NATURAL LIGHT:
0.08 X 141 SF = 11.28 SF
PROVIDED LIGHT:
WINDOWS = 28.56 SF
COMPLIES
UNIT PLAN - S2.0
UNIT A3.1
0'-1 3/4"
UNIT A2.0
25'-2"
PER CBC 1205.1
ROOMAREA: 218 SF
REQUIRED NATURAL LIGHT:
0.08 X 218 SF = 17.44 SF
PROVIDED LIGHT:
WINDOWS = 30.00 SF
COMPLIES
ADJOINNG WALL AREA: 8'-7" X9'-0" = 77.25 SF
MIN. REQUIREDOPENING
O.50 X77.25 SF = 38.63 SF
PROVIDED OPENING: 5'-3" X9'-0" = 47.25 SF
COMPLIES
UNIT S1.0
0'
8'
16'
UNIT A1.0
UNIT A3.0
UNIT PLANS
AP4.0
1/8" = 1' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
302 of 517

--- page 303 ---
23'-0"
32'-2"
UNIT B3.0
UNIT B2.0
UNIT B1.0
0'
8'
16'
UNIT PLANS
AP4.1
1/8" = 1' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
303 of 517

--- page 304 ---
32'-2"
32'-2"
35'-5"
DN
UP
UP
18'-0"
35'-5"
UNIT B6.0
UNIT B5.0
UNIT B4.0
0'
8'
16'
UNIT PLANS
AP4.2
1/8" = 1' - 0"
477 9TH AVE
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
304 of 517

--- page 305 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST

}

Alaa

To

a ae a Se

CLUB ROOM
(2ND FLOOR SHOWN)

= THE
— pal GUZZARDO
: PARTNERSHIPinc.

Landscape Architects Land Planners

477 9TH AVE

ey]

PLANTER ZONE:
ACCENT PAVING BAND,
4X6’ TREE GRATES Wi STREET
TREES, STREET LIGHTS, STREET
FURNITURE

CONCRETE PAVING

(DOG PARK AREA: |
| ARTIFICIAL TURF

0

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

ACCENT PAVING BAND,
4X6 TREE GRATES Wi STREET
TREES, STREET LIGHTS,

= 8: THROUGH ZONE:
[CONCRETE PAVING

| OFFICE AND LEASING PLAZA;
~ ACCENT PAVING

+ (1) EXISTING OAK TREE TO BE
PRESERVED WITHIN

NEW
PLANTING AREA WI SEAT /
BENCH SURROUND
+ SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING

(10 BIKE PARKING SPACES),
TYPICAL DIMENSION: 3° ON

North

15 30 60

ILLUSTRATIVE LANDSCAPE PLAN L-1 1

JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

305 of 517


--- page 306 ---
$, CLAREMONT ST

SECTION 1
scale 1" = 10'-0"

S. CLAREMONT ST

SECTION 2
scale 1" = 10'-0"

—7 THE
= ) — a GUZZARDO
— PARTNERSHIPic.

Landscape Architects « Land Planners

NEW STREET TREE

IN TREE GRATE

MOTORCYCLE
PARKING EXISTING OAK TREE

BLDG

BLDG

NEW STREET TREE

SECTION 3
scale 1" = 10'-0"

BLDG

SECTION 4
scale 1" = 10'-0"

LANDSCAPE SECTIONS L-1 a
477 9TH AVE

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect

306 of 517

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

JUNE 23, 2023


--- page 307 ---
PODIUM
+ ROOF
SITE
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
LANDSCAPE INSPIRATION IMAGERY L-1.3
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
JUNE 23, 2023
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
307 of 517

--- page 308 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
CITY STANDARD PEDESTRIAN
CONCRETE SIDEWALK, TYP.
CITY STANDARD TREE GRATE,
TYP.
CITY STANDARD STREET LIGHT,
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CITY STANDARD PEDESTRIAN
ACCENT PAVING, TYP.
ACCENT PLANTER POTS, TYP.
CITY STANDARD PEDESTRIAN
ACCENT PAVING, TYP.
PEDESTRIAN ACCENT PAVING ,
TYP.
Model: Urban Accessories - OT - Title 24
Dimension: 4' x 4'
Material: Standard Cast Iron
Color: Powdercoat RAL 6004 (Black)
Note: Customized to provide two 4" holes
for bubbler access, tree stakes, and
uplighting.
Model: Yard Art Capsule Planter CAPL-SL
Size: 28" dia x 21.5" tall
Color: Aluminum Linen White
CITY STANDARD PEDESTRIAN
CONCRETE SIDEWALK, TYP.
2ND FLOOR
COURTYARD
CITY STANDARD TREE GRATE,
TYP.
(2) BIKE RACK, TYP.
(4 SPACES)
PROPERTY LINE
PEDESTRIAN ACCENT PAVING,
TYP.
PEDESTRIAN CONCRETE
SIDEWALK TO MATCH CITY
STANDARD (BEYOND PROPERTY
LINE TO FACE OF BLDG), TYP.
ACCENT SEAT WALL W/ SKATE /
SLEEP DETERRENTS.
Medium broom finish.
*
ACCENT PLANTER POTS, TYP.
SCULPTURE ELEMENT WITHIN
PLANTING AREA (TBD.)
(4) BIKE RACK, TYP.
(8 SPACES)
PROPERTY LINE
Model: Landscape Forms 35 Collection
Loop Bike Rack
Color: Matte Black
Mounting: Surface mount.
CLUB ROOM
(2ND FLOOR SHOWN)
DOG PARK AREA:
- ARTIFICIAL TURF
- FENCE ENCLOSURE W/ GATES
- PET WASTE STATION
North
Renewal Date
06-30-23
0
15
30
60
Date
06.02.23
SITE LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN L-2.1
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
477 9TH AVE
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
308 of 517

--- page 309 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN
3 LAG MUS
36" BOX
NEW STREET TREE
IN TREE GRATE
3 LAG MUS
36" BOX
NEW STREET TREE
IN TREE GRATE
12
25
21
EXISTING PLANTER AREA EDGE;
UNDERSTORY PLANTING TO
REMAIN
NC
NC
DIA
B
A
A
4 HAN HEP
36" BOX
A
PROPERTY
LINE
NEW STREET TREE
IN TREE GRATE
EXISTING TREES TO REMAIN
ON ADJACENT PROPERTY
PROPERTY LINE
10 ARB MAR
24" BOX
19
LOM
11
5
ABG
2ND FLOOR
COURTYARD
SR
4
15
8
13
4
13
SR
LOM
DB
MCP
SR
LOM
A
5 CIT MEY
24" BOX
A
A
95
9
DB
9
LOM
LOM
5
1 OLE EUR
36" BOX
B
B
DB
8
5
B
3
B
DB
B
MCP
B
2
PR
2
5
SR
13
SR
SR
57
PEL
2
9
LAV
PR
2
LOM
4
9
PR
ABG
2
2
LOM
7
12
SR
SR
MCP
ABR
21
2
EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN
LAV
SR
15
PEL
3
B
B
B
B
PR
16
5TH FLOOR
ROOF DECK
1 HAN HEP
36" BOX
NEW STREET TREE
IN TREE GRATE
3
DIT
PR
2
9
2 OLE EUR
36" BOX
PR
8
MCP
A
A
36
DB
DIT
DN
62
4
Podium & Roof Deck Planter Pots
Planting Legend
SAU
DB
Type A - (1) SR & (3) LBE each pot
Type B - (1) ASP each pot
16
LOM
24
LOM
5
LOM
4 ACE RUB
36" BOX
LOADING AREA
6
TRASH
DB
North
79
Renewal Date
BER
EXISTING TREES TO REMAIN
ON ADJACENT CALTRANS
PROPERTY
0
15
30
60
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
4 TRI LAU
24" BOX
SITE PLANTING PLAN L-3.1
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
JUNE 23, 2023
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
309 of 517

--- page 310 ---
PLANTING NOTES
PLANT PALETTE
1.
2.
All work shall be performed by persons familiar with planting work and under
supervisions of a qualified planting foreman.
to the completion of the project at the Owner's request and with the Owner's
concurrence.
TREES
KEY
SIZE
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
COMMENTS
standard
multi
WUCOLS
Medium
Low
Plant material locations shown are diagrammatic and may be subject to
change in the field by the Landscape Architect before the maintenance period
begins.
18. 
Contractor to verify drainage of all tree planting pits. See Planting
Specifications. Install drainage well per specifications and Tree Planting
Detail(s) if the tree planting pit does not drain at a rate to meet the
specifications.
ACE RUB 
24"/36"box Acer rubrum 'October Glory'
'October Glory' Red Maple
Marina Strawberry Tree
Water Gum Tree
ARB MAR 
24"box
Arbutus 'Marina'
Tristania laurina
TRI LAU
24"box
36"box
24"box
standard
Medium
Medium
Low
3.
4.
All trees are to be staked as shown in the staking diagrams.
PLA ACE
LAG NAT
Platanus a. 'Columbia'
Lagerstroemia i 'Natchez'
Olea europaea 'Wilsonii'
Handroanthus heptaphyllus
Strelitzia nicolai
London Plane Tree
19. 
Contractor shall remove all plant and bar code labels from all installed plants
and landscape materials prior to arranging a site visit by the Landscape
Architect.
All tree stakes shall be cut 6" above tree ties after stakes have been installed
to the depth indicated in the staking diagrams. Single stake all conifers per
tree staking diagram.
Natchez Crepe Myrtle
Fruitless Olive Tree
Pink Trumpet Tree
Giant Bird of Paradise
multi
OLE EUR 
specimen
HAN HEP 
36"box
STR REG 
24"box
multi
Very Low
Medium
Low
20. 
Versicell Drainage panel or approved equal is to be installed in all
on-structure planters and all pre-cast planters/pots as shown in the drawings.
Material available through: Tournesol, CA 800-542-2282. All drainage panels
shall be completely covered with filter fabric as shown in the drawings and
per manufacturer's specifications.
standard
multi
5.
Plant locations are to be adjusted in the field as necessary to screen utilities
but not to block windows nor impede access. The Landscape Architect
reserves the right to make minor adjustments in tree locations after planting
at no cost to the Owner. All planting located adjacent to signs shall be field
adjusted so as not to interfere with visibility of the signs.
SHRUBS
KEY
ABG
ACA
ASP
BER
CAL
DB
SIZE
5 gal
BOTANICAL NAME
Agave 'Blue Glow'
COMMON NAME
Blue Glow Agave
Little River Wattle
Myers Asparagus
Creeping Barberry
Rock Purslance
SPACING
-
WUCOLS
21. 
All tree rootballs shall be irrigated by water jet during the sixty (60) day
maintenance period established by specifications. This irrigation shall occur
each time normal irrigation is scheduled.
6.
7.
The Landscape Architect reserves the right to make substitutions, additions,
and deletions in the planting scheme as felt necessary while work is in
progress. Such changes are to be accompanied by equitable adjustments in
the contract price if/when necessary and subject to the Owner's approval.
L
L
5 gal
5 gal
5 gal
5 gal
5 gal
5 gal
5 gal
15 gal
5 gal
Acacia 'Cousin Itt'
36" oc
24" oc
36" oc
24" oc
36" oc
60" oc
Asparagus d. 'Meyeri'
Berberis aquifolium repens
Caladrina spectabilis
Dietes bicolor 'Orange Drop'
Myrica californica
M
L
22. 
The Landscape Contractor shall, as a part of this bid, provide for a planting
allowance for the amount of $3,000.000 (Three Thousand Dollars) to be used
for supplying and installing additional plant material as directed by the
Landscape Architect and approved by the Owner in writing. The unused
portion of the alllowance shall be returned to the Owner at the beginning of
the maintenance period.
L
All planting areas, including planter pots, except lawns and storm-water
treatment zones (as defined by the civil engineer), shall be top-dressed with a
3" layer of recycled wood mulch, "Muir Woods Brown Mulch" by WM
Earthcare (877.963.2784; wmearthcare.com) or approved equal. Submit
sample to Landscape Architect for review prior to ordering. Hold all mulch six
(6) inches from all plants where mulch is applied over the rootball.
Fortnight Lily
L
MCA
California Coffeeberry
Rainbow Queen Flax
Birds of Paradise
Southern Sword Fern
L
PR
Phormium 'Rainbow Queen'
Strelitzia reginae
36" O.C.
36" O.C.
36" O.C.
L
SRE
NC
M
M
Nephrolepis cordifolia
23. 
The contractor is required to submit plant quantities and unit prices for all
plant materials as a part of the bid.
8.
All street trees to be installed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the City of San Mateo, CA. Contractor to contact the city
arborist to confirm plant type, plant size (at installation), installation detailing
and locations prior to proceeding with installation of street trees. Contractor is
to obtain street tree planting permit from the city, if a permit is required, prior
to installation of street trees. Contractor is to consult with the Landscape
Architect during this process.
24. 
Assume 15 gallon plant for any un-labelled or un-sized tree; 5 gallon plant for
any un-labelled or un-sized shrub; and 1 gallon @ 18" o.c. for any un-labelled
ground cover.
SUB SHRUBS, GRASSES, FERNS
KEY
CEL
SIZE
5 gal
5 gal
1 gal
1 gal
1 gal
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
Large Cape Rush
SPACING
42" O.C.
36" O.C.
30" O.C.
24" O.C.
24" O.C.
WUCOLS
25. 
Assume 5 gallon plant size at 36" o.c. for all planting beds not provided with
planting callouts or planting information.
Chondropetalum elephantium
L
L
L
L
L
MCP
LOM
PEL
Muhlenbergia capillaris 'White Cloud'
Lomandra 'Platinum Beauty'
Pennisetum a. 'Llittle Bunny'
Sesleria autumnalis
White Muhly Grass
Variegated Dwarf Mat Rush
Little Bunny Fountain Grass
Autumn Moor Grass
26. 
The planting areas on grade shall be ripped to a depth of 8" to reduce
compaction. The native subgrade soil shall be treated with 100 lbs of
gypsum/1000 sf and leached to improve drainage and reduce the soil
interface barrier. Contractor shall coordinate this work with other trades.
This is subject to the final recommendations of the soils test (see below) and
review by the Landscape Architect and the Owner.
9.
Plants shall be installed to anticipate settlement. See Tree and Shrub
Planting Details.
SAU
10.
All trees noted with 'deep root' and those planted within 5'-0" of concrete
paving, curbs, and walls shall have deep root barriers installed per
manufacturer's specifications. See specifications and details for materials,
depth of material, and location of installation.
GROUNDCOVERS & VINES
KEY
LBE
SIZE
1 gal
1 gal
BOTANICAL NAME
Lotus berthelotii
COMMON NAME
Parrot's Beak
SPACING
WUCOLS
-
-
L
L
27. 
All planting areas on grade are to receive Vision Comp OMRI Listed Compost
by Vision Recycling, (510) 429-1300, or approved equal, at the rate of 6 cubic
yards/1000 square feet, evenly tilled 6" deep into the soil to finish grade. All
planting areas shall have 6-20-20 Commercial Fertilizer at 25lbs/1000 square
feet evenly distributed into the soil. This is subject to the final
SMA
Senecio mandraliscae
Blue Chalk Sticks
11.
12.
The Landscape Contractor shall arrange with a nursery to secure plant
material noted on the drawings and have those plants available for review by
the Owner and Landscape Architect within thirty (30) days of award of
contract. The Contractor shall purchase the material and have it segregated
and grown for the job upon approval of the plant material. The deposit
necessary for such contract growing is to be born by the Contractor.
PLANTING DESIGN NOTES:
·
The above plants have been selected as being representative of the overall planting design intent, but does not
preclude use of other appropriate planter material. The landscape shall incorporate plants that are tolerant of the
challenging conditions of the site and that are appropriate to the local climate.
recommendations and review of the soils test (see below) by the Landscape
Architect and the Owner.
·
·
All trees shall be a minimum of 24" box size. All shrubs and vines shall be a minimum of 5 gallon size. All
groundcover shall be a minimum of 1 gallon size.
All planted areas are to be watered with an approved automatic underground irrigation system. The system shall
be designed to make efficient use of water through conservation techniques, and be in compliance with the
State's and Water District's rules and regulations for water service and water use.
The project has been designed to make efficient use of water through the use
of drought tolerant plant materials. Deep rooting shall be encouraged by
deep watering plant material as a part of normal landscape maintenance.
The irrigation for all planting shall be limited to the amount required to
maintain adequate plant health and growth. Water usage should be
decreased as plants mature and become established. The irrigation
controllers shall be adjusted as necessary to reflect changes in weather and
plant requirements.
28. 
Planting pits are to be backfilled with a mixture of 50% native soil and 50%
amended native soil per note #5 above.
29. 
The General Contractor is to provide an agricultural suitability analysis for
representative samples of on-site rough graded soil and any imported topsoil.
Recommendations for amendments contained in this analysis are to be
carried out before planting occurs. Such changes are to be accompanied by
equitable adjustments in the contract price if/when necessary. See
specifications for testing procedure.
·
Water use value based on WUCOLS (Water Use Classification of Landscape Species) IV, 2014 edition.
13.
14.
The Landscape Contractor shall verify the location of underground utilities
and bring any conflicts with plant material locations to the attention of the
Landscape Architect for a decision before proceeding with the work. Any
utilities shown on the Landscape drawings are for reference and coordination
purposes only. See Civil Drawings.
30. 
For built in place planters on structure, use imported regular weight soil mix.
31. 
For planter pots, use lightweight soil mix / see written specifications.
32. 
See civil drawings for imported storm water treatment area soil. Contractor to
provide agricultural suitability analysis of the soil with amendment
recommendations to the Landscape Architect for review.
The design intent of the planting plan is to establish an immediate and
attractive mature landscape appearance. Future plant growth will necessitate
trimming, shaping and, in some cases, removal of trees and shrubs as an
on-going maintenance procedure.
15. 
Install all plants per plan locations and per patterns shown on the plans.
Install all shrubs to ensure that anticipated, maintained plant size is at least
2'-0" from the face of building(s) unless shown otherwise on the plans. Refer
to Plant Spacing Diagram for plant masses indicated in a diagrammatic
manner on the plans. Refer to Plant Spacing Diagram for spacing of formal
hedge rows.
16. 
Contractor to provide one (1) Reference Planting Area for review by
Landscape Architect prior to installation of the project planting. The
Reference Planting Area shall consist of a representative portion of the site of
not less than 900 (nine hundred) square feet. Contractor to set out plants, in
containers, in the locations and patterns shown on the plans, for field review
by the Landscape Architect. The Reference Planting Area will be used as a
guide for the remaining plant installation.
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
17.
The Maintenance Period(s) shall be for 60 (sixty) days. Portions of the
installed landscape of a project may be placed on a maintenance period prior
PLANTING NOTES AND LEGENDS L-3.2
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
477 9TH AVE
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
310 of 517

--- page 311 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
2ND FLOOR
PROPERTY LINE
COURTYARD
WATER USE LEGEND
WUCOLS Low
CLUB ROOM
(2ND FLOOR SHOWN)
3,102 sq ft (total 3 levels)
WUCOLS Moderate
WUCOLS High
880 sq ft (total 3 levels)
DN
0 sq ft
78 sq ft
0 sq ft
Water Features
Special Landscape Area
LOADING AREA
TRASH
North
Renewal Date
06-30-23
0
15
30
60
Date
06.02.23
IRRIGATION HYDROZONE PLAN L-4.1
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
477 9TH AVE
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
311 of 517

--- page 312 ---
PRELIMINARY IRRIGATION SYSTEM LEGEND
IRRIGATION BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE - FEBCO-825Y-BV
IRRIGATION SUPPLYLINE- 2" AND LARGER -1120/CLASS 315 PVC PIPE
IRRIGATION SUPPLYLINE-1.5" & SMALLER -1120/SCHEDULE 40 PVC PIPE
-18" COVER
-18" COVER
-12" COVER
IRRIGATION SPRINKERLINE
ELECTICAL CONDUIT
SLEEVING
-1120/CLASS 200 PVC PIPE
-1120/SCHEDULE 40 ELECTRICAL CONDUIT -24" COVER
-1120/SCHEDULE 40 PVC PIPE 
-24" COVER
E
E
E
E
E
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
IRRIGATION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-4.2
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
477 9TH AVE
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
312 of 517

--- page 313 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
UP
10
11
12
13
Tree Protection Fencing, Typ.
16
15
Tree Protection Fencing, Typ.
9
8
PROPERTY LINE
7
14
29
28
38
30
32
6
37
39
27
Tree Protection
Fencing, Typ.
36
40
33
26
5
31
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
17
25
24
23
34
35
41
42
20
TREE LEGEND:
4
22
21
18
EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN
UP
EXISTING TREE TO BE REMOVED
TREE PROTECTION FENCING
UP
19
LOADING AREA
1
TRASH
North
Renewal Date
06-30-23
0
15
30
60
Date
06.02.23
48
49
47
46
3
45
2
44
43
PROPERTY LINE
Tree Protection Fencing, Typ.
TREE DISPOSITION PLAN L-5.1
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
477 9TH AVE
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
313 of 517

--- page 314 ---
i
TREE PROTECTION/DISPOSITION NOTES
1.
See Tree Disposition Plan for trees to be removed and to remain.
Renewal Date
06-30-23
2.
Refer to Arborist Report page 8, 9, 10 and Landscape sheets L5.6, L5.7, L-5.17 & L-5.18 for Tree
protection requirement.
Date
06.02.23
3.
Refer to Arborist Report for other tree disposition notes and recommendations.
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.2
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
314 of 517

--- page 315 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.3
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
315 of 517

--- page 316 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.4
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
316 of 517

--- page 317 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.5
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
317 of 517

--- page 318 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.6
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
318 of 517

--- page 319 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.7
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
319 of 517

--- page 320 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.8
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
320 of 517

--- page 321 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.9
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
321 of 517

--- page 322 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.10
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
322 of 517

--- page 323 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.11
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
323 of 517

--- page 324 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.12
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
324 of 517

--- page 325 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.13
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
325 of 517

--- page 326 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.14
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
326 of 517

--- page 327 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.15
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
327 of 517

--- page 328 ---
i
Renewal Date
06-30-23
Date
06.02.23
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS L-5.16
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ 
Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
477 9TH AVE
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
328 of 517

--- page 329 ---
S. CLAREMONT ST
2ND FLOOR
COURTYARD
27'-3"
PROPERTY LINE
OUTDOOR SEATING/LOUNGE
AREA (PODIUM): 570 SQ FT
OUTDOOR SEATING/STUDY
AREA (PODIUM): 395 SQ FT
11'-6"
25'-6"
OUTDOOR LOUNGE / GAMES
AREA (PODIUM): 635 SQ FT
29'-2"
28'-9"
19'-10"
CLUB ROOM
(2ND FLOOR SHOWN)
A
A
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
(PODIUM): 411 SQ FT
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
(PODIUM): 422 SQ FT
DN
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA
(ROOF): 270 SQ FT
DOG PARK / RUN AREA: 588 SQ FT
LOADING AREA
TRASH
North
Renewal Date
06-30-23
0
15
30
60
Date
06.02.23
LANDSCAPE PARK CREDITS AREAS L-6.1
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
JUNE 23, 2023
THE
ꢀꢁꢂꢂARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
477 9TH AVE
Lanꢃꢄꢅaꢆe Arꢅꢇiteꢅtꢄ Lanꢃ Plannerꢄ
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
329 of 517

--- page 330 ---
SURVEY NOTE

SURVEY DELIVERABLE SHEET 1S SHOWN AT 1°=60' INSTEAD

OF THE ISSUED SCALE OF 1°=20'

— =

ARCHITECTURE

BOUNDARY & EASEMENTS NOTE

“HE BOUNDARY UNES SHO HIRECH FOR LOT 1, A CELMEATED UPON THAT

‘CERTAM WAP ENITTLED "PARCEL WAP 124 TWN OAKS PLAZA’ FLED FOR

RECORD MME OFF CE CF IME RECCRIER OF THE COUNTY OF Sill WA'ED, SLATE
PARE, NAPS, A

al
i

SITE BENCHMARK

Svc ea VAG WAL SHO WE PUT WH OF

LEV CN 2018 FRET MVD 88

PHOTOGRAMMETRIC FLIGHT NOTES:

LSPA AMERY a5 CAPTURED CN WOVEMEER 78. 2071 UAIING 4 DE PHANTOW 4 PRO VEO
2 AN a) HAL TH YN eR

Sa vars Ce 9 AR acy HAW Om BL NAA 8

HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CONTROL NOTE

HOMZONTN. & VERTOAL COMTROL RAS BASED ON A CPS SLAVEY USNC CHEE STK MEMOS CORMECTED TC
3 (Es Some ATE SEER Ea i CLF SI ML COMES MIR,

fe

hy Me | ed
sm Hefei (oareie sant a i
8
i

REVERSION TO ACREAGE NOTE:

THE EXISTING SITE WAS PREVIOUSLY SUBDIVIDED FOR CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES.
THERE WERE 13 CONDOMINIUMS CREATED (0.R. 82028173) AND TERMINATED IN

2022 (0.R. 2022-020871). THIS PROJECT WILL SUBMIT A REVERSION TO
ACREAGE MAP TO REMOVE THE CONDOMINIUMS FROM THE PARCEL.

Ne SRS A “PN AS SEND) RAIN EDIE

We 2800's ESTARUGED BY THE FOND wy
SLIMY THO FO.AO OPER f° BON *

Ae mo oe Fu FON STOD CENRER PH BOON ot PASC A Paes

a SEH ACARD SLOCKNSE PIT" “D ws CONROE,

EI
;
:
:

UNDERGROUND UTILITY NOTE

Se ITS UEDA, SS W/O OUR S Ua URERADND VRID OF StH Ot 5S,
nik cickawov wl

a
z
a
J
5

Ment Stat} AS ICM A

1 Sn Ga CY Mc

ABBREVIATIONS

ene Fock ” = MEA O8NN
we = Fagen FE NI
cus Unt ue = HACC D wa
ae f= Beara me
Eee oF Peicwt ‘
Cov-WH = COMMIOCATINS W
ee a cu COMMUNICATIONS PLLSC)
cue = COKRET
FOE AL TPE / HOOAT AS (NOD wn Ohvtwar
0 ~ TRAN MET
e ~ BDSE OF Pa
oe ALELTRIAL PLR
foe ~ NL AOARNANT Came CHO
i] ~ FRE HORAN
A FLOW
me Mom Sant
" Foxct
way WAN Nek GUAT
ow aS VALE
or OU NE WOH
us = Fos en
‘a AN Wa & -ftueer
Oran RET o ~ BLDNG
ORAM RET OW 2 s aetna
SANITARY SENER MaIWORE 3ico | — SNTARY Sam CLEAN
‘SANITARY SENES CAEMOUT bd ~ SATAY SRR URE
Tone 0 oy
(TTF METER / B08 3 ~ Toe OF ce
Toecd = TOP OF GLAS AT CTOs BABY
20 104 yon mien
wir ae 4 - are tn
Re roma we = ATR Vat
" ~ TR ME
cas ae
COMMA IONS MANOR
COMMAS WE)
(trae WA / ALO
vert 88
MASOGSAPE RLECRIC UT
EECTROLE WOH WAST 4
OLRLE KLECTROLER WH AST APE
NT POE
iy we WO
50
Per LON
TE WH DRL, SOE 65 NOCATED

{A EY i FEES A MN ET A MM

No rw aia ner

SURVEYORS STATEMENT

JS Me CHRECTL REPRE SNE) WCE BY ME 0 UNS
DARCON Bt CONFORMANCE WH TC REQUIREMENTS OF TMK PROTESONAL

Ns

un yan

n” = ¢
7s,
xe rer)
Bas Je
WPPRCASINISIET

 COnIFY S DerneD
AN MROFESIINS

BOUNDARY & TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY

Uno SaDEO"S AT AT Re REMIT Fe MART ot” ws, Zt

NO LSOTED BY SECRON 47106 OF NE Busnes
CTR (PA

C-0

477 9TH AVE

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

330 of 517


--- page 331 ---
PROTECT EX. OVERHEAD
ELECTRIC_POLE TO REMAIN

Se

PLJ 1d

& re ww a a0
TINCH= 40 FT
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET I LEGEND
q DEMOLISH AND REMOVE AC PAVING AND ANY
aLECTRC POLE ——— REMOVE EX OVERHEAD INLETS TO RENAN NY Sa se ee Ee
REMOVE AF ah CAT on Lee Pou ; Ww D-] BASE ROCK IF APPROVED BY GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER
EX. GAS) SERVICE " — wie \ —
PGE SF6 ote FOS at cl DEMOLISH AND REMOVE CONCRETE INCLUDING ANY
Gi ei L x Ne vs v v sv ASSOCIATED BASE ROCK AND REBAR, STABILIZE THE
a Ne EXISTING SUBGRADE, DEMOLISHED MATERIAL MAY BE
USED AS BASE ROCK IF APPROVED BY THE

REMOVE-
EX,

A

ELEC. SERVICE,

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.

n#
aa

A.

yo

v a ‘ CLEAR AND GRUB EXISTING LANDSCAPE AREA SO NO
ORGANICS ARE STILL PRESENT.

REMOVE
EX, RAISED

v

oe
er!
N

&
vA

‘&S

SS
v7

Z

ne 646-0 E EU:

Vv Vv
v~, “4 DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EXISTING BUILDING, SEE
vE ly) \y oP + ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR EXTENT OF BUILDING
4 \ 4 qj DEMOLITION. STABILIZE THE EXISTING SUBGRADE.
lV AL Vv
4 a DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER,
g S Y 4-10-17 INCLUDING ANY ASSOCIATED REBAR OR BASE ROCK.
Yio v SAWCUT WITH NEAT, CLEAN EDGE.

REMOVE EXISTING WALL OR FENCE INCLUDING

VIN
r nN : a ASSOCIATED FOOTINGS. RETURN FENCE TO OWNER.
Vv ~ Vv
vo” DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EX. UTILITY LINE. BACKFILL
| | iN a i ad EMPTY TRENCH WITH APPROVED FILL PER GEOTECHNICAL

REPORT.

ae \
\ ye Aaa

\

/ /

( + > Ne ea:
A

WM MMM

( \ )
A < a RW , wi tts |: x DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EX. UTLITY STRUCTURE
"4 { \ =
xt a () Osu ‘yp parae.y DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EX. STREET LIGHT AND
viv a wk ey # md FOUNDATION. STREET LIGHT POLE AND LUMINAIRE
any { \e ( oe SHALL BE SALVAGED AND RETURNED TO THE CITY'S
r.! aa) { ) . CORPORATION YARD.
wP { PROTECT EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN. SEE LANDSCAPE
A PLANS AND ARBORIST'S REPORT FOR TREE PROTECTION
DETAILS.
DEMOLITION NOTES
y THE OVERALL INTENT IS TO DEMOLISH ALL EX.

BUILDINGS AND EX. PAVING WITHIN THE SITE LIMITS AS
SHOWN. DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EX. UTILITIES SERVING
EX. BULIDINGS

DEMOLITION PLAN C-1

SCALE: 1"=40'

477 9TH AVE

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

331 of 517


--- page 332 ---
317’ i.
AD

SOUTH CLAREMONT-STREET

mm ae ee ee ee ee eee ee ee
<5 6.5" PROPOSED : —

yet] = AERIAL FIRE ACCESS NOTE: ACCESS FROM
: SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET JUST BEYOND 530’ |
y 20’ " " ACCESS. BUILDING CANNOT BE MOVED TOWARDS proposen *
12" ROAD DUE STO MANDATORY SETBACKS. SIDEWALK
.| «|. | OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES PARALLEL Bl NT WIDTH
I LONG SOUTH CLAREMONT AS VARIES 5.5'-7.0'
:
| X20 WIDE ACCESS ROAD =
; —
|| (LESS THAN 150’ LONG) > 430°
Mite
| |} qy i. —
yt AERIAL FIRE ACCESS PROVIDED
al (WITHIN 15°-30" OF BUILDING) ¢
A LONG 9TH AVE. SIDE F
| 4 + FRONTAGE
rel C-0105.3)
| al —
7 |
|
! 2 ACCESS ROAD
! (LES: 150’ LONG)
EeeaaEeaEaEaEpapap\)ay)OHOHHoQLL —L Lex
—> > |_|
x £ oe

EX. 40’ ROADWAY
AND UTILITY
EASEMENT

NEXT EX. HYDRANT
50’ ACROSS RR TRACKS

Lf Ld

re wa at a
{INCH = 40 FT
LEGEND N
vy EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT TO REMAIN
NS
PIV @ PROPOSED FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
&. PROPOSED POST INDICATOR VALVE
4 = > FIRE ACCESS ROUTE
ERR ERE ©=| AERIAL FIRE ACCESS

—

FIRE ACCESS PLAN

FIRE LANE STRIPING PER CITY OF SAN MATEO FIRE
DEPARTMENT GUIDELINES

HYDRANT SPACING ALONG FIRE ACCESS ROAD (CFC
C103.1)

DISTANCE FROM FIRE ACCESS TO FURTHEST POINT
ON EXTERIOR OF FIRST STORY (CFC 503.1.1)

SCALE: 1"=40' C-2

477 9TH AVE

=

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

332 of 517


--- page 333 ---
10 2007 MATGHLE
C=P 19.57'\-\FL 19.384 SOUTH C EM TREET
Be ig & & C 18.28%
ING
4675 565° 6 3
To 273 oe y KA
PLDI TG 17M! \: \ Has had — conoor// fisted N MATCH EX.
P 20% EASEMENT 19.07 7 18.49 ot TC 17.942
{ Ms ran Q a FF 19.60 0 0 0 it
ww (eb Ll | Ae ee
P 21.90 ; Ad a : a ae gen eT
MATCH EX fi 3 + : 2 ma
oe se ae
FG 22.744 I |p 2100 i TD, RIM FF 19.60 _ {9 9) j g
18" | — ei TC 18674
2 q l = ca Eee
TC 22.85 t 5 P 7 Uy
P 2235 | 3 | a Re)
; i ? | g — 5 e& &
ia e {| =a DR WATCH EX ST
| * = c.i21.90 A G8 HPT BP p=
canoor ; 21.80 relat FF 20.90 Feld | =P 22.39 BR
W |e 2, uv lV c-20.22
MATCH EX J . 83 Te. S > \ | lh sane ER
Te 23.754 | MT 4 y = S F : Te 22.024
14 Le t<— ff
MATCH EX. ‘ “| ET i ~> a) 2—— 5
, iA = oe. is Noel & - ——— 71 I] MATCH EX.
TC 24.25 y ae 3 C=P 2187 =
MATCH C=P 22.00 7)\ MATCH EX,
Fo 24S PANO! 2 oy Ex 40 ROADW 5 wae a, 1S aon FG 24 40E
FG 25.25% UTWUTY EASEMENT DVENSIONS SHOWN ARE TYPICAL
VALLEY GUTTER BUILDING FACE VALLEY GUTTER BUILDING FACE
DRIVE AISLE GARAGE RAMP GARAGE FLOO! DRIVE AISLE GARAGE SLOPE
20% 41% 20% 115%
= 19% :
A-A DRIVEWAY RAMP PROFILE B-B DRIVEWAY RAMP PROFILE
a0 Pas V0 TRENCH DRAIN Se ee

1B at 4v Bt
{INCH = 40 FT

PROPERTY LINE “

SAWCUT LINE

LEGEND

DIRECTION OF STEEP SLOPE
FLOW LINE

GRADE BREAK

CONTOURS

AC PAVEMENT

PERVIOUS PAVEMENT

CONCRETE SIDEWALK

LANDSCAPING (SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS)

SHEET NOTES

CURB & GUTTER ALONG DRIVE ADJACENT TO BUILDING

VERTICAL CURB ALONG DRIVE ADJACENT TO PERIMETER LANDSCAPING
PEDESTRIAN CURB RAMP PER CALTRANS STANDARDS

GARAGE ENTRY WTH VALLEY GUTTER

DRIVEWAY APPROACH WITH STOP SIGN AND STOP PAVEMENT MARKING

SIDEWALK, LANDSCAPING, AND STREET LIGHTS ALONG CITY STREETS

OLOLOEO TO IOTS)

SIGHT TRIANGLES (25° AT INTERSECTION AND 10’ AT DRIVEWAYS) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SMMC 27.84.050

PEDESTRIAN GUARDRAIL LESS THAN 36” HIGH.

ABBREVIATIONS PRELIMINARY EARTHWORK
TOTAL CUT «4800: CU YD

C ~ CONCRETE TOTAL FL «100s

EX ~ EXISTING

NET EARTHWORK 4,700 CU YD (CUT / EXCESS)

*DEPTHS OF CUT EXPECTED TO APPROXIMATELY
6° BELOW FINISH GRADE. THIS ASSUMES AN

FF — FINISH FLOOR
FG — FINISH GRADE

FL — FLOW LINE APPROXIMATE SLAB THICKNESS OF 12”.
G = GROUND EXCAVATION MAY BE LOWER AT BUILDING
P — PAVEMENT SONGS.
TC — TOP OF CURB

GRADING PLAN _ scate: 1"=40 C-3

477 9TH AVE

= & =

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

333 of 517


--- page 334 ---
Ss

—— pw ——_
—. s5s ——_.
— s5 ——
— — ——_
—— CMN ——

— = —

SD

7
SOUTH CLAREMQNT STREET

6.5"
PROPOSED
SIDEWALK
~ Ah PROPOSED
EASEMENT SIDEWALK
[oj EASEMENT woTH

VARIES 5,5'-7:0"

FIRE WATER LINE
DOWESTIC WATER LINE

EX. 40° ROADWAY

ed i 1!

WET UTILITY NOTES

@

®®® © © @© © © ©OO®OO@©®D ©O8O© © © © © ©OO©

CONNECT TO EXISTING WATER SYSTEM. ASSUMED 6-INCH HOT TAP AND VALVE
4” DOMESTIC WATER PIPING
6” FIRE WATER PIPING

BRANCHES FOR DOMESTIC, RETAIL, AND IRRIGATION WATER SERVICES FOR THE
PROJECT CONSTRUCT VALVES ON EACH BRANCH.

DOMESTIC WATER SERVICE AND BUILDING POINT OF CONNECTION. 4” LATERAL AND
METER. BACKFLOW PREVENTER INSIDE WATER UTILTY ROOM.

RETAIL WATER SERVICE AND BULIDING POINT OF CONNECTION. 2” LATERAL AND
METER. BACKFLOW PREVENTER INSIDE WATER UTILITY ROOM.

IRRIGATION WATER SERVICE AND BULIDING POINT OF CONNECTION. 2” LATERAL AND
METER, BACKFLOW PREVENTER INSIDE WATER UTILTY ROOM.

FIRE WATER SERVICE AND BULIDING POINT OF CONNECTION. 6” LATERAL, CHECK
VALVE, AND PIV. BACKFLOW PREVENTER INSIDE FIRE UTILTY ROOM.

FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION FOR BULIDING SPRINKLER SERVICE.
EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT

SEWER CONNECTION TO MAIN PER CITY STANDARD DETAIL 3-1-101. CONSTRUCT
CLEANOUT AT PROPERTY LINE AND BUILDING FACE.

STORM DRAIN PIPING TO CONVEY RUNOFF TO BMP
STORMWATER BMP

PROPOSED CATCH BASIN AND PIPING TO DIVERT AND BYPASS OFF-SITE RUN-OFF
OUTSIDE OF FRONTAGE THROUGH STORM DRAIN PIPES TO CITY OUTFALL.

STORM DRAIN PIPING TO CONVEY DISCHARGE FROM BMPs TO OFFSITE CONNECTION
PROPOSED STORM DRAIN JUNCTION BOX OR MANHOLE

PROPOSED STORM DRAIN INLET CONNECTION TO SILVA CELL. 6” INV. PIPE OUT
TYPICALLY 14” BELOW RIM ELEVATION.

ABANDON EXISTING 18” SD PIPE. INSTALL NEW 18” SD PIPE AND CONNECT TO
EXISTING UPSTREAM CURB INLET AND DOWNSTREAM MANHOLE.

EX. CURB INLET TO REMAIN, PLUG EXISTING OUTLET PIPES AND ABANDON IN
PLACE. TIE IN NEW DISTRIBUTION PIPES TO SILVA CELL BMPS.

BUILDING PLUMBING PIPING TO CONVEY RUNOFF FROM PODIUM SURFACE
(UNTREATED) TO PROPOSED BMP.

ROOF DRAINAGE TO BMP VIA DOWNSPOUT OR RAINWATER LEADER. DRAINAGE
CROSSING SIDEWALKS WILL BE BELOW GRADE IN PIPES.

OVERFLOW RISER FOR SILVA CELLS. RISER STRUCTURE IS BELOW GRADE AND
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE.

PROPOSED STORM DRAIN INLET / CATCH BASIN.

EXISTING FIBER OPTIC LINE TO BE ADJUSTED TO INSTALL NEW SILVA CELLS.

DRY UTILITY NOTES

TRANSITION FROM EXISTING OVERHEAD JOINT POWER OLE TO UNDERGROUND
ELECTRIC MAIN.

BUILDING ELECTRICAL SERVICE AND TRANSFORMER INSIDE TRANSFORMER

SANITARY SEWER LINE AND UTILITY ” Nore: 2 UTILITY ROOM
STORM DRAIN LINE EASEMENT ve a Ay 0 ALL PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE — :
ELECTRIC LINE INCH = 40 FT EONNECUONS CUAL He LOCATED RELOCATE EXISTING COMMUNICATIONS DUCT BANK UNDER CONCRETE.
UNDERGROUND 3
COMMUNICATIONS LINE
PROPERTY BOUNDARY UTILITY PLAN SCALE: 1"=40' C-4
477 9TH AVE SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

334 of 517


--- page 335 ---
PROPOSED SDMH

12

12
SDCB, RIM = 19.60 15°
2° SDINV. OUT=13, 76

132 IF?’ 7 - ee - ee
eae &

Oe

INV, IN-(W) = 13.10 7 L 18” SD_INV.N (5) = 13.58
INV IN (5S) = 14.06 i te # y= 50 EX_.247 INV. oui (NE) = 10.82
INV.OUT (NE) = 12.85 15” INV. OUT (NE) =-11.94
SOUTH CLAREMONT sueg ;
ye 32 LF 12” SD @ S=0.005
192 LF 12” SD @ S=0,005~S& “*

PROPOSED SOMH

CONNECT TO EX, SDMH
15° SD _INV_IN (SW, 1.60

~ 69 LF 15”

@ f

(LJ LL _|
ce aw 4y ot
{INCH = AFT

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN LEGEND

PROPOSED PERVIOUS AREA, SELF TREATING

42 LF 12° SD @ S=0.005 @ S=0.005 | ——_
7a i PROPOSED IMPERVIOUS AREA
—)—— ag : - = Se > {PROPOSED SDUB
5 -9 L127 INV_IN (SW) = 13.29 OFF-SITE SILVA CELLS
28 LF 6” SD | BM obtne) iB5
# FC 18,07, TOP BIO 16.24 | “ie ON-SITE SILVA CELLS
20x | @ S=0.01 | oY GieRLOW RM 1674 7 Y//,
SDCB, RIM = 19.50 6” PERF IN =13.34 [7,74
¥ 6” SD INV. OUT=18.12 12” INV. OUT= 13.34 Ps diy bu sear Ae BIO-RETENTION PLANTER
R POT TBO TIN — | 6” PERF IN =12.52
- Se se » iP = ww, PIKE 19” INV. THRUS 12.52 mr mmr mms mt DRAINAGE AREA BOUNDARY
=14, DRAINAGE AREA ID, SEE C.3 TABLE ON
12” INV. OUT= 14,27 @ S=0.005 f FOLLOWING SHEET
86 LF 12” SO
ae _— © S=0.005—s | BMP ID, SEE C.3 TABLE ON FOLLOWING SHEET
ne i Ng et 6” SD PIPE DISCHARGE INTO SILVA CELL 2” ABOVE
‘ g } (#) THE FINISHED GRADE OF THE BIORETENTION SOIL
ee # il PROPOSED SDJB INTO DISTRIBUTION PIPE (NOT SHOWN)
EH . VE 12° INV. THRU =12.78
= : Abb Si! SILVA CELL NOTES:
8 HS 3 mg [& 1. EACH SILVA CELL IS ASSUMED TO PROVIDE 9.5 SQUARE FEET OF TREATMENT AREA
* Heute all eR fa PER THE DEEPROOT SILVA CELL SIZING CALCULATOR,
Sema So {= Ix 2. EACH SILVA CELL IS 2.25’ X 4.25° WHICH INCORPORATES 0.25’ BETWEEN EACH CELL
20% || aa is (0.08'-0.50" REQUIRED)
1 3. NEW TREE ROOT BALL INCLUDED IN TREATMENT AREA.
SQCB, RIM 21.46 oh LOR j 4, SILVA CELL AREAS ARE DESIGNED TO TREAT THE 0.2 INCHES/HOUR STORM EVENT
6” INV. IN (N)=20.69 a 87 LF 12” SD © S=0.0175 AND SIZED USING THE FLOW BASED SIZING CRITERIA “4 PERCENT METHOD”
6” INV. OUT=20.69 ; 5. THE PERFORATED PIPING OF THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM IN THE SILVA CELLS IS
35 LF 6” SD @ S=0.01 x PROPOSED SDUB DESIGNED FOR THE 0.2 IN/HR STORM EVENT. WATER IN EXCESS OF THE 0.2
¥ INCHES/HOUR STORM WILL POND IN THE SILVA CELL AND OUTFALL INTO AN
/ 12° INV. THRU =14.50 OVERFLOW STRUCTURE.
ae 0.68% / 6. WATER IN EXCESS OF THE C3 STORM EVENT OF 0.2 IN/HR OVERFLOWS THE WEIR
f rs INSTALLED IN THE CATCH BASINS AND ORAINS area TO THE STORM DRAIN
y no po BY - wl 258 > NETWORK,
FV ASPEN cs — " = 7. SILVA CELLS TO BE CONSIDERED "TREE WELL FILTER” FOR PURPOSES OF SELECTED
: | eee i Go LE AZ po @ S=0.0175 PLANT TYPES UNDER SAN MATEO COUNTY C.3 REGULATED PROJECTS GUIDE
——_— | APPENDIX A "PLANT LIST".
PROPOSED SDJB 8 EACH INLET TO USE "FULL CAPTURE” TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES CONSISTENT WITH
FG 22 09, TOF 810, 19 67 56 IF 8° SD e a i 0) = a ul THE STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD'S REGULATIONS.
OVERFLO , 4 516,
6" PERF IN =16.87 @ $=0.024 | 127 INV, OUT=15.84
8” INV. OUT= 16.87
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN scate: 1"=40 C-5
——=
—= ) — 477 9TH AVE
es

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

335 of 517


--- page 336 ---
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT NOTES:

C.3 SIZING CALCULATIONS
1. FLOOD ZONE DESIGNATION: FOR THIS PROJECT AREA: MAP PANEL 06081C0154G EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS | PERVIOUS EFFECTIVE | REQUIRED BMP AREA*# BMP. AREA FLOOD ZONE DESIGNATION.
aa — ah pi md 40 pervous | (30% PERVIOUS AREA) arg PROVIDED ine APRIL 5, 2019. THE PROJECT AREA IS LOCATED IN ZONE X (AREA OF MINIMAL FLOOD
(SF) (SF) AREA# (SF) (SF) (SF) HAZARD),
ON-SITE 2. PERMIT APPLICABILITY: THE PROPOSED PROJECT WILL INCLUDE MORE THAN 10,000 SQUARE
Ata NW DRIVEWAY / ROOF / WALKWAY 14,502 475 14,977 14,550 436 Bt 510 SILVA CELL FEET OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE ADDITION OR REPLACEMENT AND THEREBY WILL HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH PROVISION C.3 - NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT OF THE
OFF-SITE MUNICIPAL REGIONAL STORMWATER PERMIT (MRP) (ORDER NO. R2-2015-0049). THIS PLAN
Alb NW S. CLAREMONT ST / WALKWAY 5,452 99 5,551 5,462 164 BI 260 SILVA CELL PRESENTS METHODS AND CALCULATIONS FOR COMPLYING WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF
PROVISION C.3 OF THE MRP IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SAN MATEO COUNTY PROGRAM AND
atten Ala + Atb 19,954 574 20,528 20,011 600 BI 790 SUVA CELL THE CITY OF SAN MATEO REQUIREMENTS.
ONLSTE 3. JHE GENERAL STORMWATER QUALITY APPROACH IS AS FOLLOWS:
nee NE ROOF / WALKWAY 4,096 eet 8,525 ait an a a8 anys Ge DEVELOPMENT PARCEL (ON-SITE): THE DEVELOPMENT PARCEL WILL MITIGATE OR TREAT
aESE ITS OWN RUNOFF IN COMPLIANCE WITH C.3.c OF THE MRP BY INSTALLING BEST
Adb NE S. CLAREMONT ST_/ WALKWAY 9,080 599 9,679 9,140 274 B2 290 SILVA CELL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES USING SITE DESIGN MEASURES (INCLUDING INTERCEPTOR TREES),
t SOURCE CONTROL MEASURES, AND LID STRATEGIES (BIOTREATMENT, INFILTRATION,
subital Ala + A2b 17,178 826 18,004 17,261 518 Bo 630 SILVA CELL RAINWATER HARVESTING).
AE EXISTING ROADWAY FRONTAGES (OFF-SITE): IN ACCORDANCE WITH SAN MATEO GREEN
AB 5 8506 420 8.926 8548 256 a3 350 SILVA CELL INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS THE DEVELOPMENT IS REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCTION
° S ROOF / WALKWAY | sum cu | GREEN IMPROVEMENT MEASURES ALONG THE PROPERTY BOUNDARY FRONTAGES TO TREAT
— OFF-SITE RUNOFF FROM THE ADJACENT ROADWAY AND PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
A3b 5 9TH AVE_/ WALKWAY 7,599 120 7,519 74it 222 83 270 SILVA CELL IMPERVIOUS SURFACES.,
re 4, 50% RULE COMPLIANCE — WHERE A REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT RESULTS IN AN ALTERATION
Sahai Aga + A3b 15,905 540 16,445 15,959 479 B3 620 SILVA CELL OF MORE THAN 50% OF THE IMPERVIOUS SURFACE OF A PREVIOUSLY EXISTING
DEVELOPMENT, THE ENTIRE PROJECT, CONSISTING OF ALL EXISTING, NEW, AND/OR
as oi wT ens _ Katt srs 80 - 2 me sv REPLACED IMPERVIOUS SURFACES, MUST BE INCLUDED IN THE TREATMENT SYSTEM DESIGN.
THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IS ALTERING NEARLY ALL OF THE EXISTING IMPERVIOUS
ON-SITE SURFACE OF THE EXISTING DEVELOPMENT, THEREFORE, THE 50% RULE IS TRIGGERED BY
Afb BULIDING COURTYARD#* 5s eS pal aes 162 B 9 SILVA CELL THIS DEVELOPMENT.
Ag Ada + Adb 15,225 377 18,996 15,602 468 B4 490 SILVA CELL 5, HYDROMODIFICATION MANAGEMENT (PROVISION C.3.g): THE PROJECT IS EXEMPT FROM
Subtotal HYDROMODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS PER THE SAN MATEO COUNTY C.3 TECHNICAL GUIDANCE
ON-SITE BIO-RETENTION DOCUMENT. THE PROJECT IS EXEMPT DUE TO THE WATER SHED DRAINING INTO A
ASa INNER ROOF 4,929 172 5101 4,946 148 85a 172 PLANTERS HARDENED CHANNEL AS INDICATED ON THE SAN MATEO HM CONTROL AREA MAP REVISED
ASb ON-SITE Re - HE — o - - Re Rea MARCH 27, 2009.
INNER ROOF : ! , PLANTERS 6. MANAGING PEAK FLOWS: THE EXISTING SITE DRAINS TO THE SAN MATEO STORM STORM
ON-SITE Bi-eetaon DRAIN SYSTEM VIA PIPES BELOW GRADE. THE PROJECT DESIGN WILL INCLUDE AN ON-SITE
ASe 5,071 202 5,273 5,091 153 BSc 202 ay STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SIZED FOR THE 10 YEAR PEAK STORM DRAIN EVENT. ANY STORM
INNER ROOF EVENTS THAT EXCEED THIS DESIGN EVENT WILL DISCHARGE OFF-SITE VIA OVERLAND FLOW
ON-SITE Bp RETO TO PUBLIC STREETS. THE PROJECT WILL MAINTAIN PRE-DEVELOPMENT FLOW RATES TO THE
ASd INNER ROOF 4475 218 4,693 4497 135 Bbd 218 percep SAN MATEO STORM DRAIN SYSTEM FOR THE 10-YEAR PEAK DISCHARGE EVENT.
7, QVERLAND FLOW REQUIREMENT: STREET CROSS SECTIONS SHALL BE DESIGNED TO
TOTAL 86,308 5,883 92,726 86,950 2,609 3,217 ACCOMODATE THE 100 YEAR STORM EVENT VIA OVERLAND FLOW.
8, STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DURING CONSTRUCTION - ALL PROJECTS SHALL COMPLY WITH
THE CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT. COVERAGE AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE
NOTES: MAINTAINED FOR EACH PROJECT ON AN INDEPENDENT BASIS. THE FILING OF NOTICES OF
* — EFECTIVE IMPERVIOUS SURFACES IS THE SUM OF THE IMPERVIOUS AREA AND THE PERVIOUS AREA MULTIPLIED BY 0.1. INTENT AND NOTICES OF TERMINATION WILL CORRESPOND TO THE PHASING OF THE
#4 INTERIOR COURTYARD ASSUMED TO BE 75% IMPERVIOUS. PROJECT.
#4 AREA REQUIRED USING THE COMBINATION FLOW AND VOLUME METHOD. 9. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY: THIS PROJECT WILL PREPARE AN
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL FOR THE BMPS IT WILL BE CONSTRUCTING. THE
O&M MANUAL WILL BE SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL TO THE CITY DURING THE PERWITTING
PROCESS. FOLLOWING CONSTRUCTION, A MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY WILL BE
RECORDED WTH THE COUNTY,
Es
—= ) —— 477 9TH AVE SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023
ABs

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

336 of 517


--- page 337 ---
3

H

TO MUNICIPAL

STORM SYSTEM
( ) SILVA CELL SYSTEM + CATCH BASIN
NOTTOSCALE

KEY PLAN

O PRETREATMENT, AS REQUIRED, BY OTHERS, OUTLET OF PRETREATMENT BECOMES THE INLET TO THE SILVA CELL SYSTEM
1 STORMWATER ENTERS THE SILVA CELL SYSTEM THROUGH A CATCH BASIN

2 WATER IS DISTRIBUTED THROUGH THE SILVA CELL SYSTEM THROUGH PERFORATED PIPES

3 WATER THEN MOVES THROUGH THE PLANTING SOIL HOUSED WITHIN THE SILVA CELL SYSTEM

4 EXCESS WATER IS COLLECTED IN A PERFORATED DRAIN PIPE AND |S DIRECTED TOWARD A DOWNSTREAM CATCH BASIN
5 CLEANOUT

6 WATER COLLECTED IN THE COLLECTION PIPE IS DIRECTED TO THE MUNICIPAL STORM SYSTEM

WATER ENTERS
SYSTEM THROUGH
CATCH BASINS

sz SS eee aaa
ees. Perera Somecreecwint nee cos Gy ox SOPLOEELLELER ES PECTLPESECLFEL EE
PYY £ rt

= iaclsgrics

TORR

TO NUNICIPAL
STOFM SYSTEM

SILVA CELL SYSTEM + CATCH BASIN we ‘
NOTTO SCALE

KEY PLAN

A SILVA CELL SYSTEM (DECK, BASE, AND POSTS)
B OPTIONAL PONDING SPACE
C DISTRIBUTION PIPE

D COLLECTION PIPE
E CLEANOUT
F CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL STORM SYSTEM
DIRECTION OF WATER FLOW —>
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN DETAILS C-6.1
>t
— 477 9TH AVE SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

337 of 517


--- page 338 ---
OPTIONAL MOUNDING PARAMETERS

PLANTING MOUNDS CONSTRUCTED OF BSM MAY BE

PROVIDED SUBJECT TO MUNICIPAL APPROVAL. TOP

OF MOUNDS AT LEAST 2° BELOW CREST OF r

OVERFLOW RISER, LOW POINTS NO MORE THAN 1:

CLEANOUT WITH CAP AT FIN. BELOW CREST OF RISER

OVERFLOW RISER WITH GRATE
6-INCH MINIMUM
12-INCH MAXIMUM ABOVE LOW
POINT OF PLANTING AREA

Figure 6-15: Plan view of long, linear planter, with inlets
to the planter distributed along its length at 10’ intervals,

PERFORATED OR SLOTTED SLOPED

UNDERDRAIN (SLOPE AT 0.50% MIN)
WITH PERFORATIONS DOWN, SEE PLAN

novarwmn = SECTION A-A

Figure 6-17; Cross section A-A of flow-through planter, shows side view of underdrain (Not to Scale)

TOP OF MOUNDS AT LEAST 2° BELOW CREST
OF OVERFLOW RISER, LOW POINTS NO HORE
12° BELOW CREST OF OVERFLOW RISER

CLEANOUT WITH CAP AT FIN.

COBBLES OR SPLASH BLOCK

DOWN SPOUT
PLANTER WALL BUILDING

m= PLAN VIEW

STRUCTURAL

Figure 6-16: Plan view of planter designed to disperse flows adequately with only one inlet to planter

Figure 6-18: Cross section B-B of flow-through planter, shows cross section of underdrain

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN DETAILS C-6.2

=z
— ) — 477 9TH AVE SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023
Ae

ARCHITECTURE All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

338 of 517


--- page 339 ---
av

a0

{INCH = 40 FT

C-7.0

JUNE 23, 2023

:1"=40!

SCALE

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

339 of 517

OFFSITE PHOTOMETRIC PLAN

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

477 9TH AVE

my yh yy
oR ost och ost ih oft cay
rm — —
Ss Ge Se ot Ga Se ee eS
mt ot otk Ge at Gt St at Se Oe ee ee OO
Se Se ae ae Me Se Qe Se Ye Se Oe OM MS ne os
Te Se Se GEOR ait nit ait TOS Oe SOM OH OH Oe Se OOF at ct ot FAQ
=r he Ge Ge Se Ge Se ae Be Se Oe Bk hen SS Ee ek Se Bek Rot atk abt AIP ai Dh Me
st Gr Be Se tt ait ait alt at St GF Se tt Oe Ot ie De Se BRS Ge ait ee eR Se QD
Se Te Se gt at att Te Me ar Se Te SSR Se eS oH
+ St Se ar aiP ate — Sr eee Se ces
Selig St Yt | 2
uw aaa . yy
ze Be St at alt ait cit —e Be
Be =, al a, a
2 t Se ait a ait alt ee
3 ye Hm Ww wy
y Bo cit oat Gt ©
>
aoa 5 al a o ow
g° [ oe ap cit St Za
@ fat]
my ye oR
2 at at Se Me ae <yy)
- ° 85
FUraaaArma es ua 4 Vv
SH Se Se Be ag
‘§ H
a RPT. ®
|. Sr SW Sp Ep Se a
Be Se Op. WE. Oy
|. SH OH OB
BS & & & Ft
t S S Re St Gs
Ee ae Be Oy
{ Se Sr Te Be
H&M Ge S&S
ye Dp A De Oy
. Re atte Saks Tae
ur 2. il % % Se oe oe
4
se oy nt roy o Nn
lu 22 SF Br Sr Se Be
a ae &
FE ¥3 SF Sr Sp Be Se
fat
w a2 ct Op Sp Bp
Ee boa | nh mM o
> Me Me Se Se
[e) Seo te Se Gt
=> a St Me he St Ge
ae | Sa SF GS GH
<< 2a Ss & SS SG
rs) t St Se
= $a S&S S&S a
E t % tH Se Ses, “Sy,
ra S % & Se St TH hy,
“%
Ww Oy at Sb Me
meer Se Se ae,
= 7
(3) Sr Se ait Se Se
& O S&S BR re %,
Te pot GP our a. 2 bs,
A ey "Bin
Sf ae Se ba a
2. ia u we
Bt St St Se St St Be ws
u + oa
Lgagnaas oH
me hy ae ne. Be tf #8 Y
SS % G oS SG BEM x
Je He Oe BE + 2
BS oe | _
t SU yy
ett St Se Re Se y
t= % Oe ye He oe NEY
—— =

=


--- page 340 ---
LIGHT Po eae ese
POLE | MAST | LUMINAIRE
aeear| apy Type. |VOLTAGE| LOSS | QUANTITY DESIGN | CALCULATED
FACTOR*
AVERAGE FOOTCANDLES | 1.3 1.7
Ems re ae HEAD | 3p 3 LED |120-277| 0.490 1
9TH AVE ROAD AVERAGE /MINIMUM 30 1.73
PROPOSED 2020-CH-48W ; _ MAXIMUM MINIMUM 50 3.10
COBRA HEAD LUMINAIRE | %2 | 8 |e?) ee |e li
AVERAGE FOOTCANDLES | 08 15
PROPOSED 2020-CH-95W ; 7 CLAREMONT ST
COBRA HEAD LUMINAIRE | 22 8 LED = |120-277| 0.803 6 aan AVERAGE /MINIMUM 35 214
EMSTNG 29W COBRA HEAD | 5 | 5 ep 120-2771 NOT ; MAXIMUM /MINIMUM oe |__ tke
LUMINAIRE TO BE REMOVED MODELED om AVE average roorcanmes | 0s ag
EXISTING 65W COBRA HEAD , NOT SIDEWALK
‘UMMA Folia wageven | te 3 LED 120-277 | oneien| AVERAGE /MINIMUM 40 1.57
EXISTING 65W COBRA HEAD F NOT CLAREMONT ST AVERAGE FOOTCANDLES 0.5 0.5
(F) o—it | TymivaiRe 70 BE REMOVED | 22 8 LED 120-277 | von ep| 4 SIDEWALK Tom 7 =
*PER CITY OF SAN MATEO GUIDELINES, TOTAL LIGHT LOSS FACTOR (LLF) HAS BEEN CALCULATED USING A BASE LLF oH AVE
OF 0.803 (TO ACCOUNT FOR NORMAL DECREASE IN PERFORMANCE OVER TIME) ALONG WITH A MANUALLY APPLIED CL ole ay ST _ aa | oe | ee
ADDITIONAL LLF (TO ACCOUNT FOR VARIABLE WATTAGE SELECTIONS WITHIN MODELS) INTESECTION AVERAGE /MINIMUM 30 1.94
TOTAL LLF = 0.803 X MANUAL LLF *DESIGN VALUES WERE DETERMINED BASED ON:
-ANSI/ IES RP-8-18 ROADWAY LIGHTING SECTIONS
-CITY OF SAN MATEO STREETLIGHT PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS ZONE
GUIDELINES (JUNE 2021)
-CITY OF SAN MATEO STREETLIGHT PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS ZONE
GUIDELINES - EXAMPLE (NOVEMBER 10, 2021)
-CITY OF SAN MATEO COMMENTS DATED FEBRUARY 11, 2022
OFFSITE PHOTOMETRIC
SCHEDULES SCALE: NTS. C-7.1
Es
—= ) —— 477 9TH AVE SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA JUNE 23, 2023
ABs

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

340 of 517


--- page 341 ---
{INCH = 40 FT

8 18 17 16 Uf

2
24
— ra
a a oy Se —., ~— W 5
1
| ait St St St Seca oe Pe Eee == TT] %~
1S ee cof ad
i | = =
i a + ee Be
| o x= a SS (RH
: TT ee Se RH Se
| ] . Ol. Te. a Se |
| ih = Se Pe
it o
mM t Gi fa eT Oe I Se
I Fe rr arb Ste Se Ry Se
| fw { = - WT Woe Se Se fH Se
ii Mo, ey ry fy}
Wy A)
a 2 q rv ros) fey <C,
o a+ Me I Se
iL
1
pts) ae
7
it
|
| oa gq ——,-,
——
it
HH —7
| " a q =—
| u
tn , |i Lf
—
Lu , a
ac i 3 q —
i
w i ————s
‘a oO} ——
LL ——s
u A
= | a d —
WwW | ‘l —
oa
< 1 . —
4 iH
| o j}-——_—S]| —————
oo = .
Ee —l —T 5
3 : ;
D =
. ~—-
NE SS St Se ae a ee cr: Tat ag a gel
yy ye yh ye mh Ah Oh ye Oy OS, ey ey
(Se ce Se et Se OH OS OS oS SS
|Turueoeoageese@oeeeeaaeaeaeat

a

C-8.0

JUNE 23, 2023

SCALE: 1"=40'
341 of 517

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

ONSITE PHOTOMETRIC PLAN

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

477 9TH AVE



--- page 342 ---
LIGHT poo -weeesneeee
DESCRIPTION aati ae VOLTAGE cAcrOR QUANTITY DESIGN | CALCULATED
PROPOSED 49W WALL MOUNTED To oe ee on AVE AVERAGE FOOTCANDLES | bad
LUMINAIRE
PROPOSED 2020-CH—48W COBRA FRONTAGE — = a
-CH- - AVERAGE /MINIMUM 4 171
HEAD LUMINAIRE. (OFFSITE)* LED |120-277) 0.469 f |_| AMERAGE MINIM | 4 |
PROPOSED 2020-CH-95W COBRA AVERAGE POOTEANIES | 2
~CH- _ PARKING DRIVE
HEAD LUMINAIRE (OFFSITE)* helt ianad? | OR | AGLE MINIMUM 03 | OA
AVERAGE/MINIMUM 4 2.94
OFFSITE FIXTURES WHICH PROVIDE LIGHT ONSITE AT SITE DRIVEWAYS AND FRONTAGES HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN
Tl: AAR FG? AGU Miietae ‘DESIGN VALUES WERE DETERMINED BASED ON:
~CITY OF SAN MATEO STREETLIGHT PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS ZONE
GUIDELINES (JUNE 2021)
~CITY OF SAN MATEO STREETLIGHT PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS ZONE
GUIDELINES - EXAMPLE (NOVEMBER 10, 2021)
~CITY OF SAN MATEO COMMENTS DATED FEBRUARY 11, 2022
ONSITE PHOTOMETRIC
SCHEDULES SCALE: N.S. C-8.1

=

477 9TH AVE

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

JUNE 23, 2023

All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.

342 of 517


--- page 343 ---
GENERAL NOTES.
1. 
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE
HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS
FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2. 
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN
IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
PLW
100 101
14 13
2.1
3.1
4.1
5.1
6.1
7.1
8.1
9.1
10.1
11.1
3. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF
CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES
AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
287'-11 5/8"
25'-2 1/2"
67'-1 1/2"
27'-6"
27'-6"
27'-6"
27'-7"
26'-9"
50'-1 7/8"
33'-10 1/4"
FRONT-LOAD
COLLECTION VEHICLE
SHOWNENTERINGSITE
WHEEL PATH
ENVELOPEFORWARD
35ftFrontEndLoader
MIXED-USE TRASH ROOM
SEESHEETTR1.1
S. CLAREMONT ST
16'-8"
30'-23/4"
7
7
PLN
PLN
A.1
F52
19.80
18.49'
18.49'
20.10'
20.06'
UP
19.68
8' - 6"
15'-93/4"
35ft Front End Loader
25' - 0"
19.60'
Overall Length
35.000ft
8.330ft
1.400ft
1.400ft
8.000ft
4.00s
32.000ft
A.5
B.5
Overall Width
Overall Body Height
Min Body Ground Clearance
Track Width
Lock-to-lock time
Curb to Curb Turning Radius
PROPOSED
OFFICE
RESTROOM
W
R
21.50'
GARAGE ACCESS
GATE
1.13%
DN
19.60'
19.60'
C.2
C.5
24'-0"
DRIVEAISLE
ADJACENT
BLDG
22.25'
19.90'
U-LINEMODELH-1615 COLLAPSIBLE
WIRECONTAINERW/ CASTERSFOR
CARDBOARDCOLLECTION
5'-0"
5'-0"
7.5%
15.0%
+0'-9"
22.30
5' - 0"
ATPARKINGCORRIDOR-
COORDINATEWITHARCHITECT
D.5
D.6
20.90114 BIKES
20.90
DN
2% Max.
2% Max.
20.90'
DN
22.30'
20.90
22.68'
TS
UP
E.5
H.1
UP
22.30'
F52
T5
FRONT-LOAD
COLLECTION VEHICLE
SHOWNEXITINGSITE
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
PLS
PLS
CALTRAIN RAILROAD TRACKS
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
FRONT-LOAD TRUCK STUDY
ENTERING AND EXITING SITE
SCALE: NTS
TR0.1
As Indicated
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
consultingprojects@trashmanage.com
343 of 517

--- page 344 ---
GENERAL NOTES.
1. 
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE
HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS
FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2. 
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN
IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
PLW
100 101
14 13
2.1
3.1
4.1
5.1
6.1
7.1
8.1
9.1
10.1
11.1
3. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF
CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES
AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
287'-11 5/8"
25'-2 1/2"
67'-1 1/2"
27'-6"
27'-6"
27'-6"
27'-7"
26'-9"
50'-1 7/8"
33'-10 1/4"
SU-30 TRUCK
SHOWNENTERINGSITE
WHEEL PATH
ENVELOPEFORWARD
30
SU-30-SingleUnitTruck
MIXED-USE TRASH ROOM
SEESHEETTR1.1
S. CLAREMONT ST
16'-8"
30'-23/4"
7
7
PLN
PLN
A.1
F52
19.80
18.49'
18.49'
20.10'
20.06'
UP
19.68
8' - 6"
4
20
15'-93/4"
25' - 0"
19.60'
SU-30 - Single Unit Truck
A.5
B.5
Overall Length
30.000ft
8.000ft
13.500ft
1.367ft
8.000ft
Overall Width
Overall Body Height
Min Body Ground Clearance
Track Width
Lock-to-lock time
Max Steering Angle (Virtual)
PROPOSED
W
R
OFFICE
RESTROOM
5.00s
31.80°
21.50'
GARAGE ACCESS
GATE
1.13%
DN
19.60'
19.60'
C.2
C.5
24'-0"
DRIVEAISLE
ADJACENT
BLDG
22.25'
19.90'
U-LINEMODELH-1615 COLLAPSIBLE
WIRECONTAINERW/ CASTERSFOR
CARDBOARDCOLLECTION
5'-0"
5'-0"
7.5%
15.0%
+0'-9"
22.30
5' - 0"
ATPARKINGCORRIDOR-
COORDINATEWITHARCHITECT
D.5
D.6
20.90114 BIKES
20.90
DN
2% Max.
2% Max.
20.90'
DN
22.30'
20.90
22.68'
TS
UP
E.5
H.1
UP
22.30'
F52
T5
SU-30 TRUCK
SHOWNEXITINGSITE
CONCRETE
STRESS
PAD
LOADING AREA
TRASH
PLS
PLS
CALTRAIN RAILROAD TRACKS
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
SU-30 TRUCK STUDY
ENTERING AND EXITING SITE
SCALE: NTS
TR0.2
As Indicated
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
consultingprojects@trashmanage.com
344 of 517

--- page 345 ---
SHEET NOTES:
PROJECTED COLLECTION SCHEDULE: RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM
RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM. LEVEL 1.
SERVICE:
M
1
Tu
W
Th
F
Sa
Su
1.
TRASH COLLECTION ROOM IS 2HR FIRE-RATED - RESTRICTED ACCESS.
2. 
FLOOR SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING. FLOOR TO HAVE MINIMAL
SLOPE (1° MAX) AND FLOOR DRAIN. FLOOR LEVEL UNDER COMPACTORS.
3. 
WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF SURFACE SUCH AS FRP OR
HIGH-GLOSS ENAMEL PAINT 8'-0" AFF.
4. 
WALL PROTECTION: 12"Hx6"W CONCRETE CURB AT BASE OF WALLS PER PLAN.
5. 
ROOM SHALL BE MECHANICALLY VENTILATED WITH (1) CFM/SF PER 2022 CBC.
6. 
9'-3" WIDE ROLL-UP DOOR FOR TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS. INSTALL 3'-0" NFPA
COMPLIANT DOOR FOR FIRE EGRESS.
WASTE - 3CY COMPACTED
RECYCLING - 3CY COMPACTED
COMPOST - 2CY LOOSE
TOTAL
1
1
1
2
1
1
2
1
3
0
0
0
0
CORRIDOR
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE
ONLY (S.A.D.)
7. 
(2) 30"Ø 16G GALVANIZED OR GALVANNEALED STEEL CHUTES WITH APOLLO MODEL A500
SINGLE-SIDE LATCH COMPACTORS AND 3CY FL COMPACTOR CONTAINERS FOR WASTE AND
RECYCLING DISPOSAL. CHUTES SHALL TERMINATE AT 5'-9" AFF. PROVIDE 3'-0" FL LOOSE
CONTAINERS FOR COMPOST DISPOSAL.
8. 
PP: COMPACTOR POWER PACKS SHALL BE FLOOR-MOUNTED AND STACKED VERTICALLY.
(2) 5HP 3-PHASE, 208/230/460V. (2) 30A DISCONNECTS 60" AFF.
9. 
MCP: CHUTE MASTER CONTROL PANEL SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. MUST ALLOW
LOCK DOWN OF CHUTE INTAKES FOR EXCHANGING CONTAINERS AND WASHING CHUTES.
120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED. (2) TOTAL.
10. AC: AIR COMPRESSOR (OIL LESS) 4610AC WITH AUTOMATIC TANK DRAIN VALVE. 2 HP PEAK,
TWIN TANK CAPACITY 4.6 GALLONS, VOLTAGE @ 60 HZ 110 VOLTS, CURRENT 8.5 AMPS TO
POWER THE CHUTE INTAKE DOORS. (1) TOTAL.
PROJECTED COLLECTION SCHEDULE: COMMERCIAL TRASH ROOM
SERVICE:
M
1
Tu
W
Th
F
1
1
2
4
Sa
Su
WASTE - 3CY LOOSE
RECYCLING - 3CY LOOSE
COMPOST - 64G TOTER
TOTAL
3'-0" VESTIBULE
ACCESS DOOR
1
1
2
3
A36 L112"
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME, TYP
x 112" x 14 x 3'-2" LONG
2
W
R
(2) 30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTES W/ 34"Ø
FLOOR OPENINGS, SEE NOTE 18
4
0
0
0
0
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PADS
(4) TOTAL AT EA FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME
11. OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET
REQUIRED.
12. HB: HOT AND COLD HOSE BIBB SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
13. PROVIDE A WASTE CADDY FOR TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS. OUTSIDE TURNING RADIUS:
(2) 15x18 B.H. INTAKE
DOORS, SEE NOTE 16
11'-8". INSIDE TURNING RADIUS: 8'-612". TRAVEL PATH: 3'-6". HALL WIDTH: 5'-11". STAFF SHALL
TRANSFER CONTAINERS TO STAGING AREA FOR PICK-UP DAYS. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET
REQUIRED. STORE IN RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM.
8
TR2.0
SIM
COMPOST
14. CHUTE DISCHARGE DOOR: WILKINSON TYPE-A, B-LABEL CONSTRUCTION 90 MINUTE FIRE-
RATED, HORIZONTALLY ROLLING DOOR, HELD OPEN BY 165°F FUSIBLE LINK, SHOWN IN
CLOSED POSITION.
15. PROVIDE (1) UNDEDICATED 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED FOR STAFF
MAINTENANCE PURPOSE.
B.5
SLIM JIM CONTAINER
SEE NOTE 16
2.1
30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTE
(2) TOTAL, SEE NOTE 7
9
CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULE. SIMILAR AT LEVELS 3-5.
TYP
TR2.0
16. CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULES SHALL BE 2HR FIRE-RATED WITH 2HR FIRE-RATED ACCESS
DOORS. 5'-0" MIN CLEAR REQUIRED PER ADA STANDARDS - RESIDENTIAL ACCESS. POWER
TO INTAKE DOORS SUPPLIED BY MCP. PROVIDE (2) 15x18 BOTTOM HINGED, NORMALLY
CLOSED LOW-VOLTAGE, ELECTRICALLY INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC OPENING DOOR FOR
WASTE AND RECYCLING AT EACH FLOOR, SEE DETAIL 3/TR2.0. FOR COMPOST COLLECTION
MANAGEMENT TO PROVIDE 23-GALLON 'RUBBERMAID SLIM JIM' CONTAINER OR
EQUIVALENT. STAFF TO EMPTY IN 2CY FL LOOSE CONTIANERS DAILY AT TRASH ROOM.
PROVIDE U-LINE MODEL H-1615 COLLAPSIBLE WIRE CONTAINER W/ CASTERS FOR
CARDBOARD COLLECTION.
LEVEL
(S.A.D.)
1
CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULE
SIMILAR AT LEVELS 3-5
SCALE:1
8" = 1'-0"
CHUTE DISCHARGE DOOR
TYP, SEE NOTE 14
17. 2HR FIRE-RATED FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN
INSTALLED. FOR SOUND PROOFING PURPOSES, DOUBLE STUD-WALLS ARE REQUIRED
ADJACENT TO OCCUPIED SPACES. INTERIOR OF SHAFT SHALL BE TAPED TO PREVENT
ODOROUS AIR LEAKING INTO OCCUPIED SPACES.
18. PROVIDE ROUND FLOOR OPENINGS AT CONCRETE FLOORS AND SQUARED FLOOR
OPENINGS AT WOOD-FRAME CONSTRUCTION. SEE PLAN FOR DIAMETER OF OPENINGS.
INSTALL FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME AT EACH FLOOR PENETRATION TO SECURE CHUTE. SEE
DETAIL 9/TR2.0 FOR ANCHORING. POUR RINGS WILL VARY BASED ON THICKNESS OF FLOOR
SLAB - PROVIDED BY MANUFACTURER.
RECYCLING
WASTE
30"Ø GALV. STEEL
CHUTE (2) TOTAL
BASEMENT LEVEL
(S.A.D.)
APOLLO MODEL A500 SSL
COMPACTOR (2) TOTAL
30A DISCONNECT
(2) TOTAL
WALL PROTECTION
TYP, SEE NOTE 4
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL BY
OTHERS (S.A.D.) SEE NOTE 3
FLOORS BY OTHERS
(S.A.D.) SEE NOTE
APOLLO MODEL A500 SSL COMPACTOR
(2) TOTAL, CONTAINER NOT SHOWN
FOR CLARITY
2
COMMERCIAL TRASH ROOM. LEVEL 1.
AC
SECTION A-A
19. TRASH COLLECTION ROOM IS 2HR FIRE-RATED - RESTRICTED ACCESS.
20. FLOOR SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING. FLOOR TO HAVE MINIMAL
SLOPE (1° MAX) AND FLOOR DRAIN. FLOOR LEVEL UNDER COMPACTORS.
21. WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF SURFACE SUCH AS FRP OR
HIGH-GLOSS ENAMEL PAINT 8'-0" AFF.
64G CART
COMMERCIAL
COMPOST
PP
S
C
P
O
AMRPE3
AC
C
T
Y
O
FRL
S
C
P
O
AMRPE3
AC
C
T
Y
O
FRL
CONTAINER
RESIDENTIAL
WASTE
CONTAINER
RESIDENTIAL
RECYCLING
3CY FL LOOSE
CONTAINER
COMMERCIAL
RECYCLING
64G CART
COMMERCIAL
COMPOST
22. WALL PROTECTION: 12"Hx6"W CONCRETE CURB AT BASE OF WALLS PER PLAN.
23. ROOM SHALL BE MECHANICALLY VENTILATED WITH (1) CFM/SF PER 2019 CBC.
24. 6'-0" WIDE DOUBLE-SWING DOOR WITH FLOOR SWEEPS AND HOLD-OPENS FOR
TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS. DO NOT INSTALL THRESHOLD.
25. OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET
REQUIRED.
26. HB: HOT AND COLD HOSE BIBB SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
27. PROVIDE (1) UNDEDICATED 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED FOR STAFF
MAINTENANCE PURPOSE.
3CY FL
COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
RESIDENTIAL
WASTE
30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTE
(2) TOTAL, SEE NOTE 7
9
TYP
W
R
TR2.0
LEVEL
(S.A.D.)
1
FD
FD
2CY FL LOOSE
CONTAINER
RESIDENTIAL
COMPOST
CHUTE DISCHARGE
DOOR, SEE NOTE 14
3CY FL LOOSE
CONTAINER
COMMERCIAL
WASTE
3CY FL
C
C
O
O
MNPTAACINTEO
R
R
RESIDENTIAL
RECYCLING
HB
COMPACTOR
ACCESS DOOR
GENERAL NOTES.
36V WASTE CADDY
SEE NOTE 13
B-B
-
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE
HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS
FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
SIM
A-A
-
2CY FL COMPACTOR
CONTAINER
B.5
HB
OC
MCP
MCP
3'-0" FIRE
EGRESS DOOR
2. 
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN
IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
9'-3" WIDE ROLL-UP DOOR
BASEMENT LEVEL
(S.A.D.)
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET, SEE NOTE 15
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET, SEE NOTE 15
6'-0" WIDE DOUBLE-SWING
DOOR, SEE NOTE 24
FLOORS BY OTHERS
(S.A.D.) SEE NOTE
SINGLE SIDE LATCH FOR
CONTAINER REMOVAL
2
3. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF
CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES
AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
SECTION B-B
2.1
0'
30'
60'
TRUE
MIXED-USE TRASH ROOM PLAN
SECTIONS
LEVEL 1
SCALE:1
8" = 1'-0"
AT RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM
SCALE:1
8" = 1'-0"
TR1.1
As Indicated
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
consultingprojects@trashmanage.com
345 of 517

--- page 346 ---
NOTES:
1. 
INTAKE DOOR AND TRIM SHALL BE REMOVED FOR DOOR MAINTENANCE.
2. 
BOTTOM HINGED DOORS ARE SELF-CLOSING, NOISELESS, AND SELF-LATCHING. UL CLASSIFIED 90 MINUTE FIRE-RATED DOOR AND FRAME
ASSEMBLY AND A TEMPERATURE RISE OF 250° F MAX IN 30 MINUTES.
SHEET NOTES. 30"Ø CHUTE DETAILS.
WALL PANEL PER
SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
3. 
MAX OPENING FOR INTAKE DOOR IS 14" FROM FACE OF FINISHED WALL.
4. 
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES AND NO LOWER THAN
15 INCHES ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
5. 
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE
TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL
BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
6. 
18x18 AIR ASSIST ACCESS DOOR IS LARGEST DOOR THAT ATM WILL DESIGN FOR CHUTE INTAKE.
7. 
ATM WILL NEVER DESIGN A 24x24 INTAKE DOOR AS THESE DOOR SIZES HAVE LED TO FATALITIES.
1. 
16-GAUGE GALVANIZED / GALVANNEALED STEEL.
2. 
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL ASSEMBLIES ENCASING CHUTE SHAFT. FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE
ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN INSTALLED.
3. 
SEE ARCHITECTURAL AND/OR STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS TO VERIFY ALL INFORMATION NOT
RELATED TO ATM'S SCOPE OF WORK PER AGREEMENT.
WALL ASSEMBLY PER
SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
EPOXY TOLAP OVERCURB ANDEXTEND
UPWARDUNDERWALL PANEL 6" (S.A.D.)
4. 
POUR RINGS WILL VARY BASED ON THICKNESS OF FLOOR SLAB AND SHALL BE PROVIDED
BY MANUFACTURER.
12"Hx6"WCONCRETE CURB WALL
PROTECTION, SEE NOTE 4
SATIN CHROME PULL
HANDLE W/ THUMB LATCH
RED OPEN BUTTON
GENERAL NOTES.
FRONT VIEW
(WITHOUTTRIM)
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE
HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS
FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
SECTION VIEW
EPOXY COVE BASE ANDEPOXY
FLOORS PERSCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2. 
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN
IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
15x18 BOTTOM-HINGED, NORMALLY CLOSED
LOW-VOLTAGE ELECTRICALLY INTERLOCKED,
AUTOMATIC OPENING INTAKE DOOR
CONCRETE SLAB
(S.S.D.)
FRONT VIEW
(WITHTRIM: 16GA. 430S.S.)
PLAN VIEW
3. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF
CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES
AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
WALL PROTECTION CONCRETE CURB
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR
AT UPPER LEVELS
1
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
3
SCALE: NTS
NOTES:
1.
NOTES:
NOTES:
1.
2HR FIRE-RATED FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN INSTALLED. FOR SOUND PROOFING
PURPOSES, DOUBLE STUD-WALLS ARE REQUIRED ADJACENT TO OCCUPIED SPACES. INTERIOR OF SHAFT SHALL BE
TAPED TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKING INTO OCCUPIED SPACES.
1. 
PROVIDE HIGH PRESSURE CHUTE WASHDOWN NOZZLE.
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES
AND NO LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
2. 
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND
SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE
CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
2. 
FILL SANITATION TANK WITH CONCENTRATED DISINFECTING SOLUTION. THE SYPHON HOSE SHOULD REACH THE BOTTOM OF THE
SOLUTION CONTAINER. TO FLUSH WITH CLEAR WATER, TURN HANDLE TO THE ON POSITION. FACTORY SETTING OF THE
PROPORTIONING VALVE IS FOR 50-GALLONS PER GALLON OF DISINFECTING SOLUTION.
3. 
NOTE THAT THE ACCESS DOOR AND D & S UNIT ARE SHOWN OUTSIDE OF CHUTE SHAFT FOR CLARITY. ALL WASHDOWN EQUIPMENT
WILL BE INSTALLED WITHIN CHUTE SHAFT, ABOVE THE HIGHEST INTAKE. (1) D & S UNIT PER CHUTE.
4. 
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES AND NO
LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
5. 
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT
REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND
OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
2
2. 
INTAKE DOOR NOT SHOWN FOR CLARITY.
4
3
2
1
5
D&SUNIT(NTS)
INSTALLEDBEHINDF.O. WALL
*WHEN CALCULATING NUMBER OF
CL
FIRE SPRINKLER HEADS FOR EVERY
OTHER FLOOR ALWAYS START WITH
HIGHEST LEVEL
6. 
SUPPLIED BY VENDOR - INSTALLED BY PLUMBER.
CL
C
L
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
FL
C
U
H
S
U
HTINEGVESNPTRAAYNDHE
A
A
B
DOVBEELO
TO
WP
8
9
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR
* FIRE SPRINKLER HEAD
AT HIGHEST LEVEL OF
BUILDING
NO CONTACT BTWN GYP BOARD, FRAMING & CHUTE.
SEAL GAP W/ FLEXIBLE ACOUSTIC RATED FIRE
CAULKING AT PENETRATION THROUGH WALL &
SHAFT, ALL AROUND
TAPE INTERIOR OF CHUTE SHAFT
TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKS
TAPE INTERIOR OF CHUTE SHAFT
TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKS
(BY OTHERS)
COAT CHUTE W/ SOUNDCOAT DAUBERT V-DAMP
3680 OR EQUIVALENT; MATCH THICKNESS OF
METAL
PLUMBING SCHEMATIC LEGEND:
1.
34"Ø DOMESTIC HOT WATER INLET WITH VACUUM BREAKER. 
(SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY
PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
6
7
15x15ACCESSDOOR(NTS) INSTALLEDBYCONTRACTOR
PRIORTOERECTINGWALL
COAT CHUTE W/ SOUNDCOAT DAUBERT V-DAMP
FIRE SPRINKLER HEAD AT HIGHEST
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAME, SEE PLAN
ANCHOR BOLTS W/ NEOPRENE GROMMETS. PROVIDE
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PADS BELOW
FRAME
ION
T
THAEKRE,FL
L
O
O
WOERST
B
EITN
W
TAEKEEN& EVERY
LEVEL 5
3680 OR EQUIVALENT; MATCH THICKNEMSS
ET
OAFL
2. 
QUARTER-TURN GATE VALVE (SHUT-OFF AND BYPASS), (2) TOTAL. (SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY
PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
3. 
PLUMBING DESIGN, MATERIALS, AND INSTALLATION BY OTHERS. (SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY
PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
4. 
24-VDC SOLENOID VALVE (OPTIONAL). NOT NEEDED FOR MANUAL OPERATION. (NOT USED
HERE).
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
CONC SLAB WHERE
OCCURS (S.S.D.)
A36FFRLAOO
ME
R, SUEEPP
P
OLRANT
CWH
A
ULTL,ESIENETAK
DE
ETADIOLSORA:B1O4V"EMA&X
N
OOPTEENSI4NG& 5FRFOOMR F.O.
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAME, SEE PLAN
HW
E
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR: 14" MAX OPENING FROM F.O.
AIGLLH,TSEREEQDUEITA
R
EILMSEANBTOSVE& NOTES 4 & 5 FOR
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
LEVEL 4
LEVEL 3
CONC SLAB WHERE
OCCURS (S.S.D.)
FIRE-RATED ACOUSTIC
FLEXIBLE SEALANT
WILKINSON TYPE-A, B-LABEL CONSTRUCTION 90 MINUTE
FIRE-RATED, HORIZONTALLY ROLLING DOOR, HELD OPEN
BY 165°F FUSIBLE LINK, SHOWN IN CLOSED POSITION
5.
D & S UNIT: 1-GALLON CONTAINER, MOUNTING BRACKET, AND PROPORTIONAL VALVE AT
CONC SLAB WHERE
OCCURS (S.S.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
REMOTE LOCATION. (SUPPLIED/MOUNTED BY CHUTE SUBCONTRACTOR. PLUMBED BY
PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
6. 
FLUSHING SPRAY HEAD BELOW CHUTE VENT. (SUPPLIED/MOUNTED BY CHUTE
SUBCONTRACTOR. PLUMBED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
7. 
FIRE SPRINKLER INTERMEDIATE 12" IPS
SPRINKLER AT HIGHEST INTAKE, LOWEST INTAKE, AND EVERY OTHER FLOOR BETWEEN, TO
BE STARTED FROM HIGHEST INTAKE CONNECTION BY OTHERS. (SUPPLIED/MOUNTED BY
CHUTE SUBCONTRACTOR. PLUMBED BY FIRE SPRINKLER SUBCONTRACTOR).
8. 
SIDE-HINGED, UL RATED 90 MINUTE B-LABEL ACCESS DOOR. (SUPPLIED BY CHUTE
SUBCONTRACTOR. INSTALLED BY FRAMING SUBCONTRACTOR OR GC).
* FIRE SPRINKLER HEAD
AT LOWEST LEVEL OF
BUILDING
9
-
TYP
DISCHARGE LEVEL
- 155°F, PENDANT GLASS BULB SPRINKLER. FIRE
-
TYP RESIDENTIAL LEVEL
EXAMPLE BUILDING
VERTICAL SECTION VIEW
9. 
SATIN CHROME PULL-HANDLE. (SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY CHUTE MANUFACTURE).
CHUTE AIR & SOUND ISOLATION
DISINFECTING & SANITATION UNIT
AT HIGHEST INTAKE W/ FIRE SPRINKLERS
CHUTE SHAFT AT INTAKE
5
6
SCALE: NTS
8
SCALE: NTS
UPPER LEVELS
NOTES:
NOTES:
1.
NOTES:
1. 
REFER TO MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL OTHER INFORMATION NOT LISTED.
2. 
(4) MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PAD ASSEMBLIES PER FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME.
ATTACHMENT OF ALL BLOCKING, CURBS, AND OTHER ROOF COMPONENTS SHALL BE DESIGNED AND INSTALLED
TO MEET THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF MANUFACTURER.
1.
TYPE I FLOOR: TO PREVENT CONCRETE BREAK-OFF, VERIFY MINIMUM DISTANCE WITH STRUCTURAL ENGINEER.
2. 
ARCHITECT SHALL VERIFY ALL FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME ANCHORING CONNECTIONS WITH RECOMMENDATIONS IN ACOUSTICS REPORT.
2. 
SEE ARCHITECTURAL AND/OR STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL WORK BY OTHERS.
3. 
SUPPLIED BY VENDOR - INSTALLED BY ROOFER.
NOTES:
1. 
ALLHARDWAREPLATED
2. 
REFERTOMANUFACTURERSSPECIFICATIONSFOR
ALLOTHERINFORMATIONNOTINCLUDED.
12"Ø HOLES FOR 3 8"Ø
ANCHOR BOLTS (2) TOTAL
PER ASSEMBLY
ASTM A307 516-18UNCx1 CAP SCREW W/
STANDARD WASHER NEOPRENE
3 8"Ø x 3" RED HEAD OR HILTI KB3 POST-INSTALLED
ASTM A307 516-18UNCx1 CAP SCREW W/
STANDARD WASHER NEOPRENE
1(24) TOTAL PER ASSEMBLY
"Ø x 4" HEX HEAD LAG SCREW
&
&
GROMMET, (1) TOTAL PER ASSEMBLY
GROMMET, (1) TOTAL PER ASSEMBLY
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAME, SEE PLAN
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAME, SEE PLAN
15
-
15
-
VENT CAP BY OTHERS SEE
NOTE 3
CL
1-3/8"
1-5/8"
*SOUND CONSULTANT TO VERIFY DETAILS
AND UPDATE AS NECESSARY*
3"
2"
RISER BY OTHERS
BRIDGE-BEARING
QUALITY NEOPRENE
CONC SLAB WHERE
OCCURS (S.S.D.)
BRIDGE-BEARING
QUALITY NEOPRENE
SEE NOTE 3
1-3/8"
1-5/8" 
4-1/4"
PLYWOOD SUBFLOOR
BY OTHERS (S.S.D.)
CURB BY OTHERS SEE
34"
2-1/2"
3/16"
DUCTILE IRON HOUSING
DUCTILE IRON HOUSING
NOTE 3
EDGE OF FLOOR OPENING:
TYPE FLOOR
ROOF FRAMING/ ASSEMBLY BY
FLOOR2SUP2POR4
A36 L11 "x11 "x1
FRAME TYP
x
T
SQ.
I
2-1/2" 
34"
OTHERS (S.S.D.)
NOTE THAT THIS IS AN EXAMPLE CHUTE
SHAFT. YOUR CHUTE SHAFT MAY VARY.
REFER TO CHUTE VESTIBULE LAYOUTS ON
SHEETS T0.1 & T0.2 FOR SPECIFIC
INFORMATION.
PROVIDE MASON BRA-RED SOUND
ISOLATION PADS BELOW FRAME
PROVIDE MASON BRA-RED SOUND
ISOLATION PADS BELOW FRAME
ROOF LEVEL
EDGE OF CHUTE
SCALE: NTS
MASON BRA-RED MOUNT
RIM JOISTS BY
OTHERS (S.S.D.)
ISOMETRIC VIEW
TYPE I FLOOR
CONNECTION
TYPE III FLOOR
CONNECTION
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING
SYSTEM. 
STUD-212ES-23( TYP AT
2 LAYERS OF 58" SHEET
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME ANCHORING
TYPE I AND TYPE III CONSTRUCTION
CHUTE VENT
AT ROOF LEVEL
E
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING
SYSTEM. STUD-212ES-23( TYP AT
EACH SIDE OF WALL, BY OTHER)
ROCK RECOMMENDED
FOR 2HR RATED WALL,
OR EQUIVALENT.
EACH SIDE OF WALL, BY OTHER)
2 LAYERS OF 5 8" SHEET
E
9
10
SCALE: NTS
ROCK RECOMMENDED
FOR 2HR RATED WALL,
OR EQUIVALENT.
ACOUSTICAL INSULATION. REFER TO
ACOUSTICAL REPORT FOR
LOCATION R-19 MIN. BATT
INSULATION PER SPECIFICATIONS
AT CONDITIONED AREAS.(BY OTHER)
ACOUSTICAL INSULATION. REFER TO
ACOUSTICAL REPORT FOR
LOCATION R-19 MIN. BATT
INSULATION PER SPECIFICATIONS
AT CONDITIONED AREAS.(BY OTHER)
J-RUNNER / J-STRUT 212JR-23
34" CONDUIT FOR AIR
COMPRESSOR
J-RUNNER / J-STRUT 212JR-23
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING SYSTEM
(CHANNEL AT TOP AND BOTTOM)(BY
OTHER)
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING SYSTEM
(CHANNEL AT TOP AND BOTTOM)(BY
OTHER)
34" CONDUIT FOR AIR
COMPRESSOR
SPRINKLER RISER
(TBD BY FIRE SPRINKLER
DESIGNER)
SPRINKLER RISER
(TBD BY FIRE SPRINKLER
DESIGNER)
1" THICK GYPSUM LINER PANEL
(UL TYPE SLXTM) (BY OTHER)
WATER LINE FOR WASHDOWN
RISER IF NOT PROVIDED
ABOVE HIGHEST INTAKE (TBD
BY PLUMBING)
WATER LINE FOR WASHDOWN
RISER IF NOT PROVIDED
ABOVE HIGHEST INTAKE (TBD
BY PLUMBING)
1" THICK GYPSUM LINER PANEL
(UL TYPE SLXT M ) (BY OTHER)
CH METAL STUD (2-1/2") 212CH -23
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING SYSTEM
(24" O.C TYP) (BY OTHER)
CH METAL STUD (2-1/2") 212CH -23
USG SHAFT WALL FRAMING SYSTEM
(24" O.C TYP) (BY OTHER)
DO NOT INSTALL THIS
FRONT PORTION OF
THE WALL UNTIL
AFTER CHUTES ARE
INSTALLED.
DO NOT INSTALL THIS
FRONT PORTION OF
THE WALL UNTIL
AFTER CHUTES ARE
INSTALLED.
1/2" EMT TO
WASHDOWN SOLENOID
ABOVE HIGHEST
INTAKE. (OPTIONAL)
112"Ø HOLES (5) (TYP)
ANCHOR PAD. SEE
DETAIL 9.
112"Ø HOLES (5) (TYP)
1/2" EMT TO
WASHDOWN SOLENOID
ABOVE HIGHEST
INTAKE. (OPTIONAL)
(2) LAYERS
RATED MOLD AND MOISTURE
5 8" TYPE "X GWB" OR5 8" IRE
(2) LAYERS
RATED MOLD AND MOISTURE
RESISTANT GYP BD. 
BATHS
KITCHENS AND 8" DENARMOR
LOCATIONS (BY OTHER)
58" TYPE "X GWB" OR 58" IRE
&
1V"OELMT TA GF EO RP OL OWWE R
KITCHENS AND
RESISTANT GYP BD.
5 8" DENARMOR
@BATHS
@TUB
&
@
LOCATIONS (BY OTHER)
5
@ TUB
1" EMT FOR LOW
VOLTAGE POWER
ANCHOR PAD SEE
DETAIL 9.
TYPE I SHAFT
TYPE III SHAFT
MINIMUM CHUTE SHAFT DETAILS
PLAN VIEWS
TR2.0
15
SCALE: NTS
As Indicated
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
June 23, 2023
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
consultingprojects@trashmanage.com
346 of 517

--- page 347 ---
Page 1 of 2 
ATTACHMENT 5 – PROJECT DATA SHEET 
NAME: 477 9th Avenue, SPAR-SDPA-SUP 
PA: 2022-047 
ADDRESS:  477 9th Avenue 
LAND AREA:  69,976 sq. ft. 
(1.6 acres) 
ZONING: E2-2 
LAND USE: Executive Office 
APN: 033-281-130 
PROPOSED 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
FLOOR AREA 
Office (Existing: 21,601 sq. ft.) 
Residential (units, lobby, amenities) 
Parking Garage 
TOTAL: 
 29,207 sq. ft. 
 122,214 sq. ft. 
57,783 sq. ft. 
209,204 sq. ft. 
139,952 sq. ft. 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): 
3.01 
2.0 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
Plate line: 
Roof and/or parapet peak: 
53’-6” 
55’-8” / 65’-0” 
55’-0” (plate line) 
- 
STORIES 
5 
- 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
Base Density: 
Density Bonus: 
Total: 
50 units/ac. 
50% of Base Density 
75 units/ac. 
50 units/ac. 
50% of Base Density 
75 units/ac. 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS: 
Base Density: 
Density Bonus: 
Total: 
80 
40 
120 
80 
40 
120 
RESIDENTIAL UNIT MIX: 
Studio 
1-bedroom 
2-bedroom 
24 units (2 BMR)2 
64 units (7 BMR)2 
32 units (3 BMR)2 
- 
- 
- 
PROPOSED 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
DWELLING STANDARDS 
Studio 
1-bedroom 
2-bedroom 
543 sq. ft. 
657 sq. ft. – 808 sq. ft. 
911 sq. ft. – 1,150 sq. ft. 
350 sq. ft. 
540 sq. ft. 
750 sq. ft. 
SETBACKS: 
Front (S. Claremont St.): 
Street Side (9th Ave.): 
Interior Side (northwest): 
Rear (Railroad):  
7’-6” 
7’-6” 
25’-0” 
40’-0” 
7’-6” 
7’-6” 
None 
40’-0” (easement) 
PARKING: 
Residential: 
General Office: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
112 stalls 
38 stalls 
150 stalls 
- 
- 
None Required3 
COVERED PARKING: 
141 stalls 
None Required3 
LOADING SPACES (min. 10 ft. x 25 ft.) 
1 
1 
BICYCLE PARKING: 
Residential: 
Office: 
TOTAL BICYCLE PARKING: 
Short-Term 
8 
4 
12 
Long-Term 
128 
4 
132 
Short-Term 
8 
1 
9 
Long-Term 
128 
3 
131 
OPEN SPACE (At-grade): 
15% (10,486 sq. ft.)4 
20% (13,995.2 sq. ft.) 
LOT COVERAGE: 
68% (47,550 sq. ft.) 
80% (55,980.8 sq. ft.) 
See next page for comments and notes. 
347 of 517

--- page 348 ---
Page 2 of 2 
 
ATTACHMENT 4 – PROJECT DATA TABLE 
 
NOTES 
 
1. 
The project requests a Waiver to exceed floor area ratio limits pursuant to State Density Bonus law. 
2. 
The City’s Below Market Rate (BMR) Inclusionary Program requires rental projects of 11 or more units to provide a 
minimum of 15 percent of the proposed units to be devoted to the Lower Income category. The applicant proposes to 
designate twelve units (15 percent of the base density) as affordable at the Very Low-income level, which includes a 
proposed mix of two studio units, seven one-bedroom units, and three two-bedroom units. 
3. 
Assembly Bill (AB) 2097, effective January 1, 2023, prohibits the City from imposing parking requirements for projects 
within one-half mile of a major public transit stop. 
4. 
The project requests a Concession for reduced at-grade open space pursuant to State Density Bonus law. 
 
 
 
348 of 517

--- page 349 ---
L-5.2
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
1.
See Tree Disposition Plan for trees to be removed and to remain.
2.
Refer to Arborist Report page 8, 9, 10 and Landscape sheets L5.6, L5.7, L-5.17 & L-5.18 for Tree
protection requirement.
3.
Refer to Arborist Report for other tree disposition notes and recommendations.
TREE PROTECTION/DISPOSITION NOTES
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
349 of 517

--- page 350 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.3
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
350 of 517

--- page 351 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.4
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
351 of 517

--- page 352 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.5
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
352 of 517

--- page 353 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.6
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
353 of 517

--- page 354 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.7
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
354 of 517

--- page 355 ---
L-5.8
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
355 of 517

--- page 356 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.9
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
356 of 517

--- page 357 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.10
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
357 of 517

--- page 358 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.11
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
358 of 517

--- page 359 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.12
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
359 of 517

--- page 360 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.13
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
360 of 517

--- page 361 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.14
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
361 of 517

--- page 362 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.15
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
362 of 517

--- page 363 ---
JUNE 23, 2023
477 9TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute original, and unpublished work of the architect and may not be duplicated, used or disclosed without the written consent of the architect.
THE
*8==ARDO
PARTNERSHIP INC.
LanGVFaSe ArFKiteFtV
LanG PlannerV
Date
P
a
u
l
T
.
L
e
t
t
i
e
r
i
N
o
.
1
9
1
8
Renewal Date
06-30-23
S
T
A
T
E
O
F
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
NI
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
06.02.23
L-5.16
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND LEGENDS
363 of 517

--- page 364 ---
1 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
 
 
MEMORANDUM 
Date 
November 6, 2023 
To 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡, Associate Planner (City of San Mateo, Planning Department) 
From 
Natalie Noyes, Senior Project Manager 
Akoni Danielsen, Principal Project Manager 
Subject 
477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use – CEQA Categorical Exemption Qualification 
 
I. 
Categorical Exemptions 
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines contain classes of projects that have 
been determined not to have a significant effect on the environment and are, therefore, exempt 
from the provisions of CEQA. CEQA Guidelines Sections 15301 – 15333 constitute the list of 
categorically exempt projects and contain specific criteria that must be met in order for a project to 
be found exempt. Additionally, CEQA Guidelines Section 15300.2 includes a list of exceptions to 
exemptions, none of which may apply to a project in order for it to qualify for a categorical 
exemption (i.e., if an exception applies, a project is precluded from being found categorically 
exempt). 
 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15332 In-Fill Development Projects sets forth criteria for projects 
characterized as in-fill development, meeting the following conditions: 
 
a. The project is consistent with all applicable general plan and zoning designations, policies, 
and regulations; 
b. The proposed development occurs with city limits on a project site of no more than five 
acres substantially surrounded by urban uses1; 
c. The project site has no habitat value for endangered, rare, or threatened species; 
d. Approval of the project would not result in any significant effects related to traffic, noise, 
air or water quality; and 
e. The site can be adequately served by all required utilities and public services. 
 
1 The Office of Planning and Research defines in-fill development as buildings within unused and underutilized 
lands within existing development patterns, typically but not exclusively in urban areas. Source: Office of Planning 
and Research. “Infill Development”. Accessed June 8, 2023. https://opr.ca.gov/planning/land-use/infill-
development/ 
364 of 517

--- page 365 ---
2 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
The City of San Mateo, serving as the Lead Agency, is completing environmental review for the 477 
9th Avenue Mixed-Use project (“project”) in compliance with CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines (California 
Code of Regulations Section 15000 et. seq.) and the regulations and policies of the City of San 
Mateo, California. This Exemption Memorandum describes the proposed project and provides 
evidence to a support a determination by the City of San Mateo that the project would be eligible 
for a Categorical Exemption under CEQA. 
 
II. Project Site Location and Existing Setting 
The approximately 69,976 square-foot (equivalent to approximately 1.6-acres) rectangular site is 
located at 477 9th Avenue in San Mateo, California at the northwest intersection of South 
Claremont Street and 9th Avenue. The site is currently developed with an approximately 21,600 
square-foot single-story office building and associated surface parking lot. The site is bordered by 
South Claremont Street to the east, 9th Avenue to the south, the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) to 
the west, and an office building to the north. Immediate uses adjacent to the site and in the 
surrounding area include office, food and automotive service, and a garden nursery, with single- 
and multi-family residential and retail uses located further from the site in all directions. Refer to 
Figure 1, Figure 2, and Figure 3 for regional, vicinity, and aerial maps of the project site, 
respectively. 
 
III. General Plan and Zoning 
The project site has an Executive Office General Plan land use designation and is zoned E2-2, 
Executive Office. The Executive Office designation and zoning district are intended primarily for 
office uses but allow for residential, health and recreation, public utility, research laboratories 
(without production and manufacturing), restaurants (without drive-throughs), schools and daycare 
facilities, and storage and distribution uses. Densities of up to 50 units per acre, floor area ratios 
(FAR) up to 2.0, and building heights up to 55 feet are allowed on Executive Office E2-2 sites. The 
project is located within the Downtown Area Plan, South Claremont Sub Area. 
 
IV. Project Description  
The proposed project would demolish the existing 21,600 square-foot office building and surface 
parking lot, and construct a five-story, approximately 209,204 gross square-foot mixed-use office 
and residential building with a maximum height of 55 feet and an FAR of 2.98. The building would 
include 120 dwelling units and approximately 29,207 square-feet of office space. The project would 
reserve 15 percent of base density units for very low-income households and therefore would 
qualify for a density bonus of 50 percent under the California State Density Bonus Law (California 
Government Code Sections 65915 – 65918), which equates to a maximum of 12 units.2 The project 
site plan is shown on Figure 4 and the building section and elevation is shown on Figure 5.  
 
2 The calculation is based on the project’s base density. 
365 of 517

--- page 366 ---
101
101
101
82
84
82
92
92
92
35
1
280
280
San Francisco Bay
San Bruno
Millbrae
Burlingame
Foster City
San Mateo
Belmont
San Carlos
Redwood City
Half Moon Bay
South San
Francisco
San Bruno
Millbrae
Burlingame
Foster City
San Mateo
Belmont
San Carlos
Redwood City
Half Moon Bay
South San
Francisco
Project Site
REGIONAL MAP
FIGURE 1
0
1
.5
0
1
.5
5 Miles
5 Miles
Pacific Ocean
Monterey Bay
San José
Fremont
Oakland
San Francisco
Santa Cruz
Morgan Hill
San José
Fremont
Campbell
Oakland
San Francisco
Daly City
Daly City
Santa Cruz
Mountain
View
Mountain
View
Redwood
City
Redwood
City
Morgan Hill
Project Site
Project Site
366 of 517

--- page 367 ---
QG $YH
6 % 6W
( WK $YH
DOGZLQ $YH
( UG $YH
( WK $YH
0LVVLRQ 5G
&HQWUDO 3DUN
6 % 6W
6 5DLOURDG $YH
6 *UDQW 6W
6 )UHPRQW 6W
WK $YH
WK $YH
( WK $YH
6 ,GDKR 6W
6 +XPEROGW 6W
6 (OGRUDGR 6W
WK $YH
6 $PSKOHWW %OYG
6 &ODUHPRQW 6W
6 'HODZDUH 6W
( WK $YH
6 % 6W
6 5DLOURDG $YH
6XQQ\EUDH %OYG
( 
WK $YH
%LUFK $YH
WK $YH
6 &ODUHPRQW 6W
YH
0D
JQR
OLD
'U
Laurel Ave
Hayward Ave
Rosewood Dr
Laurel Ave
Hayward Ave
Rosewood Dr
S Delaware St
S Delaware St
San 
Mateo 
Dr
San
Mateo
Dr
El Camino Real
El Camino Real
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
82
82
101
6
ZLQ $
Q $
Q $
Q $YH
$YH
$YH
$Y
$Y
$YH
YH
YH
Base Map: ESRI, ArcGIS
0
100
400
600
1,000 Feet
Project Site
VICINITY MAP
FIGURE 2
367 of 517

--- page 368 ---
Commercial &
Light Industrial
Commercial &
Light Industrial
Office
Office
Commercial
Commercial
Commercial
Commercial
South Railroad Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
9th Avenue
10th Avenue
9th Avenue
8th Avenue
7th Avenue
7th Avenue
6th Avenue
South B Street
South B Street
Laurel Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Claremont Street
South Delaware Street
South Eldorado Street
9th Avenue
10th Avenue
9th Avenue
8th Avenue
7th Avenue
7th Avenue
6th Avenue
South B Street
South B Street
Laurel Avenue
South Claremont Street
South Claremont Street
South Delaware Street
South Eldorado Street
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
U.P.R.R.
Aerial Source: Google Earth Pro, Oct. 27, 2022.
Photo Date: Sep. 2021
0
50
200
300
500 Feet
Project Boundary
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH AND SURROUNDING LAND USES
FIGURE 3
368 of 517

--- page 369 ---
Source: BDE Architecture, June 23, 2023.
0
30
60 Feet
15
PROJECT SITE PLAN – GROUND FLOOR
FIGURE 4
369 of 517

--- page 370 ---
Source: BDE Architecture, June 23, 2023.














%/'*+(,*+7
*$5$*(
*$5$*(
*$5$*(
/2%%<
/($6,1*0$,/
6
6
6
$
$
$
&2857<$5'
/21*7(50%,.(
6725$*(
/21*7(50%,.(
6725$*(
(/(&7
751)505
$
$
$
$
$
$
*$5$*(
2)),&(
0(&+(48,3
:$/.,1*3$'
62/$5=21(
&216758&7,21
7<3(,$
&216758&7,21
7<3(9$























2)),&(
2)),&(
*$5$*(
*$5$*(
*$5$*(
*$5$*(
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
/281*(
0(&+(48,3
:$/.,1*3$'
62/$55($'<
=21(
&216758&7,21
7<3(9$
&216758&7,21
7<3(,$
BUILDING SECTION - LONGITUDINAL
BUILDING SECTION - CROSS
SECTION AT PARKING RAMP
60’-0”
T.O. HIGH ROOF
59’-4”
T.O. PARAPET
54’-6”
ROOF
53’-6”
T.O. PLATE
44’-4”
FLOOR 5
34’-2”
FLOOR 4
60’-0”
T.O. HIGH ROOF
59’-4”
T.O. PARAPET
54’-6”
ROOF
53’-6”
T.O. PLATE (BLDG HT)
44’-4”
FLOOR 5
34’-2”
FLOOR 4
24’-0”
FLOOR 3
12’-0”
FLOOR 2
0”
FLOOR 1
24’-0”
FLOOR 3
12’-0”
FLOOR 2
0”
FLOOR 1
BUILDING ELEVATION AND SECTION DIAGRAM
FIGURE 5
370 of 517

--- page 371 ---
8 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Building Summary 
Floors one and two of the proposed building would incorporate a two-level enclosed parking garage 
(discussed in greater detail in the following section), along with office space and residential 
amenities. The ground floor would include a 3,262 square-foot leasing office and 13,588 square-feet 
of office space. The design of the ground level of the proposed building also includes two electrical 
rooms and two transformer rooms along the northern façade, an 85-horsepower (hp) fire pump 
generator in the northeast corner, and a boiler room located on the interior of the parking garage 
near the northeastern corner. Floor two would include a 1,765 square-foot fitness center and 
13,313 square-feet of office space. In the center of the third floor would be an open air atrium that 
would provide a 8,944 square-foot outdoor courtyard located on the top of the second floor garage. 
Floors three through five would include 120 dwelling units, including 24 studio, 64 one-bedroom, 
and 32 two-bedroom units. 15 percent of the base density or 10 percent of the total proposed 
residential units (equivalent to 12 units) would be restricted to very-low income residents. The unit 
sizes would range from 543 to 1,150 square-feet, with the total rentable residential square-footage 
amounting to 94,434 square-feet. Residential amenities would also include a 2,639 square-foot 
indoor lounge on the third floor and a 760 square-foot club area on the fifth floor. The southern 
corner of the roof of the proposed building would provide a 650 square-foot outdoor roof deck area 
for residents.  
 
Site Access and Parking 
The project site would be accessible via two driveways, with one located on 9th Avenue and one 
located on South Claremont Street. Both driveways would provide access to the aforementioned 
parking garage (141 spaces) and a surface parking lot (9 spaces) along the western property line 
that would provide a total of 150 parking spaces. The two-level parking garage would provide 54 
spaces on the first floor (29 office spaces, 25 residential spaces) and 87 residential spaces on the 
second floor, for a total of 150 spaces. Within the first-floor parking garage and office, the building 
would provide 132 long-term bicycle parking spaces in secured bike rooms. Bike racks providing 12 
short-term bicycle parking spaces are proposed along the building entrances on 9th Avenue. 
 
Transportation Demand Management 
The City of San Mateo’s Sustainable Streets Final Plan (SSP) requires that all new developments 
within the Downtown core submit a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) with a trip 
reduction target of 25 percent. However, the SSP has not been formally adopted and the guidelines   
are encouraged rather than required. In addition, the City/County Association of Governments of 
San Mateo County’s (C/CAG) TDM Policy Implementation Guide requires projects estimated to 
generate at least 100 average daily trips (ADT) to demonstrate a 25 percent trip reduction through 
TDM measures. The project would be required to implement a TDM Plan to encourage automobile-
alternative modes of transportation and reduce vehicle trips to and from the site by 25 percent. The 
TDM Plan includes specific measures to be implemented by the project, including TDM education 
371 of 517

--- page 372 ---
9 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
programs, providing bike support and repair facilities, subsidizing active transportation and e-bikes, 
providing transit passes, and implementing carshare, carpool, and vanpool programs.  
 
Stormwater Management and Landscaping 
The proposed project would increase impervious surfaces on-site from 54,955 square-feet to 
64,377 square-feet, and reduce pervious surfaces from 15,021 square-feet to 5,600 square-feet. 
Stormwater runoff at the site would be managed and treated through the use of self-treating 
pervious areas, bioretention planters, and silva cells3. Collected stormwater would percolate 
belowground or be routed to bioretention planter or silva cell before discharging to the City storm 
drain at the intersection of 9th Avenue and South Claremont Street.  
 
There are a total of 49 trees onsite, including protected, heritage, and street trees. The project 
would remove 32 protected trees, including seven heritage trees. All trees removed would be 
replaced in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.71. Landscaping in that it would consist of 
drought-tolerant trees, plants, and grasses suitable for San Mateo’s climate zone (Sunset Zone #17), 
and irrigation would be required to comply with the City's Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance. 
 
Utilities  
Utility services to the proposed project would be provided by the City of San Mateo (storm drain, 
sanitary sewer), California Water Bayshore District (water service), and Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) 
(electricity). The project would install new laterals and electrical connections that would tie into 
existing utility lines located in South Claremont Street and 9th Avenue. 
 
Construction  
Construction of the project is anticipated to last approximately 21 months, with demolition and 
construction estimated to begin in 2024. Construction phases of the proposed project would 
include site clearing and demolition, utility connections, building construction, frontage 
improvements, and landscaping. Consistent with Section 7.30.060 of the City’s Municipal Code, 
construction would take place between 7 a.m.–7 p.m. on weekdays and 9 a.m.–5 p.m. on Saturdays. 
The project would limit construction on Saturdays to the extent feasible. Construction on Sundays 
or holidays is not anticipated. The project would not import any soil, and would export 4,700 cubic 
yards (cy) of soil associated with construction of the building footings, grading, and trenching 
activities, which would extend to a depth of six feet.4 
 
The applicant shall submit a site logistics plan for each phase of construction. The plan, at a 
minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, and construction 
 
3 Silva cells are a type of suspended pavement to support large tree growth and provide on-site stormwater 
management through absorption, evapotranspiration, and interception. 
4 Consistent with CalEEMod methodology, this corresponds to 294 truckloads of soil export based on 16 cy of soil 
per load. 
372 of 517

--- page 373 ---
10 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
operations. The applicant shall also submit traffic control plans for any impact to the right-of-way 
for each phase of construction, including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The 
traffic control plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices and the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements. 
 
V. Environmental Review 
The purpose of this section is to document whether any of the exceptions listed in CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15300.2 apply to the project, and assess the project’s eligibility for a Categorical Exemption 
from CEQA under Section 15332 (Class 32) In-Fill Development Projects. 
 
Section 15300.2 – Exceptions 
(a) Location. Classes 3, 4, 5, 6, and 11 are qualified by consideration of where the project is to 
be located – a project that is ordinarily insignificant in its impact on the environment may 
in a particularly sensitive environment be significant. Therefore, these classes are 
considered to apply all instances, except where the project may impact on an 
environmental resource of hazardous or critical concern where designated, precisely 
mapped, and officially adopted pursuant to law by federal, state, or local agencies. 
 
This exception only applies to Class 3, 4, 5, 6, and 11 exemptions. The proposed project is 
categorically exempt under Class 32; therefore, this exception is not applicable to the project under 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15300.2(a). 
 
(b) Cumulative Impact. All exemptions for these classes are inapplicable when the cumulative 
impact of successive projects of the same type in the same place, over time is significant. 
 
There are no agricultural, forestry, or mineral resources present on-site or in the surrounding area; 
therefore, the project would not have any cumulative impacts as pertains to these resources. 
Within the localized area of effect (immediately adjacent), there are no approved or future projects 
that are reasonably foreseeable. Therefore, as pertains to localized environmental factors, 
specifically, aesthetics, biological and cumulative resources, geology and soils, hydrology and water 
quality, and noise and vibration, the project would have no cumulative impacts.  
 
Within 1,000 to 1,320 feet of the project site, the cumulative area of effect for air quality and 
hazards/hazardous materials, there is one mixed-use commercial and residential development 
(“Nazareth Vista”) located approximately 480 feet west of the site at 616 South B Street. The 
construction and operation of the Nazareth Vista project was accounted for in the cumulative Air 
Quality analysis provided below, which concluded that the cumulative conditions from both 
projects would not result in a significant effect on air quality. With regard to hazardous materials, 
616 South B Street is not listed on any lists compiled pursuant to Section 65962.5 of the 
Government Code, and the proposed uses on both project sites do not generate hazardous 
emissions or involve the handling of any acutely hazardous materials. Therefore, the project would 
373 of 517

--- page 374 ---
11 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
not have a cumulative impact with regard to air quality or hazardous materials in conjunction with 
the Nazareth Vista project. Other projects in the vicinity, such as the new public parking garage at 
5thAve/Claremont St. and the affordable housing project at 4th Ave/Claremont St., would not have 
overlapping construction schedules with the subject project. 
 
The project would not have a cumulative impact on land use and planning or population and 
housing, since there is no existing housing on-site and the project is consistent with the site’s 
General Plan land use designation. The project would be allowed to develop 69,252 square feet 
above the allowable square footage per the City’s zoning requirements with the adherence of the 
State Density Bonus requirements.5 The San Mateo 2030 General Plan EIR anticipated major 
development to occur in the Downtown area, including new residential, office, retail, and mixed-
use development as the availability of goods and services, walkability, and public transportation 
services continue to improve and expand, and found that buildout of the General Plan would have a 
less than significant land use and planning impact. The additional FAR would not contribute to a 
cumulative impact since the project proposes a mix of land uses at the project site within the 
downtown area, the project would be consistent with the General Plan policies to increase housing 
by providing mixed-use buildings within the downtown area (General Plan policy LU-1.8). 
 
The project would also not have a cumulative impact on traffic, since the analysis of the project’s 
individual impacts on traffic provided below in Section 15332(d) factored in trips generated by 
existing, approved, and reasonably foreseeable future development through the year 2040 (refer to 
Appendix A).  
 
The analysis of the project’s impact on utilities and public services provided below, which 
determined that the project would not have a significant effect on these resources. Further, the San 
Mateo 2030 General Plan EIR found that buildout of the General Plan (including the project) would 
not result in cumulative impacts to public services or utilities.  
 
Because a project’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions do not have localized impacts, but instead 
contribute to the global climate change effect, a project’s GHG impact is inherently cumulative. 
GHG impacts are analyzed using the Bay Area Air Quality Management District’s (BAAQMD) CEQA 
Air Quality Guidelines, which are intended to serve as a guide for those who prepare or evaluate air 
quality impact analyses for projects and plans in the San Francisco Bay Area. The jurisdictions in the 
San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin (which encompasses San Mateo) utilize the thresholds and 
methodology for assessing GHG impacts developed by BAAQMD within the CEQA Air Quality 
Guidelines. The guidelines include information on legal requirements, BAAQMD rules, methods of 
analyzing impacts, and recommended mitigation measures. 
 
 
5 The project qualifies for a density bonus of 50 percent under the California State Density Bonus Law and 
therefore proposes a FAR of 2.98. Under the allowed FAR (2.0), the project would be permitted to develop 139,952 
square feet. 
374 of 517

--- page 375 ---
12 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines also include thresholds of significance for greenhouse 
gas emissions. For land use projects, BAAQMD developed plan- and project-level thresholds that 
evaluate the significance of operational GHG emissions based on its effect on the State’s efforts to 
meet the identified long-term climate goals. Projects that comply with an adopted GHG Reduction 
Strategy are considered to have less than significant GHG impacts. The City’s 2020 Climate Action 
Plan (CAP) is a qualified GHG Reduction Strategy. The CAP identifies a strategy, reduction measures, 
and implementation actions the City will use to achieve targets consistent with state 
recommendations of 4.3 metric tons of CO2e (MTCO2e) per person by 2030 and 1.2 MTCO2e per 
person by 2050. GHG emissions generated by operation of the proposed project were estimated 
using CalEEMod and compared to the City of San Mateo’s 4.3 MTCO2e per person threshold (refer 
to Appendix B). The project’s estimated GHG emissions (1.88 MTCO2e) would not exceed the 2030 
service population threshold of 4.3 MTCO2e/year/service population. Therefore, operation of the 
project would not generate significant GHG emissions. 
 
For the reasons outlined above, the cumulative impact exclusion does not apply to the project. 
 
(c) Significant Effect. A categorical exemption shall not be used for an activity where there is 
a reasonable possibility that the activity will have a significant effect on the environment 
due to unusual circumstances. 
 
The proposed project does not include any elements that are atypical for a mixed-use office and 
residential development in a downtown area. The proposed uses are consistent with office and 
residential uses that are present throughout the surrounding area in all directions. Further, the 
project site itself does not contain any unusual characteristics. As documented below, the site is not 
on any lists compiled pursuant to Section 65962.5 of the Government Code or mapped within a 
Very High Wildfire Hazard Zone, there are no historic resources on-site or nearby historic districts, 
and there is no habitat for endangered, rare or threatened species. The project site is also mapped 
by the City within a “Low Sensitivity Zone” for archaeological resources, and any undiscovered 
subsurface archaeological (including tribal cultural) or paleontological resources present would be 
required to be protected with adherence to the conditions of approval identified in Subsection D. 
Project Description, above. Given that the site is fully developed with office uses and a surface 
parking lot within a heavily urbanized area, there are no agricultural, forestry, or mineral resources 
present on-site. Further, a Geotechnical Investigation (dated April 26, 2022) prepared by Rockridge 
Geotechnical (refer to Appendix C) for the project determined that there were no unique or unusual 
geological issues that would prevent development of the site as proposed. As discussed under 
Section 15332 – In-Fill Development Projects below, the project would not have any significant 
effects on traffic, noise/vibration, air or water quality, utilities, or public services. Therefore, there 
are no unusual circumstances present that could result in the project having a significant effect on 
the environment, and the significant impact due to unusual circumstances exclusion does not apply 
to the project.   
 
 
 
375 of 517

--- page 376 ---
13 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
(d) Scenic Highways. A categorical exemption shall not be used for a project which may result 
in damage to scenic resources, including but not limited to, trees, historic buildings, rock 
outcroppings, or similar resources, within a highway officially designated as a state scenic 
highway. This does not apply to improvements which are required as mitigation by an 
adopted negative declaration or certified EIR. 
 
The nearest officially designated state scenic highway is a segment of Interstate 280 (I-280) located 
approximately three miles southwest of the project site.6 The project site is not visible from I-280, 
and therefore would not damage scenic resources within a state scenic highway, and the Scenic 
Highways exception does not apply to the proposed project. 
 
(e) Hazardous Waste Sites. A categorical exemption shall not be used for a project located on 
a site which is included on any list compiled pursuant to Section 65962.5 of the 
Government Code. 
 
The project site is not included on any lists compiled pursuant to Section 65962.5 of the 
Government Code. 7 Therefore, the hazardous waste sites exception does not apply to the project. 
 
(f) Historical Resources. A categorical exemption shall not be used for a project which may 
cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of a historical resource. 
 
The existing office building was constructed in early 1980s and is less than 50 years. There are no 
historic resources on or adjacent to the project site that are listed on the National Register of 
Historic Places, California Register of Historic Places, or the City of San Mateo Historic Resources 
Map.[8][9][10] Therefore, the historical resources exception does not apply to the project. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
(a) Archaeological Resources. In the event of the discovery of archaeological resources 
whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 50 feet of the find, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, 
and retain a qualified archaeologist. The archaeologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the 
find, and propose recommendations for continuing construction to protect the find in 
consultation with the appropriate Native American tribes, and submit a summary of 
findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate these recommendations 
 
6 California Department of Transportation. “California State Scenic Highway System Map”. Accessed June 27, 2023. 
https://caltrans.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=465dfd3d807c46cc8e8057116f1aacaa.  
7 California Environmental Protection Agency. “Cortese List Data Resources”. Accessed June 27, 2023. 
https://calepa.ca.gov/sitecleanup/corteselist/.  
8 National Park Service. “National Register of Historic Places”. Accessed June 27, 2023. 
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/nationalregister/database-research.htm#table.  
9 California Office of Historic Preservation. “California Historical Resources”. Accessed June 27, 2023. 
https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/ListedResources/?view=county&criteria=41.   
10 City of San Mateo. City of San Mateo Historic Resources Figure C/OS-5. April 2022.  
376 of 517

--- page 377 ---
14 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
into project construction. A final report detailing how these recommendations were met 
shall be provided prior to occupancy. 
 
(b) Cultural Resources. In the event of the discovery of human remains whether on-site in the 
public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all activity within 50 feet of the discovery and 
notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner. The applicant shall also immediately 
notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a determination made as to whether the 
remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the cause of death 
is required. Treatment of human remains and any associated or unassociated funerary 
objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within the project site shall comply 
with applicable State laws. If the remains are determined to be Native American, the 
Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once 
the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the descendants will make 
recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance with 
Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. 
 
(c) Cultural Resources Monitor. Should construction monitoring be required, the applicant shall 
submit a scope of work with a cultural resources monitor as prescribed by the 
Archaeological Monitoring Plan. The scope of work shall indicate that, in the event of a 
discovery, the monitor: 
o Has stop-work authority to halt all construction activities; 
o Will notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner; 
o Will evaluate the discovery to determine whether additional treatment is 
warranted; and, 
o Will determine adequacy of the evaluation of the discovery prior to authorization of 
construction activities to resume. 
 
(d) Paleontological Resources. In the event of the discovery of paleontological resources 
(fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project 
Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. 
The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written report 
documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a summary 
of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of 
the paleontologist when continuing construction. 
 
For the reasons described above, the project would not cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of a historical resource, and no exception to the exemption applies under 15300.2(f).   
 
377 of 517

--- page 378 ---
15 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Section 15332 – In-Fill Development Projects 
Section 15332, or Class 32, applies to projects characterized as in-fill development meeting 
specific conditions. These conditions, along with the project’s consistency with them, are 
described below. 
 
(a) The project is consistent with the applicable general plan designation and all applicable 
general plan policies as well as with applicable zoning designation and regulations. 
 
As discussed under Subsection C. General Plan and Zoning, the site’s land use designation and 
zoning district permit office and residential uses; therefore, the proposed uses are consistent. The 
proposed development’s height (53.5 feet) does not exceed the maximum building height of 55 feet 
imposed by the General Plan land use designation of Executive Office, and since 15 percent (or 12 
units) of the project’s base density residential units would be reserved for very-low income 
residents, the project’s increased density of 75 units/acre and a concession request for an increased 
FAR of 2.98 would be permitted under the California State Density Bonus Law. The project would be 
allowed to develop 69,252 square feet above the allowable base square footage (139,952 square 
feet) per the City’s zoning requirements with the adherence of the State Density Bonus 
requirements (refer to discussion in Section 15300.2(b)).  The additional FAR would not contribute 
to a cumulative impact since the project proposes a mix of land uses at the project site within the 
downtown area, the project would be consistent with the General Plan policies to increase housing 
by providing mixed-use buildings within the downtown area. Further, the City has reviewed the 
proposed project and found it compliant with all applicable policies and regulations set forth in the 
San Mateo General Plan and San Mateo Municipal Code with California State Density Bonus Law 
concessions and waivers applied. Accordingly, the project meets the conditions set forth in CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15332(a). 
 
(b) The proposed development occurs within city limits on a project site of no more than five 
acres substantially surrounded by urban uses. 
 
The proposed development would occur on a 1.6-acre site within the limits of the City of San Mateo 
that, as documented in Section B. Project Site Location and Existing Setting and shown on Figure 3, 
is surrounded by urban uses. Accordingly, the project meets the conditions set forth in CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15332(b). 
 
(c) The project site has no value as habitat for endangered, rare, or threatened species. 
 
As previously documented, the project site is fully developed with an office building and surface 
parking lot. Further, the project site and surrounding area is mapped on Figure 4.9-1 of the San 
Mateo 2030 General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) as Urban habitat, which only provides 
378 of 517

--- page 379 ---
16 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
habitat for common species adapted to human habitation.11 Therefore, the project does not 
provide any habitat for endangered, rare, or threatened species. 
While the project site does not provide any habitat for endangered, rare, or threatened species, the 
project would remove 32 trees, including seven heritage trees, that could be used by urban-
adapted raptors or other protected birds as nesting and foraging habitat. Raptors and nesting birds 
are protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) and the California Department of Fish & 
Wildlife (CDFW). Noise and vibration generated by construction activities have the potential to 
disturb raptors and nesting birds, which could potentially lead to nest abandonment and/or loss of 
reproductive effort, both of which are prohibited by the MBTA and CDFW. As required by the MBTA 
and CDFW, the project would be required to adhere with the following measures to prevent 
construction activities from disturbing nesting birds and raptors. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
(a) Nesting Birds and Migratory Raptors – All potential nesting substrates (e.g., bushes, 
trees, grasses, and other vegetation) that are planned to be removed by the project 
shall be removed prior to February 1 or after August 31, unless the applicant or his/her 
designee complies with the following procedures: 
o Should construction activities be scheduled between February 1 or after August 31, 
pre-construction surveys shall be conducted by a qualified ornithologist to ensure 
that no nests will be disturbed during project implementation. These surveys shall 
be conducted no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of construction. During 
this survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other potential nesting 
habitats within 250 feet of the limits of construction activities. If an active nest is 
found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by these activities, the 
ornithologist shall determine the extent of a construction-free buffer zone (typically 
250 feet for raptors and 50 feet for other species), to ensure that nests of species 
protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and California Department of Fish & 
Wildlife shall not be disturbed during project implementation. These buffers may be 
increased or decreased, as appropriate, depending on the bird species and the level 
of disturbance anticipated near the nest with the permission of the ornithologist.  
o The applicant shall submit a report prepared by a qualified ornithologist indicating 
the results of the survey and any designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning 
Division subject to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or 
his/her designee.  
Adherence with these conditions would ensure that all potential nesting substrates on-site would 
be removed prior to the beginning of nesting season (February 1), and that any active nests within 
250 feet of construction activities would be protected by a construction-free buffer zone. 
Implementation of these conditions would prevent nesting birds and raptors from being disturbed 
 
11 City of San Mateo. 2030 General Plan Environmental Impact Report. Figure 4.9.-1, pages 4.9-4, -8, -9. January 
2010. 
379 of 517

--- page 380 ---
17 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
such that no nest abandonment and/or loss of reproductive effort would occur. Accordingly, the 
project meets the conditions set forth in CEQA Guidelines Section 15332(c). 
 
(d) Approval of the project would not result in any significant effects relating to traffic, noise, 
air quality, or water quality. 
 
Traffic 
The following analysis is based, in part, on a Transportation Impact Assessment (dated July 2023) 
prepared by Fehr & Peers. A copy of this report is attached to this memorandum as Appendix A. 
 
With the passage of Senate Bill 743 (SB 743), vehicle miles traveled (VMT) replaced level of service 
(LOS) as the criteria for determining the significance of traffic impacts. As required by SB 743 and 
the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research (OPR), the City of San Mateo incorporated VMT 
policies and thresholds of significance into its Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines 
(dated August 17, 2020).  
 
The City’s TIA Guidelines include screening criteria which, if met by a project, would result in the 
project having a less than significant VMT impact under CEQA. Under the High-Quality Transit Area 
(HQTA) screening criteria, projects that are within a half-mile of a high-quality transit and meet the 
following criteria are considered to have a less than significant VMT impact12: 
 
• 
Have a floor area ratio greater than 0.75; 
• 
Include less parking for residents, customers, and employees than required by the 
jurisdiction; 
• 
Are consistent with Plan Bay Area 2050; 
• 
Do not replace affordable housing units with a smaller number of moderate- or high-income 
residential units. 
 
The project site is located approximately 0.35 miles from SamTrans Route ECR stop at El Camino 
Real and 9th Avenue and 0.45 miles from the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain station, both of which 
are considered high-quality transit stops under the City’s TIA Guidelines. As documented in D. 
Project Description, the proposed development would have an FAR of 2.98. Under the City’s 
Municipal Code, the project would normally be required to provide 180 residential parking spaces 
and 74 office parking spaces, but as allowed under Assembly Bill 2097 (AB 2097) for projects located 
within a half mile of high-quality transit (Downtown Caltrain Station), the project is proposing to 
provide 112 residential spaces and 38 office spaces. The project would be consistent with the goals 
of Plan Bay Area 2050, such as building affordable housing, creating healthy and safe streets by 
building a complete streets network, and reducing climate emissions, because it would provide 
employment growth (offices) and affordable housing near high-quality transit while promoting 
 
12 The City’s TIA Guidelines define a high-quality transit station as a Caltrain station or bus stop that provides 
service on 15-minute headways during peak commute hours. 
380 of 517

--- page 381 ---
18 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
alternative modes of travel (walking/biking) through implementation of the TDM Plan. Lastly, given 
that the existing project site is only developed with offices, the proposed demolition of the existing 
development and construction of the project would result in a small increase in total office floor 
area (approximately 7,606 square-feet of net new office floor area) and new housing including 
affordable housing. Accordingly, the project satisfies the City’s High-Quality Transit Area screening 
criteria and therefore would have a less than significant VMT impact. 
As previously discussed, SB 743 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3(a) prohibit the use of LOS as a 
metric to identify traffic impacts under CEQA. However, the San Mateo 2030 General Plan includes 
policies addressing potential project effects on intersection operations. The City maintains a level-
of-service (LOS) standard of mid-level LOS D for all intersections. According to General Plan Policy C-
2.7, a development project may be required to fund off-site circulation improvements which are 
needed as a result of project-generated traffic if: 
 
(a) The level of service at the intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average delay of more 
than 45 seconds) when the project is added, and 
(b) An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the base year 
conditions experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and 
(c) The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City 
Capital Improvement Program from the date of application approval. 
 
While an impact on LOS is no longer considered an impact under CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines 
require lead agencies to assess the direct and indirect physical impacts of projects. As such, if a 
project’s effects on intersection LOS and/or roadway operations would necessitate the construction 
or funding of physical improvements, the law requires an analysis of the potential adverse effects 
on the environment that could be caused by the construction of these physical improvements. The 
Transportation Impact Assessment prepared by Fehr & Peers analyzed the project’s impact in 
conjunction with existing and reasonably foreseeable future development on nearby intersections 
and the roadway network through the year 2040, and determined that the project would not have 
any adverse effects on intersection LOS or roadway operations. Therefore, the project would not 
necessitate the construction or funding of any physical improvements. Further, while the 
Transportation Impact Assessment recommended minor modifications to the sidewalks adjacent to 
the project site and repainting portions of the adjacent streets to increase visibility and driver 
awareness, these activities are extremely low impact from an criteria air pollutant emission, noise, 
and vibration standpoint due to the equipment used and time necessary to complete these 
activities, and would not change any of the conclusions set forth in the Air Quality and Noise 
discussions below. All work conducted would be in accordance with the applicant’s Traffic Control 
Plan, to be submitted at the time of the building permit application, and would not impede traffic 
operations. 
 
Since the project would have a less than significant VMT impact, and all physical improvements to 
the transportation network as a result of the project would not result in adverse effects on the 
environment, the project would not have any significant effects relating to traffic. 
 
381 of 517

--- page 382 ---
19 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Noise and Vibration 
The following analysis is based, in part, on a Noise and Vibration Assessment (dated July 10, 2023) 
prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin. A copy of this report is attached to this memorandum as 
Appendix D. 
 
Project Construction 
Construction Noise 
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 7.30.060, construction activities that would occur outside the 
permitted hours of construction (Weekdays between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Saturdays between 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and holidays between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.) or would 
generate noise exceeding 90 dBA at adjacent property lines would have a significant construction-
related noise impact. 
 
Noise impacts resulting from construction depend upon the noise generated by various pieces of 
construction equipment, the timing and duration of noise-generating activities, and the distance 
between construction noise sources and noise-sensitive areas. Construction noise impacts primarily 
result when construction activities occur during noise-sensitive times of the day (e.g., early 
morning, evening, or nighttime hours), the construction occurs in areas immediately adjoining 
noise-sensitive land uses, or when construction lasts over extended periods of time.  
 
Construction activities would generate considerable amounts of noise, especially during earth-
moving activities when heavy equipment is used. During each stage of construction, there would be 
a different mix of equipment operating, and noise levels would vary by stage and vary within stages, 
based on the amount of equipment in operation and the location at which the equipment is 
operating.  
 
As described in Section IV. Project Description, construction of the project is anticipated to last 
approximately 21 months, with demolition and construction beginning in 2024. Construction 
activities would occur on weekdays between 7 a.m.–7 p.m. and Saturdays between 9 a.m.–5 p.m. 
Construction phases of the proposed project would include site clearing and demolition, utility 
connections, building construction, frontage improvements, and landscaping. Equipment used 
during construction activities would include saws, excavators, dozers, tractors/loaders/backhoes, 
graders, cranes, forklifts, welders, air compressors, cement/mortar mixers, pavers, and rollers. No 
pile driving is proposed. 
 
The Federal Highway Administration’s Roadway Construction Noise Model was used to calculate the 
hourly average noise levels for each stage of construction, assuming every piece of equipment 
would operate simultaneously, which would represent the worst-case scenario. Table 1 below 
shows the calculated construction noise levels at the surrounding land uses shown in Figure 3. 
Additional information on the methodology and assumptions used to estimate the project’s 
construction noise levels is available in Appendix D. 
382 of 517

--- page 383 ---
20 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Table 1: Estimated Construction Noise Levels at Adjacent Property Lines 
Construction Phase 
Calculated Hourly Average Noise Levels, dBA Leq1 
North Office 
(145 feet) 
East Comm. 
(170 feet) 
South Comm. 
(230 feet) 
West Comm. 
(240 feet) 
Demolition 
78 
77 
74 
74 
Site Preparation 
75 
74 
71 
71 
Grading/Excavation 
79 
77 
75 
74 
Trenching/Foundation 
72 
71 
68 
68 
Building Exterior 
73 
71 
69 
68 
Building Interior 
65 
63 
60 
60 
Paving 
76 
75 
72 
72 
Source: Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use Project Noise and Vibration Assessment. July 10, 
2023. 
Notes: 
1 Since surrounding land uses would be subject to the collective noise generated by all equipment operating on-
site, distances and noise levels are calculated from the geometrical center of the project site. 
 
Although construction noise levels are not anticipated to exceed 90 dBA at adjacent property lines, 
the use of construction equipment (specifically saws, cement mixers, cranes, dozers, excavators, 
graders, and pavers) could generate noise levels in excess of 90 dBA if used within 25 feet of 
adjacent property lines. General Plan policies N-2.1, N-2.2, and N-2.3 require new development to 
incorporate measures to minimize their noise impacts. As required by the City’s General Plan and 
Municipal Code, the project would be required to adhere to the following measures to minimize 
noise below 90 dBA at adjacent property lines.  
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction equipment to minimize the 
impact of construction noise on existing sensitive receptors. Construction equipment shall be well-
maintained and used judiciously to be as quiet as possible. Additionally, the applicant and 
contractor shall incorporate the following best management practices to reduce noise from 
construction activities on nearby sensitive land uses: 
 
(a) The applicant or their designated contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan 
identifying the schedule for major noise-generating construction activities and include all 
equipment expected to be used in each construction phase of the project, along with the 
quantity of each type of equipment and noise levels. This construction plan shall be 
submitted to the Building and Planning Division subject to the review and satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or their designee prior to the issuance of any 
construction, grading or demolition permit. 
(b) The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate a “disturbance coordinator” 
who would be responsible for responding to any complaints about construction noise. The 
disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise complaint (e.g., bad muffler, 
383 of 517

--- page 384 ---
21 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
etc.) and shall require that measures be implemented to reduce the noise impact. The 
applicant or their designated contractor shall conspicuously post a construction project sign 
that includes a telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the construction site 
and include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule. 
(c) The applicant or their designated contractor shall provide a plan for construction staging 
areas, which shall be established at locations that will create the greatest distance between 
the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors nearest the project site 
during all project construction. The construction staging plan shall be submitted to the 
Planning Division and Public Works, subject to review and satisfaction of the Community 
Development and Public Works Directors, or their designees, prior to issuance of any 
construction, grading or demolition permit. 
(d) Quieter saws, cement mixers, cranes, dozers, excavators, graders, and pavers shall be 
selected. No individual device or piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 
90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet from the source, in accordance with San Mateo Municipal 
Code section 7.30.060(e). 
(e) All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be equipped with intake and exhaust 
mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
(f) Idling of internal combustion engines for longer than five minutes in duration shall be 
strictly prohibited. 
(g) Stationary noise-generating equipment shall be located as far as possible from sensitive 
receptors and property lines. If they must be located within 30 feet of receptors and 
property lines, adequate muffling (with temporary barriers where feasible and appropriate) 
shall be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors to 90 dBA. All 
temporary barriers used shall be eight feet in height at minimum, continuous from grade to 
top, with no cracks or gaps, and have a minimum surface density of three pounds per 
square foot (e.g., one-inch thick wood fence boards). 
(h) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air compressors and other 
stationary noise sources where technology exists. 
 
The Noise and Vibration Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin (refer to Appendix D) 
determined that adherence with the above conditions of approval would ensure noise levels 
generated during construction of the project would not exceed 90 dBA at adjacent property lines. 
Accordingly, the project would not result in any significant effects related to construction noise. 
Construction Vibration 
The California Department of Transportation recommends a vibration limit of 0.5 in/sec PPV for 
buildings structurally sound and designed to modern engineering standards, which typically consist 
of buildings constructed since the 1990s. Conservative vibration limits of 0.3 in/sec PPV has been 
used for buildings that are found to be structurally sound but where structural damage is a major 
concern. For historical buildings or buildings that are documented to be structurally weakened, a 
cautious limit of 0.08 in/sec PPV is often used to provide the highest level of protection. 
 
384 of 517

--- page 385 ---
22 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Construction of the project may generate perceptible vibration when heavy equipment or impact 
tools (e.g. jackhammers, hoe rams) are used in the vicinity of nearby sensitive land uses. As 
previously discussed, construction activities would include site clearing and demolition, utility 
connections, building construction, frontage improvements, and landscaping. Equipment used 
during construction activities would include saws, excavators, dozers, tractors/loaders/backhoes, 
graders, cranes, forklifts, welders, air compressors, cement/mortar mixers, pavers, and rollers. Pile 
driving (which generates substantial vibration) is not proposed as a method of construction. 
 
Based on a review of the NRHP13, CRHP14, and City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, the 
nearest historic buildings are located 400 feet or greater from the project site, and therefore would 
experience vibration levels of 0.01 in/sec PPV or less and would not be impacted. Buildings adjacent 
to the project site are located approximately 25 feet to the north and are of normal, conventional 
construction and were constructed pre-1990, and therefore would be subject to the more 
protective 0.3 in/sec PPV threshold, rather than 0.5 in/sec PPV used for construction after 1990.  
 
Based on typical vibration levels generated by construction equipment, the vibration levels from 
project construction were estimated from the boundary of the project site, which would represent 
the nearest location for use of vibration generating equipment, at the nearest building facades 
(refer to Appendix D for more information on the methodology used to calculate vibration levels). 
Table 2 below summarizes the vibration levels from construction activities at buildings within the 
project’s area of effect. 
 
Table 2: Estimated Vibration Levels at Nearby Buildings 
Equipment 
PPV (in/sec) at Nearest Building Facades 
Office 
(25 feet north) 
Commercial  
(65 feet east) 
Commercial 
(70 feet south) 
Commercial 
(120 feet west) 
Clam shovel drop 
0.202 
0.071 
0.065 
0.036 
Hydromill 
In soil 
0.008 
0.003 
0.003 
0.001 
In 
rock 
0.017 
0.006 
0.005 
0.003 
Vibratory roller 
0.210 
0.073 
0.068 
0.037 
Hoe ram 
0.089 
0.031 
0.029 
0.016 
Large bulldozer 
0.089 
0.031 
0.029 
0.016 
Caisson drilling 
0.089 
0.031 
0.029 
0.016 
Loaded trucks 
0.076 
0.027 
0.024 
0.014 
Jackhammer 
0.035 
0.012 
0.011 
0.006 
Source: Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use Project Noise and Vibration Assessment. July 10, 
2023. 
 
13 National Register of Historic Places. “National Register Database and Research. Accessed June 22, 2022. 
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/nationalregister/database-research.htm  
14 California Register of Historic Places. “California Historical Resources”. Accessed June 22, 2022. 
https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/listedresources/  
385 of 517

--- page 386 ---
23 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
As shown in Table 2, vibration levels at the nearest building façades would not experience vibration 
levels in excess of 0.3 in/sec PPV, which is the level at which cosmetic damage could occur. 
Accordingly, the project would not result in any significant effects related to construction vibration. 
 
Project Operation 
Project-Generated Traffic 
Pursuant to General Plan Policy N2.2, noise produced by project-generated traffic would result in a 
significant effect if it caused a permanent noise increase of three dBA Ldn or greater. Based on the 
traffic volumes provided in the Transportation Impact Assessment prepared for the project (refer to 
Appendix A) for the scenarios involving ‘existing no project’, ‘existing plus project’, ‘cumulative no 
project’, and ‘cumulative plus project’ scenarios, the project would increase noise levels along 
nearby roadway segments by less than one dBA Ldn. Further, noise levels along these roadways 
under both cumulative no project and cumulative plus project scenarios would increase by one dBA 
Ldn, and therefore the project’s contribution would not be cumulatively considerable given that 
roadway noise would not increase by three dBA Ldn or more. Additionally, the 2030 General Plan EIR 
concluded that adherence to the acoustical analysis and compliance conditions of approval 
identified in Section D. Project Description would reduce noise impacts from project-generated 
traffic to a less than significant level. Accordingly, noise from project-generated traffic would not 
result in any significant effects. 
 
Mechanical Equipment 
Policy N.3 of the San Mateo 2030 General Plan prohibits new uses that would generate noise levels 
of 65 dBA Ldn or above at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. Section 7.30.040 
of the San Mateo Municipal Code limits noise levels at commercial/office property lines to 65 dBA 
during daytime hours (7 a.m. to 10 p.m.) and 60 dBA during nighttime hours (10 p.m. to 7 a.m.).  
 
Noise measurements conducted for the Noise and Vibration Assessment determined that daytime 
noise levels averaged 64 dBA Leq and nighttime noise levels averaged 54 dBA Leq along South 
Claremont Street, and 71 dBA Leq during the daytime and 59 dBA Leq during the nighttime along the 
railroad tracks. Based on existing ambient noise levels, the noise level threshold would be 71 dBA 
during the daytime and 60 dBA during the nighttime at the land uses north, south, and west of the 
project site that are located along the railroad tracks. The noise level threshold would be 65 dBA 
during the daytime and 60 dBA during the nighttime at the land uses east of the project site 
opposite South Claremont Street. 
 
The design of the ground level of the proposed building includes two electrical rooms and two 
transformer rooms along the northern façade, a fire pump generator in the northeast corner, and a 
boiler room located on the interior of the parking garage near the northeastern corner. Table 3 
below summarizes the hourly average noise levels and day-night average noise levels projected at 
the land uses to the north and east, which would have a direct line of sight to the northern façade 
of the proposed building, and therefore would be directly exposed to noise generated by the 
386 of 517

--- page 387 ---
24 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
project’s mechanical equipment. Buildings and properties located to the south and west would be 
well shielded from the project’s mechanical equipment from the project’s building envelope and 
internal walls and therefore would not be considered receptors. 
 
Table 3: Operational Noise Levels from Mechanical Equipment 
Receptor 
Mechanical Equipment Hourly Average Noise 
Level (dBA Leq)1 
Day-Night 
Average 
Noise Levels 
(dBA Ldn) 
Noise Level 
Increase (dBA 
Ldn) 
Transformer 
Fire Pump 
Generator2 
Boiler 
Offices  
(30 feet 
north) 
25 
64 
39 
51 
0 
Commercial  
(95 feet east) 
<20 
55 
35 
44 
0 
Source: Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use Project Noise and Vibration Assessment. July 10, 
2023. 
Notes:  
1 Noise levels reflect a conservative assumption that the building envelope would provide a minimum 20 dBA of 
attenuation. 
2 Hourly average thresholds for the fire pump generator would only be applicable during monthly testing during 
daytime hours. These noise levels would not be subject to the nighttime threshold requirements. 
 
As shown in Table 3, noise generated by the project’s mechanical equipment would not exceed the 
City’s daytime and nighttime noise thresholds or increase ambient noise levels at the land uses 
north and east of the site. Accordingly, the project would not result in any significant effects related 
to mechanical equipment noise. 
 
Garbage Truck Pickup 
Truck loading operations would consist of garbage truck pickups, which would occur in the 
northwestern corner of the site. Truck maneuvering noise would include a combination of engine, 
exhaust, and tire noise, as well as the intermittent sounds of back-up alarms and releases of 
compressed air associated with truck/trailer air brakes. For offices and multi-family residences, 
medium-sized delivery trucks would be expected at the proposed building. Medium-sized delivery 
trucks typically generate maximum noise levels of 60 to 65 dBA at 50 feet. The noise level of backup 
alarms can vary depending on the type and directivity of the sound, but maximum noise levels are 
typically in the range of 65 to 75 dBA at a distance of 50 feet. All deliveries are assumed to occur 
during daytime hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. 
 
It is assumed that up to two deliveries would occur weekly and only one delivery would occur in a 
given hour. While the proposed building would provide some shielding for the receptors to the 
north south, and west, no attenuation was assumed for this analysis. Table 4 below summarizes 
noise levels from truck loading and unloading activities that occur for more than five minutes in a 
387 of 517

--- page 388 ---
25 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
given hour (dBA L08) and day-night average noise levels (dBA Ldn) at the land uses to the north and 
east. 
 
Table 4: Operational Noise Levels from Truck Loading and Unloading Activities 
 
Receptor 
Distance from 
Center of 
Loading Area  
(feet) 
(dBA L08) 
Day-Night 
Average  
(dBA Ldn) 
Noise Level 
Increase  
(dBA Ldn) 
North Offices 
40 
67 
50 
0 
South Commercial 
325 
49 
32 
0 
West Commercial 
135 
56 
40 
0 
 
As shown in Table 4, truck loading and unloading activities would not exceed the City’s L08 daytime 
thresholds15 (81 dBA L08) at the receptors with direct line-of-sight to the loading areas. For all 
existing receptors, the ambient noise level increase due to truck loading and unloading activities 
would not be measurable or detectable (0 dBA Ldn increase). Accordingly, the project would not 
result in any significant effects related to noise generated by truck loading and unloading activities. 
 
Total Combined Project-Generated Noise 
Once operational, noise generated by all project activities (i.e., traffic, mechanical equipment, and 
garbage truck pickups) would result in an increase of less than one dBA Ldn at surrounding land uses. 
Therefore, operation of the project would not result in any significant effects related to noise. 
 
Air Quality  
The following discussion is based, in part, on an Air Quality Assessment prepared for the project by 
Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. A copy of this report, dated July 14, 2023, is attached to this 
memorandum as Appendix E. 
 
Air quality impacts may occur when a project conflicts with or obstructs the applicable air quality 
plan, or results in a cumulatively considerable net increase in any criteria air pollutant for which the 
region (i.e., the San Francisco Bay Area) is non-attainment under the applicable federal or state 
standard, the exposure of sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations (including 
toxic air contaminants (TACs), such as diesel particulate matter (DPM) that would result in 
community health risks, or in odors that would adversely affect a significant number of people.16 
 
15 Thresholds for activities occurring more than five minutes in a given hour for the north offices, south commercial 
uses, and west commercial uses would be 81 dBA L08 during daytime hours and 70 dBA L08 during nighttime hours. 
16 The applicable air quality plan is the Bay Area Air Quality Management District 2017 Clean Air Plan. The San 
Francisco Bay Area is non-attainment for ground-level ozone (O3), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM), 
sulfur dioxide (SOx), and lead. The project does not include substantial new emissions of sulfur dioxide or lead; 
therefore, these criteria pollutants are not discussed further. 
388 of 517

--- page 389 ---
26 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
2017 Bay Area Clean Air Plan 
The proposed project would not conflict with the 2017 Bay Area Clean Air Plan (Plan) because the 
project would not exceed the BAAQMD thresholds of significance for construction and operational 
criteria air pollutant emissions, as described below. Because the project would not exceed the 
BAAQMD screening criteria, it would not result in significant impacts due to the generation of 
construction or operational-related criteria air pollutants. Thus, the project is not required to 
incorporate project-specific control measures listed in the 2017 Plan. Further, the project is 
considered urban infill and would be located near bike facilities and transit with regional 
connections. Implementation of the project would not prevent BAAQMD or partner agencies from 
continuing progress toward attaining State and federal air quality standards and eliminating health-
risk disparities from exposure to air pollution among Bay Area communities, as described within the 
2017 Plan. Accordingly, the project would not result in significant effects due to a conflict with the 
2017 Plan. 
 
Criteria Air Pollutants 
Construction Period Emissions 
The California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) Version 2022.1 was used to estimate 
emissions from project construction. Construction emissions were modeled based on equipment 
list and schedule information provided by the applicant. CalEEMod defaults for the associated land 
use and size were used where project-specific information was unavailable. Details about the 
equipment list, construction schedule, modeling, data inputs, and assumptions are included in 
Appendix E. Table 5 summarizes the unmitigated annualized average daily construction emissions of 
ROG, NOX, PM10 exhaust, and PM2.5 exhaust during construction of the project. 
 
Table 5: Project Construction Period Emissions 
Year 
Annualized Daily Construction Emissions (pounds/day) 
ROG 
NOx 
PM10 Exhaust 
PM2.5 Exhaust 
2024 
0.81 
4.5 
0.17 
0.15 
2025 
8.5 
3.1 
0.084 
0.078 
BAAQMD 
Threshold 
54 
54 
82 
54 
Exceed 
Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use 
Project. July 14, 2023. 
 
As shown in Table 5, the unmitigated average daily emissions of ROG, NOx, PM10, or PM2.5 
generated by project construction would not exceed BAAQMD thresholds. Accordingly, the 
project’s construction period emissions would have a less than significant impact. 
389 of 517

--- page 390 ---
27 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Operational Period Emissions 
Operational period criteria pollutant emissions associated with the project would be generated 
primarily from vehicles driven by future office occupants and residents, and to a lesser extent by 
waste disposal and daily energy and water usage. The proposed project falls below the BAAQMD 
operational criteria air pollutants screening thresholds of 638 dwelling units and 765,000 square 
feet for the “Apartments” and “General office building” land use types, respectively. The project 
proposes a mix of uses, and the residential component of 120 units is approximately 19 percent of 
the screening level of 638 dwelling units, and the office component of 33,529 square feet is 
approximately four percent of the screening level of 765,000 square feet. Collectively, the size of 
the proposed mixed-use development equates to 11.5 percent of the screening level, equivalent to 
slightly less than one-sixth of the size of a mixed-use development that would exceed the BAAQMD 
screening criteria and warrant a detailed operational period criteria air pollutant emissions analysis. 
Therefore, the project would result in a less than significant air quality impact due to operational-
related criteria air pollutant emissions. 
 
Community Health Risks 
Project impacts related to increased community risk can occur either by introducing a new source 
of TACs with the potential to adversely affect existing sensitive residents and workers in the project 
vicinity or by significantly exacerbating existing cumulative TAC impacts. The project would 
introduce new sources of TACs during construction (i.e., on-site construction and truck hauling 
emissions) and operation (i.e., mobile sources). 
 
Project construction activity would generate dust and equipment exhaust that would affect nearby 
sensitive receptors. During project operation, the project would generate emissions associated with 
traffic consisting of mostly light-duty vehicles. 
 
Project impacts to existing sensitive receptors were addressed for temporary construction activities 
and long-term operational conditions, as discussed below. There are also several sources of existing 
TACs and localized air pollutants in the vicinity of the project. The impact of the existing sources of 
TACs were also assessed in terms of the cumulative risk which includes the project’s contribution. 
 
Community risk impacts were addressed by predicting increased cancer risk, the increase in annual 
PM2.5 concentrations and computing the Hazard Index (HI) for non-cancer health risks. The risk 
impacts from the project are the combination of risks from construction and operation sources. 
These sources include on-site construction activity, construction truck hauling, and increased traffic 
from the project. To evaluate the increased cancer risks from the project, a 30-year exposure period 
is typically used (per BAAQMD guidance), with the nearby residential sensitive receptors being 
exposed to both project construction and operation emissions during this timeframe.  
 
The project’s increased cancer risk is computed by summing the project construction cancer risk 
and operation cancer risk contributions. Unlike the increased maximum cancer risk, the annual 
390 of 517

--- page 391 ---
28 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
PM2.5 concentration and HI values are not additive but based on the annual maximum values for the 
entirety of the project. The project’s maximally exposed individual (MEI) are identified as the 
existing resident or worker that would be most impacted by the project’s construction and 
operation. Other residents and workers in the surrounding area would be exposed to a lower health 
risk than identified for the MEI. Additional explanation of the methodology for computing 
community risk impacts is provided in Appendix E. 
 
Construction Health Risks 
The MEI with the greatest cancer risks during construction would be a single-family residence 
located on 9th Avenue between South Claremont Street and South Delaware Street. The MEI with 
the greatest exposure to PM2.5 would be located along the project site’s western property line, and 
the MEI with the greatest exposure to non-cancer health risks would be located opposite the 
project site on 9th Avenue between South Claremont Street and South Railroad Avenue. The 
locations of the MEIs are shown on Figure 6.  
 
Construction equipment and associated heavy-duty truck traffic generates diesel exhaust, which is a 
known TAC. Although construction exhaust air pollutant emissions would not contribute 
substantially to existing or projected air quality violations, construction exhaust emissions may still 
pose health risks for sensitive receptors such as surrounding residents. Diesel exhaust particulate 
matter (DPM) poses both a potential health and nuisance impact to nearby receptors. The primary 
community risk impact issues associated with construction emissions are cancer risk and exposure 
to PM2.5. A quantitative health risk assessment of the project construction activities was conducted 
to evaluate the potential health effects to nearby sensitive receptors from construction emissions 
of DPM and PM2.5, pursuant to the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines using CalEEMod and the 
U.S. EPA AERMOD dispersion model. Details about the community health risk modeling, data 
inputs, and assumptions are included in  Appendix E. Table 6 below summarizes maximum cancer 
risks, PM2.5 concentrations, and hazard index from project construction activities at the MEI. 
391 of 517

--- page 392 ---
Project Name
City
#
Document Type
Date
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc., July 2023.
LOCATION OF MEI DURING PROJECT CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION
FIGURE 6
392 of 517

--- page 393 ---
30 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Table 6: Construction Health Risks at Offsite MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk per 
Million 
Hazard Index 
PM2.5 Concentration 
Construction 
2.4 
0.011 
0.25 
Emergency Generator 
5.8 
0 
0 
Totals 
8.2 
0.011 
0.25 
BAAQMD Threshold 
10.0 
1.0 
0.30 
Exceed Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use 
Project. July 14, 2023. 
 
As shown in Table 6, the project’s construction-related community health risks would not exceed 
BAAQMD thresholds. Accordingly, the project’s construction-related health risk impacts would be 
less than significant. 
 
Operation Health Risks 
Operation of the project would generate emissions from mobile sources (i.e., traffic) and stationary 
sources (i.e., the proposed on-site generator). While these emissions would not be as intensive at or 
near the project sites as construction activity, they would contribute to long-term effects to 
sensitive receptors. The MEI during project operation with the greatest exposure to cancer risks is 
the same as the MEI for cancer risks during project construction; the MEI for non-cancer health risks 
is located opposite the project site across 9th Avenue, and the MEI for PM2.5 exposure is located at 
the western property line of the project site. The MEIs during project operation are shown on 
Figure 6. 
 
Per BAAQMD, roadways with less than 10,000 total vehicles per day are considered a low-impact 
source of TACs. Based on the project’s trip generation estimates, the project would result in a net 
increase of 489 daily trips and would not result in any roadways exceeding 10,000 total vehicles per 
day. Therefore, emissions associated with project-generated traffic would not expose sensitive 
receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations. 
 
The project includes an 85-hp diesel fire pump generator; operation of a diesel generator is a source 
of TAC emissions. The generator would be operated for testing and maintenance purposes and 
would be required to meet EPA emissions standards. The emissions from the operation of the 
generator were calculated using the CalEEMod model. 
 
Stationary source diesel engines larger than 50 hp are subject to CARB’s Stationary Diesel Airborne 
Toxics Control Measure and require permits from the BAAQMD. As part of the BAAQMD permit 
requirements for toxics screening analysis, the emergency generator engine emissions would have 
to meet Best Available Control Technology for Toxics and pass the toxic risk screening level of less 
than ten cancer cases in a million. The risk assessment would be prepared by BAAQMD. Depending 
on results, BAAQMD would set limits for DPM emissions (e.g., more restricted engine operation 
393 of 517

--- page 394 ---
31 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
periods). Sources of air pollutant emissions complying with all applicable BAAQMD regulations 
generally would not be considered to have a significant air quality community risk impact. 
To estimate potential cancer risks and PM2.5 impacts from operation of the emergency generator, 
CalEEMod Version 2022.1 was used to calculate the maximum annual DPM concentration at the off-
site MEIs. Refer to  Appendix E for more detail about the model, data inputs, and assumptions used 
to estimate the health risk from the emergency generator. Table 7 shows the community risks 
associated with operation of the proposed generator at the off-site MEIs. 
 
Table 7: Operational Health Risks at Offsite MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk per 
Million 
Hazard Index 
PM2.5 Concentration 
Emergency Generator 
9.4 
0.0028 
0.014 
BAAQMD Threshold 
10.0 
1.0 
0.30 
Exceed Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use 
Project. July 14, 2023. 
 
As shown in Table 7, the project’s operation-related community health risks would not exceed 
BAAQMD thresholds. Accordingly, project operation-related health risk impacts would be less than 
significant. 
 
Cumulative Health Risks from All TAC Sources 
Community health risk assessments typically look at all substantial sources of TACs that can affect 
sensitive receptors that are located within 1,000 feet of the project site. These sources include busy 
surface streets (i.e., roadways that exceed 10,000 vehicles per day), stationary sources, and projects 
with concurrent construction schedules. There is one project within 1,000 feet of the project site 
(located at 616 South B Street) that is projected to be constructed at the same time as the proposed 
project. Construction of this project was factored into the cumulative analysis provided in Table 8 
below based on data provided by the City and 616 South B Street project applicant.  
 
Modeling was completed to calculate the community health risk from the cumulative sources at the 
project MEI, which would be the same as described above for the project operation scenario. Refer 
to Appendix E for details about the cumulative health risk modeling, including model inputs and 
assumptions. Table 8 reports the cumulative community risk impacts from project construction and 
operation and other cumulative sources at the MEIs, which would be the same as described for the 
project operation-only scenario. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
394 of 517

--- page 395 ---
32 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
Table 8: Cumulative Health Risks at Offsite MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk per 
Million 
Hazard Index 
PM2.5 Concentration 
Project 
Construction/Operation  9.41 
0.011 
0.25 
Foreseeable Future 
Stationary Sources 
0.24 
5.2E-04 
0.0053 
Existing/Future 
Stationary Sources 
0.038 
0.0017 
0.000048 
Roadways 
18 
0.045 
0.25 
Railways 
58 
0.027 
0.19 
Total 
86 
0.085 
0.70 
BAAQMD Threshold 
100.0 
10.0 
0.80 
Exceed Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
Source: Ramboll US Consulting, Inc. CEQA Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment for 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use 
Project. July 14, 2023. 
Notes:  
1 The maximum cancer impact is from the project operation scenario. 
2 Foreseeable future stationary sources include the mixed-use development at 616 South B. Street (Nazareth 
Vista). 
 
As shown in Table 8, the cumulative cancer risks, annual PM2.5 concentrations, and hazard index for 
non-cancer health risks would not exceed BAAQMD’s cumulative-source thresholds. Accordingly, 
the project’s cumulative health risks would not have a significant effect. 
 
Odors 
According to the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, an odor source with five or more confirmed 
complaints per year averaged over three years is considered to have a significant impact.17 
BAAQMD has identified a variety of land uses that produce emissions that may lead to odors and 
generate complaints including, but are not limited to, wastewater treatment plants, landfills, 
composting operations, and food manufacturing facilities.  
 
Residential and office uses do not typically generate objectionable odors, nor do they fall under any 
of the land uses identified by BAAQMD to cause objectionable odors. Localized odors, mainly 
resulting from diesel exhaust and construction equipment on-site, would be created during the 
construction phase of the project. These odors would be temporary and not likely to be noticed 
beyond the project site’s boundaries. Odors associated with the application of paints and coatings 
may also be noticeable on occasion by adjacent receptors. Painting and coating of the project would 
occur during daytime hours only, would be localized, and would be generally confined to the project 
site. These odors would also be temporary. Operation and maintenance of the project would 
 
17 Bay Area Air Quality Management District. California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines. May 
2017. Page 2-1. 
395 of 517

--- page 396 ---
33 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
require the use of cleaning supplies, maintenance chemicals, and herbicides and pesticides for 
landscape maintenance. Any odors generated by the use of these materials would be both 
temporary and highly localized. Therefore, the project would not result in other emissions (such as 
those leading to odors) adversely affecting a substantial number of people. 
 
Water Quality 
The water quality of streams, creeks, ponds, and other surface water bodies can be greatly affected 
by pollution carried in contaminated surface runoff. Pollutants from unidentified sources, known as 
non-point source pollutants, are washed from streets, construction sites, parking lots, and other 
exposed surfaces into storm drains. Urban stormwater runoff often contains contaminants such as 
oil and grease, plant and animal debris (e.g., leaves, dust, animal feces, etc.), pesticides, litter, and 
heavy metals. In sufficient concentration, these pollutants have been found to adversely affect the 
aquatic habitats to which they drain. 
 
Construction 
Construction activities, such as grading and excavation, have the potential to result in temporary 
impacts to surface water quality in adjacent waterways and groundwater. When disturbance to the 
soil occurs, sediments may be dislodged and discharged into the storm drainage system after 
surface runoff flows across the site. 
 
Construction of the building footings, grading, and trenching activities would extend to a depth of 
six feet and therefore would not encounter groundwater on-site.18 No dewatering would be 
required as a result of the project. Projects that would disturb one acre or more of soil are required 
by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) to file a Notice of Intent (NOI) and prepare a 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). Projects are required by Chapter 7.39 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code to adhere with the SWRCB regulations and obtain a Stormwater Pollution 
Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit. Adherence with the aforementioned regulations would 
ensure that the discharge of pollutants is minimized to the extent feasible, and would protect 
beneficial uses and receiving waters from the adverse effects of construction-related storm water 
discharges. Accordingly, construction of the project would not result in any significant effects on 
water quality. 
 
Post-Construction 
Provision C.3 of the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) Municipal 
Regional Stormwater Permit (MRP) requires project that create or replace 5,000 square feet or 
more of impervious surface area are required to implement site design, source control, and Low 
Impact Development (LID)-based stormwater treatment controls to treat post-construction 
stormwater runoff. The project would increase impervious surfaces on-site by 9,422 square-feet 
 
18 Based on a Geotechnical Investigation prepared by Rockridge Geotechnical, groundwater on-site is located at 
depths of 10 feet below ground surface (bgs) and greater. 
396 of 517

--- page 397 ---
34 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
and therefore would be required to comply with Provision C.3. As documented in Section D. Project 
Description, the project would comply with Provision C.3 by treating stormwater runoff through the 
use of self-treating pervious areas, bioretention planters, and silva cells. Collected stormwater 
would percolate belowground or be routed to bioretention planter or silva cell before discharging 
to the City storm drain at the intersection of 9th Avenue and South Claremont Street. Additionally, 
as required by Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code and the Provision C.3 of the MRP, the 
project applicant would be required to implement the following measures. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
(a) Owner/occupant shall operate and maintain private stormwater treatment devices in 
accordance with the operation and maintenance agreement. Inspection requirements 
would be determined as part of the agreement with the City.  
(b) The applicant shall pay a Stormwater Management Permit fee on a yearly basis for cost 
associated with, but not limited to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment 
facilities, emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and 
facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no longer able to 
meet performance standards or has deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the City’s 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by the City Council, in effect at the time. 
(c) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains to 
Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works. 
(d) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum-based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. 
 
Adherence with Provision C.3 of the MRP, the City’s Municipal Code, and the San Mateo 
Countywide Stormwater Management Plan would ensure that stormwater pollution is minimized, 
treated, and filtered prior to entering the storm drain system. Accordingly, operation of the project 
would not result in any significant effects to water quality. 
 
(e) The site can be adequately serviced by all required utilities and public services. 
 
Utilities 
Utility services to the proposed project would be provided by the City of San Mateo (storm drain, 
sanitary sewer), the California Water Bayshore District (water service), and Pacific Gas & Electric 
(PG&E) (electricity). The project proposes to construct new laterals and electrical connections that 
would tie into existing utility lines located in South Claremont Street and 9th Avenue.  
 
The City of San Mateo Public Works Department has confirmed, based on storm drain and sanitary 
sewer capacity studies, that the existing storm drain and sanitary sewer infrastructure can 
accommodate increases in flows generated by the proposed project. The proposed project falls 
397 of 517

--- page 398 ---
35 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
below the 500-dwelling unit and 500,000 square foot thresholds for preparation of a water supply 
assessment by a local provider19, and the Cal Water Bayshore District determined in its most recent 
Urban Water Management Plan (UWMP) that the City will meet projected water demand through 
2045 during normal, single-, and multiple-dry years. Accordingly, sufficient water supplies would be 
available to the project. The project would coordinate with PG&E on connections between the 
existing power grid lines and the proposed building, and as discussed in Section 15300.2 – 
Exceptions above, the project’s energy consumption would be minimal in comparison with county 
demand and would be accommodated by existing energy supplies. Accordingly, the project can be 
adequately serviced by all required utilities. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
(a) Location and Screening of Above Ground Utilities and Equipment. All screening for any 
ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices shall 
be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened with 
landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or their designee. 
 
Public Services 
The proposed project would intensify use of the site and may result in an increase in demand for 
fire and police protection services. However, the proposed project is consistent with the 
assumptions of the San Mateo 2030 General Plan EIR, which concluded that new development 
would have a less than significant impact on fire and police protection services with payment of 
building permit fees (as mandated by the City’s General Plan and Municipal Code) that would help 
provide additional fire and police protection resources to the City as needed. Additionally, the 
project would be constructed in compliance with the most recent California Building Code and 
California Fire code to ensure the building is fire-safe, and with Implementation Program LU-4.29 
and the City’s Building Security Code which requires proposed developments to be reviewed by the 
San Mateo Police Department to ensure appropriate safety features that minimize criminal activity 
are incorporated into the project design. For these reasons, fire and police protection services are 
adequate to service the proposed project. 
 
Based on the San Mateo-Foster City School District’s student generation rates of 0.04 student per 
multi-family residential unit for elementary schools and middle schools, the project’s 120 
residential units would generate approximately five new students at Sunnybrae Elementary School 
and Borel Middle School. Using the San Mateo Union High School District’s student generation rate 
of 0.10 high school students per multi-family residential unit, the project would generate 
approximately 12 new students at San Mateo High School. Enrollment at Sunnybrae Elementary is 
372 students with a capacity of 832 students, enrollment at Borel Middle is 1,002 students with a 
 
19 Pursuant to Senate Bill 610 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15155. 
398 of 517

--- page 399 ---
36 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
capacity of 1,134 students, and enrollment at San Mateo High is 1,671 students with a capacity of 
1,941 students. Accordingly, Sunnybrae Elementary, Borel Middle, and San Mateo High can 
accommodate an additional 460, 132, and 270 students, respectively. Therefore, adequate capacity 
exists at the school facilities that serve the project site. The project would be required to pay 
statutory school impact fees to offset its impact to the school districts serving the site. 
 
Future residents and employees are expected to marginally increase demand on other public 
facilities, such as libraries and community centers. The City’s Recreation Facilities Strategic Plan 
outlines a plan for the future of San Mateo’s recreation facilities. Additionally, the City is in process 
of updating its library services through the San Mateo Public Library Strategic Plan, which will build 
and expand existing library facilities and employ resources in new ways to ensure equitable access. 
Accordingly, libraries and community centers in San Mateo would be equipped to provide services 
to new residents of the proposed project. The project would also pay in-lieu fees under the Quimby 
Act to offset the demand generated by new residents and employees on parks and recreational 
facilities. For these reasons, the project would not result in a significant effect on public facilities 
such as libraries, community centers, parks, and recreation facilities. 
 
VI. Conclusion 
As documented under Section E. Environmental Review, none of the exceptions listed in CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15300.2 apply to the project, and the project is eligible for a Categorical 
Exemption under CEQA Guidelines Section 15332, since it a) meets the definition of an in-fill 
development project; b) would occur within San Mateo city limits on a project site no more than 
five acres that is surrounded by urban uses and c) has no value as habitat for endangered, rare, or 
threatened species; d) would not result in any significant effects relating to traffic, noise, air quality, 
or water quality; and e) can be adequately served by all required utilities and public services. 
Therefore, the project is exempt from the provisions of CEQA under Class 32 of the CEQA 
Guidelines. 
 
 
399 of 517

--- page 400 ---
37 
1871 The Alameda, Suite 200 • San José, CA 95126 • Tel: (408) 248-3500 • www.davidjpowers.com 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Transportation Impact Assessment
Appendix B: Greenhouse Gas Assessment
Appendix C: Geotechnical Report 
Appendix D: Noise and Vibration Assessment 
Appendix E: Air Quality Assessment 
All documents available online here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4620/
400 of 517

--- page 401 ---
From:
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
477 9th Avenue- comment
Date:
Tuesday, June 28, 2022 11:17:59 PM
Hello,
I am writing to you as the planner working on the application for 477 9th Avenue, with a
comment on the current design and the potential impact on the heritage tree adjacent to the
property on South Claremont Street.
Though the current design proposal for 477 9th Avenue does not include the removal of the
beautiful Live Oak, I do not feel that it sufficiently respects it or makes enough allowances to
ensure that the tree survives the construction intact. While a large portion of the tree's canopy
was removed to accommodate adjacent power lines, the root system is likely to still extend
beneath the existing building, and there is a concern that soil compaction during construction
could damage those roots and put the health of the tree at real risk. The canopy itself does still
extend over the sidewalk and to the edge of the existing building- trimming any portion of the
tree would have both a visual and potential health impacts in the short and long term. Despite
these concerns and the stated desire by the developers in the Daily Journal to respect the
heritage tree, the current design does little to incorporate or take advantage of this unique site
feature, with the massing of the building extending straight along South Claremont, effectively
touching the tree in question.
Creating a real setback adjacent to the tree such as a recessed entrance or mini public plaza
would serve the dual functions of creating an additional interesting street-level feature and
providing extra buffer zone where no deep excavation would be needed. It is ironic to me that
the currently-proposed plaza was placed facing Ninth Avenue and not on South Claremont
next to such a fantastic existing landscape feature. For a real world example I would point to
the ALMR Apartments at 685 NW 21st Avenue in Portland, Oregon. This preservation award-
winning design was partially set back from the street to provide a buffer zone around a
landmarked heritage tree.
I have no objections to this project as a whole, but I have seen local projects in the past where
the stated desire on the part of stakeholders to preserve our living heritage was not respected
by the architects or eventually by the construction crews, resulting in the removal of a dead
tree. And while that is not guaranteed to happen in this case, based on the current design, and
in the absence of vigilant oversight, I fear the outcome will be the same.
Sincerely,
-Adam Klafter
401 of 517

--- page 402 ---
From:
Kristie Eglsaer
To:
Rick Bonilla; Diane Papan; Eric Rodriguez; Amourence Lee; Joe Goethals; City Council (San Mateo); Clerk;
Planning Commission; Planning
Subject:
Comments re mixed use projects - reuse demolition debris, make family-friendly and fund multimodal policies
Date:
Tuesday, July 12, 2022 3:22:28 PM
Dear City Council, Planning Commission, and Planning Department, 
For proposed mixed use projects at 477 Ninth Ave and Block 21 please consider how to:
-reduce, reuse and recycle demolition debris
-make family-friendly developments
-fund and create multimodal policies
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Demolition Debris
At both these proposed mixed use projects, it is proposed that demolition will occur at the
current sites before proceeding with development. According to the EPA, Construction and
Demolition debris is the largest source of waste in America, more than twice the amount of
waste generated by municipal solid waste. San Mateo is a leader in waste reduction, as with
finding reasonable solutions to support businesses transitioning to compostable take out
containers. Construction and demolition debris must be addressed. 
US EPA Best Practices for Reducing, Reusing, and Recycling Construction and Demolition
Materials 
CalRecycle C&D Recycling Tools for Contractors, Local Governments, and Processors
Make Family Friendly Developments
In the two SMDJ articles for each project linked above, neither says how many 2 or 3 bedroom
apartments will be available, but based on the number of studios and 1 bedrooms listed, it
seems less than a third of the available apartments will be family-sized units. With only 10
percent being “affordable” units, I can imagine maybe only a few family-sized units will be
“affordable” units. Not only am I concerned with the number of and affordability of family-
sized units, but also the design elements that make a multi-unit dwelling family-friendly. 
Mid-rise developments could do more to be designed with children in mind. One family-
friendly best practice is to create onsite outdoor recreational space like an interior courtyard to
have a space where children can play. 
Here are links to more design best practices for transit-oriented development that is also
family-friendly: 
PLANNING FOR CHILDREN IN NEW VERTICAL COMMUNITIES (PDF)
HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING FOR FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN GUIDELINES (PDF)
Fund and Create Multimodal Policies
And speaking of transit oriented development, we should rethink how we consider housing
and transit. The pandemic has only magnified the need for transit beyond the typical 9-5
commute in and out of San Francisco or Silicon Valley via Caltrain.
“SamTrans is recovering well, relative to other Bay Area transit agencies, with nearly two 
402 of 517

--- page 403 ---
thirds of its pre-pandemic numbers.”
“Despite the stronger numbers, Caltrain has only seen around 25% return of its pre-pandemic
baseline, falling behind other Bay Area transit agencies. Other agencies like SamTrans have
more essential workers who have returned in person. Caltrain has previously said recovery
would highly depend on workers returning to the office. Ridership consists of office commute
trips to downtown San Francisco and Silicon Valley. SamTrans ridership data for April 2022
shows 63.9% of riders compared to the same period in 2019, better than other local agencies.”
When thinking about creating transit-oriented development, we should look beyond the
Caltrain line. 
Also, the city should ceate and implement policies that are structured in a way to incentivize
enhanced transportation demand management (TDM) strategies and create funding
mechanisms for bicycle, pedestrian, and public transit infrastructure with transit-oriented
development. Policy and funding strategies can be found in the 2015 Sustainable Streets
Plan (PDF) — Sustainable Streets Fee on p. 54/515 and reimagined TDM plan on
p.485/515 including a goal of 25% trip reduction target in the downtown and rail corridors.
I appreciate all the Council, Commission and city staff do to be at the forefront of
implementing best practices to create a sustainable community. 
Thanks very much for your consideration of my comments. 
Best, Kristie 
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/san-mateo-s-ninth-avenue-to-see-mixed-use-
proposal/article_8c463e7c-c46f-11ec-ba5c-231d42723ae7.html
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/whole-block-demo-approved-in-downtown-san-
mateo/article_ab8b2426-f5ef-11ec-bc87-ebccc3cd221b.html
https://www.epa.gov/facts-and-figures-about-materials-waste-and-recycling/construction-and-
demolition-debris-material
https://www.epa.gov/smm/best-practices-reducing-reusing-and-recycling-construction-and-
demolition-materials
https://calrecycle.ca.gov/ConDemo/Tools/
https://theconversation.com/more-children-are-living-in-high-rise-apartments-so-designers-
should-keep-them-in-mind-100756?msclkid=78610a7fb62611ec98e43ec987034816
https://wallsofthecity.blogspot.com/2015/08/family-friendly-mid-rise.html?
msclkid=e840f328b62111eca5e0bea9a62b3095
https://www.toronto.ca/legdocs/mmis/2017/pg/bgrd/backgroundfile-103920.pdf
https://guidelines.vancouver.ca/guidelines-high-density-housing-for-families-with-
children.pdf
403 of 517

--- page 404 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/caltrain-sees-higher-ridership-in-
april/article_e308ab1a-00f0-11ed-bdca-cfd4e49b211c.html
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/44849/1--
SanMateoSustainableStreetsFullFINAL---Copy
404 of 517

--- page 405 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, May 23, 2023 3:50 PM
To:
Julia Klein; Somer Smith; Linda Ly
Cc:
Manira Sandhir
Subject:
FW: Construction in Downtown San Mateo
Julia, Somer, and Linda, 
 
Please see the public comment below addressed to Downtown projects. Please include a copy of this letter in your 
respective Downtown project files. 
 
-Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Erin White 
  
Sent: Monday, May 22, 2023 6:54 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice 
Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Construction in Downtown San Mateo 
 
Dear City Council, Mr. Bustos, and Ms. Olds, 
San Mateo used to be a wonderful, family-friendly place to live with amenities nearby. We had all the elements: a quaint 
downtown, amazing views of the hills and bay, a smaller more connected community, beautiful old architecture, etc. 
This should be the perfect time and opportunity to keep and enhance what makes San Mateo a truly special and unique 
place to live. However, I am exceedingly frustrated and saddened by what has been happening over the past several 
years. The City of San Mateo is being destroyed faster than I ever imagined was possible. 
Against the residents wishes and concerns, the City Council keeps approving and shoving more huge developments 
down the pipeline. Our precious city is being overrun by greedy developers building the most ugly, generic, blocky, 
cheap looking, monstrosities which go right up to the sidewalk with no greenery. The downtown area is getting 
crowded, claustrophobic, looks unattractive, and gets worse with each new development. The once beautiful views are 
starting to get blocked off by tall buildings. Don't make it worse by repealing Measure Y. Residents need to be able to 
stay connected to the nature around them. It's an important part of why people live here. It is beneficial and 
necessary  for our health and well-being. 
It is clear that the city does not need any more office space, as there are lots of vacancies. I don't understand why the 
city is tearing down block after block, and jamming in more and more people, when our infrastructure is failing and can't 
even support the current community. The roads and sidewalks are in complete disrepair; it's honestly an 
405 of 517

--- page 406 ---
2
embarrassment. Traffic has gotten so bad that it's near impossible to get across town, especially during commute hours. 
That will only continue to get worse with all the new construction going on and potential future projects. 
The city needs to stop construction projects like Block 20 and 21 so these issues can be addressed and fixed. Demolition 
permits should be tied directly to building permits, so we don't end up with an eyesore of empty lots with dirt mounds 
and tree stumps for years to come. The city should be focusing on quality of life issues and environmental stewardship. 
Buildings should be built farther back from the sidewalk to allow for landscaping and mature trees to provide shade for 
pedestrians. We should incorporate new green methods, taking advantage of vertical space to have living walls, have 
underground parking garages with a park on top, etc. 
The City Council needs to push back against the developers, construction companies, and the state to take our city back. 
Don't let them cheat us out of the future of our home. They need to be respectful and responsive to residents and 
contribute to our community. If there are delays, they should make that up to the residents by investing in our 
downtown. Listen to the residents who voted you in and follow their lead. We need to support small businesses, have a 
wide variety of services, and more green space. We are calling for action. Please restore the heart and soul of San 
Mateo. 
Sincerely, 
Erin White 
San Mateo Resident 
 
406 of 517

--- page 407 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Manira Sandhir
Sent:
Friday, May 26, 2023 9:27 AM
To:
Marsha Heimbecker
Subject:
RE: Stop building highrises in San Mateo
Dear Ms. Heimbecker -  
 
Thank you for your comments and my apologies on missing your email last week. Since you covered a broad range of 
topics in your comments, I have forwarded your email to the City Clerk to distribute to City Councilmembers and to 
project teams reviewing projects in the Downtown and Hillsdale Mall, including the General Plan and Housing Element 
teams, so it can be considered as part of the project reviews.  
 
If you have comments or would like to provide input on a specific project, I included a link below to the City's what's 
happening page that has detailed information about the status of each project.  
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1176/Whats-Happening-in-Development 
 
Best regards, 
 
Manira 
 
Manira Sandhir, AICP 
Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator 
650-522-7203 (o) | 650-242-6126 (c)  
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Marsha Heimbecker 
  
Sent: Thursday, May 18, 2023 11:23 AM 
To: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Stop building highrises in San Mateo 
 
Dear Councilman, 
 
You are ruining San Mateo. 
 
These high rises are terrible!  Downtown San Mateo and the Hillsdale mall will be awful.  It is already gridlock.  Have you 
tried to go to Foster City or 101 anytime between 3-7pm? 
 
It took me 45 minutes to get to Edgewater! 
 
You are destroying the mental health of San Mateo citizens.  Overcrowding leads to more crime, violence, and drugs.  Go 
research JAMA. 
 
You are adding 1200 units to Hillsdale.  How are 1200 cars going to fit on our roads.  It is more likely 2400 cars, because 
only households with two workers will be able to afford this area. 
 
Please stop building.  Please stop making high rises in the middle of residential areas. 
407 of 517

--- page 408 ---
2
 
Your responsibility is not to money grubbing greedy developers, you gave an oath to the city of San Mateo and its 
citizens. 
 
Responsibility and honor begins at home. 
 
Marsha Heimbecker  
Sent from my iPhone 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
408 of 517

--- page 409 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
TO:  
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator 
CC:  
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director 
 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager 
 
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney 
FROM:  San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
SUBJECT: New development projects in and around Downtown 
Dear Ms. Sandhir, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance would like to schedule a meeting with Planning and Community 
Development to discuss the following concerns regarding development projects in Downtown: 
1.
We have noticed that most projects proposed in and around Downtown appear to share similar 
design characteristics that diverge from established building patterns.  
2.
We have noticed that developers appear confused and conflicted by the design guidance and their 
muddled design proposals reflect that confusion and conflict. 
3.
We are concerned that the truly important issues of contextual responsibility and urban continuity 
are not being addressed.   
4.
We are concerned that absent traditional characteristics and consistent patterns that define urban 
commercial architecture, the intended compatibility with the historic Downtown core will not be 
achieved.  
5.
We ask that development projects proposed for the greater Downtown area be reviewed by qualified 
historic preservation architects for design compatibility and contextual continuity. 
6.
We ask that qualified historic preservation architects experienced in writing design guidelines for 
Downtowns and historic districts, be engaged to prepare new design guidelines for Downtown San 
Mateo.  
7.
We ask that planning staff consult Redwood City’s 2011 Downtown Plan which provides a good 
model for appropriate architectural character types and styles. 
8.
We are concerned that if the current process continues without intervention, the result will be - as 
the city’s Alternative Analysis warned - “development incompatible with the existing historic fabric 
surrounding the Downtown Historic District.”  It is an outcome no one wants. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
1
8
409 of 517

--- page 410 ---
bd Ee] SAN MATEO June 6, 2023

Mad HERITAGE ALLIANCE

Downtown possessés a diversity of building types and architectural styles spanning over a hundred
years. Yet the myriad of buildings proposed for Downtown lack the necessary style references to the
rich architectural context of the Downtown environment. All share a disconcertingly similar appearance
that challenges the very meaning of compatibility with the established Downtown character, predominant
building typology, and architectural pattern of development.

San Mateo Heritage Alliance remains committed to working with the City of San Mateo to ensure and
encourage new development that is compatible and complimentary to the Downtown Historic District.

We would welcome the opportunity to meet soon, perhaps in the next couple of weeks, to discuss our
concerns and offer our input and assistance in helping to craft regulations that meet contemporary
needs while strengthening Downtown’s historic sense of place.

We will call you in a few days to set a meeting date. Thank you.

Sincerely,

San Mateo Heritage Alliance Designing in context

Keith Weber, Aragon means providing

Dianne Whitaker, North Central .

Laurie Watanuki, Central enough visual

Mike Nash, Baywood linkages between
existing buildings

Attachments:

and a proposed
project so as to
create a cohesive

Appendix A: Issues of Concern

Appendix B: Proposed New Construction in a Historic Context

overall effect. The
new building should
strengthen and
enhance the

characteristics of its

setting.

- Richard Hedman,
Fundamentals of Urban
Design

www.smheritage.org Page 2 of 8

410 of 517


--- page 411 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Appendix A 
Issues of Concern 
Compatibility and Typology 
Downtown San Mateo has a wide variety of architectural styles and building typologies that provide the 
setting and establish the context for new development.  The Downtown Specific Plan and Downtown 
Design Guidelines direct new development to be “compatible” with the existing building fabric. 
Main Streets and commercial Downtowns nationwide are all recognizable and familiar to us because 
they share a set of common typological characteristics and compositional vocabulary. They are formally 
consistent, stylistically diverse, and able to accommodate functional change. In his seminal book, The 
Buildings of Main Street: A Guide to American Commercial Architecture, noted architectural historian 
Richard Longstreth traces the evolution of the compositional vocabulary used in every American Main 
Street over the past two centuries and presents a method of identifying building characteristics 
commonly found in central commercial districts up to the mid-20th century. In so doing, Longstreth 
helps us understand how to make planning decisions shaped by historical perspective rather than 
current aesthetic preference. 
Architectural Style and Unified Design 
Successful and enduring buildings generally have one unified architectural style that integrates the entire 
building in one harmonious composition. The proposed projects, however, disregard this practice, giving 
the upper floors a completely different design appearance than the lower floors.  The effect is one of 
confused discord rather than unity and harmony.  
Redwood City has addressed the issue of creating architectural character in new projects compatible 
with the established architectural patterns in their Downtown by creating architectural “Character 
Zones.”  Within these zones, different “Character Types” - Neoclassical, Victorian, Craftsman, 
Mediterranean, Art Deco, and Contemporary are permitted.   
These Architectural Character Types are intended to reinforce both the predominant eclectic nature of 
building fabric in the Downtown area, and the strong preferences for an appropriate aesthetic for all new 
buildings and development.  SMHeritage believes this type of approach is appropriate and would like to 
encourage its use in Downtown San Mateo to help ensure that new development is compatible and 
complementary to the historic resources. 
Massing 
Massing, more than any architectural detail, has the most impact on the eye.  Consequently it is one of 
the most important design considerations.  The multiple masses and volumes of most of the proposed 
projects, however, read like an assortment of different size shipping boxes rather than unified 
architectural compositions. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
3
8
411 of 517

--- page 412 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Building Corners 
Generally, buildings in an urban context should maintain a consistent street wall along their street 
frontages.  Corner towers and recessed corner entries are widely used to emphasize the corner of a 
building at specific intersections and to capture pedestrian traffic.  But to eliminate the corner altogether, 
or replace it with a multi-story glass box as some of the projects do, does more to diminish the 
streetscape and urban experience than to enhance it.   
Daylight Plane 
Building heights in Downtown San Mateo vary from one story to twelve, and in the Historic District from 
one to nine stories.  Street wall frontages for virtually all existing buildings rise up to full height without 
setbacks. Yet, the daylight plane requirement for the entire retail core limits the height of the street 
frontage to one half the street width - generally two to three stories - regardless of the prevailing street 
wall pattern and varied building height allowance of 55 to 75 feet.  
This seems to be a one-size-fits-all requirement that could be 
adjustable and tailored to differing established building patterns in 
different parts of Downtown.   
One successful infill project within the Historic District is 101 
Ellsworth, rising six stories without an upper level setback, 
suggesting that upper floor setbacks may not be the only solution 
for new construction in and around the Historic District. 
Examples of Compatible Downtown Infill Projects 
Four examples of compatible new infill construction are recognizable in Downtown: Century Movie 
Theater, the Transit Center, the Main Street Parking Garage and 101 Ellsworth.  They achieve their 
compatibility primarily because they conform to established commercial building typologies and draw on 
recognizable architectural styles. Inspiration for the new work came from Mediterranean Revival and Art 
Deco styles popular during the 1890-1950 Historic District period of significance, yet the design of each 
building was interpreted in a contemporary way and meets contemporary needs.   
 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
4
8
101 Ellsworth 
Transit Center/Train Station
Century Movie Theater
Main Street Parking Garage
412 of 517

--- page 413 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Appendix B 
Proposed New Construction in a Historic Context 
What is the inspiration behind some of the new infill projects proposed for Downtown?  Do they conform 
to familiar commercial building typologies?  Do they reflect historical precedents and patterns of 
development?  Do they draw on known architectural styles familiar to and popular with the public?  Are 
they respectful to the surrounding community?  Are they worthy of being landmarks themselves in 
50-100 years?  Although there are at least a dozen or more projects that cause us concern, we think the 
eight examples discussed below are sufficient to convey our point.  
* * * 
Paste-on Parody 
Located just east of the railroad in the Downtown support area, Block 21 and 3rd & Claremont seem to 
find inspiration in a controversial preservation technique known as facadism.  Facadism is sometimes 
used to construct a new building behind a historic facade.  In successful examples, the new building is 
completely hidden behind the old facade.  That is not the case here.  
Neither design acknowledges the established  pattern of providing changes to the street fronting facade 
every 25 to 50 feet as advised in the Downtown Design Guidelines.  Neither reflects the essential 
typological or stylistic patterns prevalent in the greater Downtown.  The question is where did the 
developer get the idea these designs would be acceptable or welcomed by the surrounding community. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
5
8
3rd & Claremont
Block 21 
Facadism
Facadism
413 of 517

--- page 414 ---
PD oh | SAN MATEO June 6, 2023

%. HERITAGE ALLIANCE

Cornerless Brick Warehouses

Three projects - 31-57 S. B St. (abutting the Historic District), 405 E. 4th Ave., and 222 E 4th Ave - seem
to draw their inspiration from brick warehouses and factories that proliferated during the mid-19th
century at the height of the industrial revolution. Popular in the mid to late 1800s, they were generally
constructed in the industrial areas of cities, not the Downtown commercial core of urban centers which
featured retail shops, mercantile and business offices.

Although sometimes brick cladding may be the appropriate material, and a few of the oldest Downtown
buildings are brick, the use of brick does not necessarily equate to compatibility with the Historic District
where concrete, stucco, wood and terra cotta were often used. There are some pleasing aspects to all
three projects, but because most of the buildings in the Historic District were built after 1900, and the
majority of those in the 1920s-30s, the appropriateness of this mid-nineteenth century industrial building
type for Downtown is subject to debate. Notably, all three projects have discarded their building
corners, something any respectable warehouse would never do.

; gos
= ———- =

1 ALAA A il, pea

“PURE

222E. 4th Ave.

Brick Warehouses c 1860 - 1890s

Brooklyn Navy Yard,

www.smheritage.org Page 6 of 8

414 of 517


--- page 415 ---
x | SAN MATEO June 6, 2023

. HERITAGE ALLIANCE

Muddlement

Bespoke in the Downtown retail core, and Block 20 in the Downtown support/Gateway area, are both
head scratchers. Block 20 has an intriguing upper level, but it has no design connection to the lower
floors. Why the upper level design doesn’t continue all the way to the street is vexing. The 3-story glass
corner interrupts the continuity of the street wall, eliminating what would normally be a prominent visual
anchor for the building. Firehouse Square in Belmont is a good example of what this project should be.

Located one block from the Historic District, Bespoke appears to be a bundled collage of shapes, forms,
wild ideas and conflicted energy. One section resembles an open parking garage, another looks like an
elongated version of Philip Johnson’s glass house perched atop two brick warehouses separated by a 3-
story glass divider. Both proposals are so muddled it is impossible to guess what they are trying to do.

www.smheritage.org Page 7 of 8

415 of 517


--- page 416 ---
bd Ee] SAN MATEO June 6, 2023

Mad HERITAGE ALLIANCE

Missed Opportunity

The only project within the Historic District, 180 E. Third Ave. makes a good faith effort to find
compatibility. It appears to be inspired by, and tries with insufficient guidance or direction, to follow the
lead of the National Bank of San Mateo, a 1925 Greek Revival design by W. H. Weeks. The new
building, Currently under construction, has pilasters, a classical entablature and some nice brick
detailing. But this is where the compatibility appears to end. The familiar symmetrical tripartite facade
composition and prominent central entry that define this building type and style has been lost, and much
of the compatibility along with it.

480 E. Third Ave. | National Bank of San

Like all the other buildings proposed for Downtown, it is not one building but
two - one anchored to the ground and the other, a different design and
composition, setting awkwardly on top. One wonders why this project did
not draw its inspiration from the 5-story National Register eligible 1929 E.L.
Norberg Medical Arts building diagonally across the street. A missed
opportunity, this project could have and should have been better.

Once the unity of an area is damaged by an ill-
considered project, decades may pass before
the error can be redressed. Once compromised,

the area’s ability to fend off subsequent attacks
upon its design integrity is weakened.
- Richard Hedman,
Fundamentals of Urban Design

www.smheritage.org Page 8 of 8

416 of 517


--- page 417 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Mary Way
Sent:
Tuesday, November 28, 2023 9:44 AM
To:
Linda Ly
Cc:
Manira Sandhir
Subject:
Fwd: Public Comment, Agenda Item 2 at Tonight's Meeting
Attachments:
San Mateo PC - 477 9th Street - HAA & DBL Letter.pdf
 
Public comment for your item Linda. 
Thanks, Mary 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Nick Eckenwiler 
 
Date: November 28, 2023 at 9:41:43 AM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>, Clerk 
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment, Agenda Item 2 at Tonight's Meeting 
 
Good morning, 
 
Please see attached for the California Housing Defense Fund's public comment on agenda item 2 at 
tonight's Planning Commission meeting, concerning a mixed-use project at 477 9th street.  Thank you! 
 
 
--  
Nicholas Eckenwiler 
Staff Attorney 
 
417 of 517

--- page 418 ---
Nov 28, 2023
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
By Email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org, clerk@cityofsanmateo.org
Re: Resolution to approve a new five-story mixed-use building at 477 9th Avenue
Dear Planning Commission,
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter as a public comment on
agenda item 2 at tonight’s Planning Commission meeting, a Resolution to approve the
project on 477 9th Street, a 5-story, mixed-use project with 120 units, including 12 below
market rate units. The Housing Accountability Act (GOV 65589.5) requires approval of zoning
and general plan compliant projects unless findings can be made regarding specific,
objective, written health and safety hazards.
The Housing Accountability Act (the “HAA”) (Gov. Code § 65589.5) requires approval of
zoning and general plan compliant housing development projects unless findings can be
made regarding specific, objective, written health and safety hazards. These findings must
be “supported by a preponderance of the evidence on the record.” (Id. at subd. (j)(1).)
Increased density, concessions, and waivers that a project is entitled to under the Density
Bonus Law (the “DBL”) (Gov. Code § 65915) do not render the project noncompliant with the
zoning code or general plan, for purposes of the HAA. As staff notes, as a mixed-use
development project with at least two-thirds of its area devoted to residential uses, the
project falls within the HAA’s ambit, and, except for concessions under the DBL, it complies
with local zoning code and the City’s general plan. Thus, the Commission must approve the
project and pass the resolution unless it makes written health and safety findings, as
described above – which it cannot do, since the preponderance of the evidence in the record
does not support such a finding. The Commission must pass the resolution to approve the
proposed concessions with respect to maximum density bonus units, reduced floor area
ratio, reduced at-grade open space, and a lower number of compact stalls.
360 Grand Ave #323, Oakland 94610
www.calhdf.org
418 of 517

--- page 419 ---
As you are well aware, California remains in the throes of a statewide crisis-level housing
shortage. New housing such as this is a public benefit; it will bring increased tax revenue,
new customers to local businesses, decarbonization in the face of climate crisis – and most
importantly, it will reduce displacement of existing residents into homelessness or
carbon-heavy car commutes. Projects like this one are especially important in helping our
state meet its climate goals. While no single housing development can solve all these
problems, the project here is a step in the right direction. CalHDF urges the Commission to
approve the Resolution and the project, consistent with both its legal obligations and the
City’s economic and environmental interests.
CalHDF (formerly the California Renters Legal Advocacy and Education Fund, or “CaRLA”) is a
501(c)3 non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for increased access to
housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income households. You may
learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdf.org.
Sincerely,
Dylan Casey
CalHDF Executive Director
2 of 2
419 of 517

--- page 420 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Linda Ly
Sent:
Thursday, November 30, 2023 5:55 PM
To:
Ken A red
Subject:
RE: Planning commission meeting 11/28/23 agenda item 2 , 477 9th Ave
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Completed
Hi Ken, 
 
Thank you for your comments on the 477 9th Ave. project. The Planning Commission meeting was unfortunately 
cancelled this past Tuesday but has been rescheduled for 12/12/23. 
 
For my understanding, can you clarify what was the November 16th meeting with the developer? The BMR distribution 
referenced in the staff report is based on their proposed plans and is consistent with the City's BMR Program 
requirements. I will also follow-up with them to verify. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
     
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Ken A red 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 12:05 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning commission meeting 11/28/23 agenda item 2 , 477 9th Ave 
 
Dear planning commission, 
At a prior presentation on this project on November 16, the developer indicated that the 12 BMR units would be five 
two-bedroom units, five one-bedroom units and two studio. But the staff report on todays meeting indicates (in the 
Project Description) only three two-bedroom units (but increases to seven the one-bedroom units). 
The project should return to the five units for two-bedroom.  
Two-bedroom units are much more valuable to our city, as they provide a place for families with children to live. We 
need to strongly support families with children in BMR units. 
Please insist that they revise their numbers back to the numbers presented on November 16 with five two-bedroom 
units. 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Ken Abreu  
 
Sent from my iPad 
420 of 517

--- page 421 ---
From: Michael 
 
Date: November 28, 2023 at 12:25:09 PM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
 "Killough, Maurine" 
, David Light 
, Francie Souza 
 
Subject: 11/28/23 PA-2022-047 477 9th Avenue Comments 
 
Planning Commissioners - I'm writing in reference to PA-2022-047 477 9th Avenue. The following are my comments:  
 
1. Architectural Style - Really love the Spanish design with the terra cotta and arches - a refreshing change from the myriad 
brick blocks we see everywhere else. More of this, please. 
 
2. Good to see a decent number of two-bedroom units, and of course 12 BMR’s.  The mini dog park, fitness center, club area, 
and open-air roof deck amenities are nice.  Will there be an on-site manager for the residential portion? Might the club area or 
something similar be accessible for our organization's meetings (and/or other community usage)? 
 
3. Parking - 150 on-site parking spaces - 112 for residents, and 38 spaces for office. The parking for 29,207 sf of office may be 
low if you calculate 150 sf for each worker, which would equate to about 195 workers - 1 space for every 4 workers.  Is there a 
developer-supported TDM that will encourage mass transit by providing commuter passes, provide Uber /Lyft passes for 
workers who stay late?  How will parking overflows into the neighborhood be handled if there is not enough on-site parking for 
the office workers or residents? 
 
4. Tree removal - the project proposes to remove 32 trees - a high number, 7 of which are heritage trees.   We need trees now 
more than ever, so older trees should be saved if at all possible. All trees should at a a minimum be replaced - and not with tiny 
saplings, but with more established trees, and I encourage the commission to reject in-lieu fees for trees. Any trees that are 
removed should be preserved until construction permits are issued and financing secured ie the project is imminently going to 
be built.  
 
5. Traffic - 9th Avenue and S Claremont is estimated to increase to LOS E during am peak hours. This needs to be mitigated, as it 
will create unsafe conditions for bikes and pedestrians, at a time when we're trying earnestly to improve bike/ped safety and 
reduce injuries and deaths from automobile collisions. 
 
There were 4 projects mentioned in the analysis:  406 E 3rd, 222 E 4th Avenue, 480 E 4th Avenue, and Block 21.  Has the 
analysis included all the proposed projects?  There are 13 (!!!) other projects which may impact the am and pm readings in the 
future:  405 E 4th Avenue, Kiku Crossing Garage, Bespoke Housing and Talbot’s office, First & B Office /retail, 435 E 3rd Office, 
Post & Bean Mixed use, 180 E 3rd- Mixed use - Office/Housing, Block 20, Fremont Terrace, Gateway Terrace housing projects, 
303 Baldwin (Trag’s) and 1 Hayward Avenue. 
 
Intersections at S Claremont / 3rd and S Claremont / 4th  Avenue were not analyzed but S Claremont / 5th Avenue was 
analyzed.  Therefore the traffic may be coming down S Claremont / 5th Avenue, and S Claremont / 9th Avenue.  We need to get 
the traffic circles installed at 5th and 9th Avenue from Delaware to S Amphlett before the Kiku Crossing Garage opens. 
 
6. I would also like to take the opportunity to question community benefits granted to developers, and the consequences (or 
lack thereof) for not providing said community benefit. I mentioned this because Verkada/Windy Hill promised after-hours 
parking in their garages as a condition of approval and yet it has not been made available, despite bringing it to their attention 
over a month ago. If we're going to allow even more development and make all these concessions, what assurances do we have 
that developers will make good on them, that the city will police them, and that there are consequences for not providing 
agreed-upon benefits? 
 
Thanks - Michael Weinhauer 
 
421 of 517

--- page 422 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Manira Sandhir
Sent:
Tuesday, November 28, 2023 5:29 PM
To:
Eldridge, Karyl
Cc:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia; Linda Ly; Zachary Dahl
Subject:
RE: Question regarding 477 9th Avenue
Hi Karyl, 
 
Thanks for your comments. Believe your question is tied to Housing sites inventory so I wanted to provide a quick 
clarification regarding the housing percentages –  for this project, we use the 15% inclusionary percentage in the 
Housing Element Sites Inventory. The 40% is an aggregate number which accounts for projects with higher percentages 
of affordable housing, including 100% affordable housing projects, such as Kiku, Bespoke, etc. and follows the 
methodology that has been accepted by HCD. I am looping in our Housing Manager Eloiza Murillo-Garcia so you can 
connect with her directly if you have other questions about the Housing Element.  
 
Separately, in case you were planning to join us, please note that we had a last-minute cancellation for Planning 
Commission tonight based on the applicant’s request, and the 477 9th Avenue project has been pushed out to a date 
uncertain. We’ll add you to the interested parties list, so you are notified when this comes back before the Planning 
Commission.  
 
Best regards, 
 
Manira 
 
PS. Moved the Planning Commission to bcc.  
 
Manira Sandhir, AICP 
Interim Deputy Director, Community Development 
650-522-7203 (o) | 650-242-6126 (c)  
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
From: Eldridge, Karyl 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 4:53 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Question regarding 477 9th Avenue 
 
Dear Honorable Planning Commissioners: 
 
There is a question that is nagging me about the project at 477 9th Avenue.  It is this: 
 
The housing element asserts that 40 percent of the new housing over the next cycle will be affordable. This 
project includes only 15 percent. Is this an outlier? If not, how do we expect to get to the 40 percent? 
 
I am not able to be at the meeting this evening but would appreciate some insight into this. It is important that 
our individual steps align with our overall goal, and the current project does not create confidence that we can 
or will achieve the target we have set for ourselves. 
 
Sincerely, 
422 of 517

--- page 423 ---
2
 
Karyl Eldridge 
Vice Chair of One San Mateo 
 
 
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid to 
confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a party to a 
real estate contract via written or verbal communication. 
423 of 517

--- page 424 ---
Linda Ly

From: Paul Krupka

Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 12:25 PM

To: Planning

Subject: Planning Commission Meeting of November 28, 2023 > Item 2 477 9th Avenue

Dear Chair Ebneter and Commission Members,

| support this project and staff recommendation. The project design complements the neighborhood. It provides much-
needed housing, including 12 below-market-rate homes in the very low-income category. It is situated Downtown and
benefits from very good walking, biking, and other non-automobile connections. It contains a suitable number of on-site

parking spaces to augment access.

Thank you,

Paul Krupka (he/him/his)

424 of 517


--- page 425 ---
From:
AnnaMarie Hoos
To:
Planning
Subject:
Agenda item 2
Date:
Tuesday, November 28, 2023 4:05:39 PM
Hello,
I am writing to express my whole-hearted support for the Martin Group's proposal to build
homes, including affordable homes, in San Mateo, the city I call home. 
As a renter, and someone who has struggled to find an affordable place to live in the past, I
hope you will approve this project. We as a city and county and region are desperately short on
housing supply, and this project is a positive step towards remedying that shortfall.
Furthermore, we know that building housing - at all income and affordability levels - is the
primary solution to this challenge. As we have seen with the levelling off of rents in Berkeley,
building housing does eventually pay off and settle rent costs! 
As a public transit user, I also endorse these homes because of their location, with their
proximity to the CalTrain station and short walk to the buses on El Camino Real. 
As a minister who has worked with those precariously housed, I affirm the dedication of 12 of
the units to house vulnerable community members.  
Thank you for your consideration of this matter. I hope this project will be approved. 
Sincerely, 
The Rev. AnnaMarie Hoos 
Member, Peninsula Solidarity Cohort and Faith in Actioin Bay Area 
Associate Rector, Church of the Epiphany  ‍  ‍
she/her/hers
I generally take Fridays as my Sabbath day, which includes stepping away from email. 
epiphanysancarlos.org
425 of 517

--- page 426 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Linda Ly
Sent:
Wednesday, November 29, 2023 5:34 PM
To:
Cc:
Manira Sandhir
Subject:
RE: City Council's performance
Hi Mr. Cendak, 
 
Thank you for your comment on 477 9th Avenue, a proposed five-story mixed-use development project. The Planning 
Commission meeting scheduled last night for the item was cancelled and a new public hearing date is currently pending. 
Staff would like to clarify that the maximum building height allowed on the project site is 55 feet and not three-stories. 
The project’s proposed building height of 53’-6” (plate line) is compliant with Measure Y. More information, including 
project plans, are available on the project website here:  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4620/477-9th-Avenue-
Mixed-Use-Development. 
 
The City’s Building Height Plan is also available online: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/66333/CDD-Planning---Height-Aug-2018. This map shows the 
building height ranges set by Measure Y. 
 
Please let me know if you have further questions on the project or Measure Y. As a courtesy, I’ve moved City Council to 
BCC. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
From: William Cendak 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 2:06 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City Council's performance 
 
Dear Council Members, 
 
I sit here looking at your agenda to authorize a 5 story building on 9th Ave. and the resent flier we 
received concerning installation of neighborhood cell towers.  
I can't understand how out of touch you all are with the community at large, 
we voted for measure "Y" that limits building heights to 3 stories, there has been pushback on the 
installation of the cell towers, yet you merrily go against the will of the residents of our city. 
You all need to be recalled! 
As Gordon Ramsey, "Get out of here." 
426 of 517

--- page 427 ---
2
 
W. J. Cendak   
427 of 517

--- page 428 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Francie Souza 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 2:34 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Bethany Lopez <blopez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments re: PA-2022-047, 477 9th Avenue 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners: 
 
We are residents of Central San Mateo and walk by this property several times a day.  Thank you for the 
overall design, architectural details, colors and layout of the building. It will be a nice addition to the 
neighborhood, complementing our existing older homes and downtown. 
 
A few comments: 
- Please don’t remove trees and level the property until construction permits are issued and financing is 
secured 
- Consider how to preserve the larger heritage trees, and perhaps move the smaller Japanese Maples to 
Central Park or donate to neighbors 
- Street parking will increase in surrounding neighborhoods (we see it already with Verkada & 
construction crews for Kiku). Please plan in advance and add 2 hour parking on S. Delaware and S 
Claremont from 5th to 9th Avenues during weekdays 
- Expect and plan for increased traffic on neighborhood streets, especially with Kiku crossing and other 
projects in the pipeline.  We need traffic circles and other traffic calming measures which have been 
brought up at many other meetings - plan now for what will happen soon…more traffic! 
- Community Benefits provided by Developers need to be monitored - what’s the point if they don’t 
happen and what are the consequences, except for negative consequences to the community? 
 
Thank you for considering our comments. 
 
Tom & Frances Souza 
 
428 of 517

--- page 429 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Linda Ly
Sent:
Thursday, November 30, 2023 6:14 PM
To:
Wendy Lane
Subject:
RE: 477 9th Avenue Mixed Use Project
Hi Ms. Lane, 
 
Thank you for your comments on the 477 9th Ave. project. This will be added to the record for the project and forwarded 
to the Planning Commission for consideration as well. Please note that the project has been rescheduled for the 
December 12, 2023, Planning Commission meeting. 
 
Staff would like to point out that the project is subject to various State laws, including the Housing Accountability Act, 
which limits the City from reducing the proposed density or denying the project, if all objective standards are met. The 
project currently meets all applicable objective standards, including the maximum building height (55 ft). The applicant 
has also requested two concessions to increase the floor area ratio and reduce at-grade open space under the State 
Density Bonus Law. Lastly, the State recently passed AB 2097, which removes minimum parking requirements for 
projects located within a half-mile of a major transit stop. 
 
I am available tomorrow, Friday to return your call if you’d like to discuss further. Otherwise, you are encouraged to join 
us for the December 12th public hearing. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Wendy Lane 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2023 12:28 PM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 477 9th Avenue Mixed Use Project 
 
Hi, Ms. Ly. I am the owner of a duplex at 9th and Delaware, very close to where the proposed  mixed use project is.  I 
was greatly disappointed that last night's meeting was cancelled. 
 
I attended a neighborhood meeting (via Zoom) in April and many of us raised concerns about the scale of the project: 
 
- The proposed building height (5 stories) is in no way keeping with the character of the immediate neighborhood (made 
up of generally one and two story homes and buildings). It is much too tall. Even three stories would be an outlier on 
that block. This will have negative impacts on our neighborhood character, esthetics, sunlight, trees, open space, and, of 
course, property values. Most of us chose to live/buy here because we love living in a quiet neighborhood without tall 
buildings.  
429 of 517

--- page 430 ---
2
 
- Removal of many more trees (32 -- including 7 of which are protected) than will be replanted (19) is a negative from 
many standpoints --esthetics, public health, property values, etc.  An "in-lieu fee payment" is frankly a shameful way to 
get around this. Why are the seven trees called "protected" when they are not being protected? Pulling out trees will 
seriously impact the character and value of the neighborhood.   
 
- It also appears that the developer wants an exception made to the maximum floor area ratio and open 
space requirements. Again, why have those standards if developers can just buy their way out of them? 
 
- 120 units will bring a flood of new residents, which will have an enormous negative impact on parking. While I note 
that some onsite parking would be provided, I expect it won't be nearly enough for all residents and all employees of the 
businesses located in the building, plus residents' guests, business visitors/customers, service people, etc. Many of us 
who live on that street will be pushed out of our parking spaces near/in front of our properties -- including elderly and 
disabled people, as well as young families with small children who should have safe and easy access to their homes from 
the curb.  
 
I am extremely disappointed to see that NONE of our input from that April meeting seems to have been considered. The 
project looks like it's moving ahead with no changes whatsoever from what we were presented in April. Is that correct? 
How can I get answers to my concerns and share my input with someone who may actually take this input into 
consideration? 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
Wendy Lane 
 
430 of 517

--- page 431 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Adam Klafter 
Sent:
Monday, December 4, 2023 2:26 PM
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: November 28, 2023 - Planning Commission Cancellation
Ms. Ly, 
 
Thank you for your response. I will try to attend the upcoming meeting. The preliminary arborist report does appear to 
echo some of my own concerns, and the design as currently drawn does not appear to respond to all of the 
recommendations from the report (L-5.5, page 6). This would include providing for an adequate tree protection zone 
during construction that takes into account the full root system (L-5.8 page 8), the possible need to further trim back the 
canopy to erect scaffolding which would have both visual and health impacts, and the limited amount of permeable 
surface at the base of the tree.  
 
On that last point, I observe that there is a section of motorcycle parking beneath the tree right now. Perhaps the city 
could look into removing or shifting that parking to the side and creating a larger bulb-out underneath the tree to 
provide more exposed soil and assist with tree health, especially if the project applicant is unwilling to do so on the 
sidewalk side. Something for the City Arborist to consider. 
 
I would like to reiterate that I support this project as a whole, and simply believe that the continued presence and good 
health of this substantial Heritage Tree adds value to the project, and hope that it is successfully safeguarded through 
this process, to be appreciated for many years to come. 
 
Regards, 
 
-Adam Klafter 
 
 
On Fri, Dec 1, 2023 at 11:41 AM Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Adam, 
  
Thank you for your past and recent comments on the 477 9th Ave. project. Your comments have been added to the 
record for the project and will be considered by the Planning Commission as well. 
  
Staff would like to point out that a preliminary tree protection plan proposed by the applicant shows fencing around 
the S. Claremont Street tree. This is the Tree Protection Zone and no construction activity (i.e. trenching, utility lines, 
pipe, excavation, etc.) is allowed in that zone per City regulations. Our City Arborist will require an updated Arborist 
Report showing more protection details during the building permit stage to ensure that the Oak tree can remain 
throughout construction. You are encouraged to review the Preliminary Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan in the 
latest plan set– please go Sheet L-5.2 or page 52 of the PDF document (link). 
  
431 of 517

--- page 432 ---
2
Lastly, this project has been rescheduled for the December 12, 2023 Planning Commission meeting. We hope you can 
join us at that meeting. 
  
Have a nice day. 
  
Thanks, 
Linda 
  
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
From: Adam Klafter 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2023 2:51 PM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: November 28, 2023 - Planning Commission Cancellation 
  
Hello, 
  
I just got this notice and was reminded of my previous letter regarding the heritage tree on South Claremont at the 
edge of the subject property. Looking at the latest plans which have not changed substantially, I maintain my opinion 
that construction activity within the drip line and root zone of the tree is likely to cause it irreparable harm. You may 
also refer to my previous email. 
  
Respectfully, 
  
432 of 517

--- page 433 ---
3
-Adam Klafter 
  
  
On Tue, Nov 28, 2023 at 5:25 PM Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Good evening, 
  
You are receiving this email because you have expressed interest or submitted a public comment for 477 9th Avenue, 
New Five-Story Mixed-Use Project. Please be advised that the Planning Commission meeting scheduled tonight 
11/28/2023 has been cancelled. City staff will notify you and prepare a new public notice once a new date is 
confirmed. We apologize for the inconvenience. Please feel free to contact me directly with any questions. Thanks 
again for your continued interest in the project. 
  
  
M EETING CANCELLATION - TUESDAY, NOV. 28, 2023 
The Planning Commission meeting scheduled for Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2023 at 7 p.m. has been cancelled.
The item regarding 477 9th Avenue, New Five-Story Mixed-Use Project (PA-2022-047) is continued 
to a date uncertain. 
Best regards, 
Linda 
  
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
433 of 517

--- page 434 ---
4
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the use 
of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this 
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original 
sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your 
computer. Thank you.  
434 of 517

--- page 435 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Kenneth E Abreu 
Sent:
Tuesday, December 5, 2023 8:02 PM
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: Planning commission meeting 11/28/23 agenda item 2 , 477 9th Ave
Attachments:
HLC Development Endorsement Application - UPDATED 2023.pdf
HI Linda, 
Just wanted to  get back to you on the questions you asked.  
The meeting with the developer on November 16th was with the Housing Leadership Council (HLC) Endorsement 
Committee. The Application for Endorsement that was provided for the meeting is attached. It indicated the 5 two-
bedroom units, not 3. 
After I  raised this concern, HLC staff got back to the developer and the developer  explained  that he “unknowingly 
presented outdated information” to HLC at the 11/16 meeting. 
So, my original email (11/28) to the Planning Commission (PC)  is still my recommendation on what the Planning 
Commission should do.  
HLC can provide you their own current thinking on the project.  
I'd also request that you share this email exchange between you and me with the PC so they know the latest information. 
If you have any more questions, let me know. 
Thanks you, 
Ken Abreu 
 
 
 
On Thursday, November 30, 2023 at 05:55:13 PM PST, Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:  
 
 
Hi Ken, 
 
Thank you for your comments on the 477 9th Ave. project. The Planning Commission meeting was unfortunately 
cancelled this past Tuesday but has been rescheduled for 12/12/23. 
 
For my understanding, can you clarify what was the November 16th meeting with the developer? The BMR distribution 
referenced in the staff report is based on their proposed plans and is consistent with the City's BMR Program 
requirements. I will also follow-up with them to verify. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Ken A red 
 
Sent: Tuesday, November 28, 2023 12:05 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning commission meeting 11/28/23 agenda item 2 , 477 9th Ave 
 
Dear planning commission, 
At a prior presentation on this project on November 16, the developer indicated that the 12 BMR units would be five two-
bedroom units, five one-bedroom units and two studio. But the staff report on todays meeting indicates (in the Project 
Description) only three two-bedroom units (but increases to seven the one-bedroom units). 
435 of 517

--- page 436 ---
2
The project should return to the five units for two-bedroom. 
Two-bedroom units are much more valuable to our city, as they provide a place for families with children to live. We need 
to strongly support families with children in BMR units. 
Please insist that they revise their numbers back to the numbers presented on November 16 with five two-bedroom units.
Thank you for your consideration, 
Ken Abreu 
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message 
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender 
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. 
Thank you. 
 
436 of 517

--- page 437 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
1 
Application for Endorsement 
 
The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) fully supports new construction of 
affordable housing, and is dedicated to recognizing excellent proposals by providing formal 
endorsements. This document includes requirements and benefits of the HLC endorsement 
process. 
 
HLC only endorses high-quality projects that demonstrate a dedication to affordability. HLC will 
not consider any project for endorsement if it does not include any deed-restricted, 
below-market-rate units. 
 
An endorsement by HLC will include the following elements of support. 
● A written letter of support addressed to local decision makers.  
● Oral testimony by a staff member (usually the HLC Executive Director) in support of the 
project at entitlement hearings. 
● Community outreach to the extent practicable, intended to organize community 
members (e.g. residents, employees, seniors, veterans) to speak in support during 
entitlement hearings, and send emails to decision makers. 
 
To request an endorsement by HLC, please complete, sign and return the form on the next 
page along with relevant project information. If your project meets the requirements for 
endorsement, HLC’s Endorsement Committee will convene to review the project.  
 
 
 
 
437 of 517

--- page 438 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
2 
 
 
Application for Endorsement 
Applicant Information 
 
Developer name:     ____________________________________________________________ 
 
Developer address: ____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
Contact name:         ____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Phone:  
         ____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
Email:  
         ____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Project Information  
 
Working title:          ___________________________________________________________ 
 
Address: 
         ___________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         ___________________________________________________________ 
 
APN#:  
         ___________________________________________________________ 
 
Please attach a current application package that includes detailed entitlement status, project 
information, and architectural plans. 
 
 
Affordability 
 
Total number of units: ______________________ 
 
The developer is hereby committed to including ______ (#) deed-restricted, below market rate 
units in the project. 
 
Please provide the breakdown of units. Please note specific percentages: 
1970 Broadway, Suite 745 | Oakland, CA 94612
Stephen Siri
The Martin Group  dba SM Martin Developer, LLC
415-429-6044
Stephen@themartingroup.com
Arbello
477 9th St, San Mateo, CA 
120
12
APN: 033-281-130
438 of 517

--- page 439 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
3 
 
 
<30% AMI 
___________ 
30-50% AMI 
__________ 
50-80% AMI 
___________ 
80-120% AMI 
___________ 
Market Rate: 
Studio 
 
 
 
 
 
1 BR 
 
 
 
 
 
2 BR 
 
 
 
 
 
3 BR 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What is your city/jurisdictions inclusionary housing rate:  
 
Labor 
 
Please tell us what you can do for labor. (Examples: 80% union construction; 100% prevailing 
wage, etc.)  
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Community Issues and Challenges 
 
Are there any homes located on the site? If yes, how will your organization factor them into its 
proposal?  
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
What do you see as the key challenges faced by this project? 
Very Low
2
5
5
12
Our project is privately funded with no union or prevailing wage specific requirements.
We intend to openly bid the job and select contractors (union or non union) based on their 
bid quality and price which align with the project's vision and financial feasability. 
No. The site is currently an old one story office building with surface parking.
439 of 517

--- page 440 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
4 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
Signed 
 
 
 
Signature: 
 
__
__________ 
 
Date:  
 
_______________________ 
 
Please submit this application and attachment to kchan@hlcsmc.org. Thank you for your time 
and contributions to affordable homes! 
 
Attachment: 
 
Current Project Application Package 
San Mateo like many cities has several advocacy groups which do not support new development. 
Our project is utilizing state density bonus law to increase our density and on-site affordability.
roof top deck and courtyards. We are transit oriented located 0.5 miles from Caltrain. Arbello
is located adjacent to downtown San Mateo with a plethora of retailers, employers who will benefit from this 
project. The project is sustainably designed to CalGreen standards and will be all electric.
11/9/2023
Arbello will provide 120 mixed-incomeapartments and 27K of office with on-site parking, fitness center, club house
440 of 517

--- page 441 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 12, 2023 4:03 PM
To:
Cc:
Linda Ly; Manira Sandhir; Ashley Snodgrass
Subject:
RE: Agenda item 2 comment
Hello Stephen, 
 
Thank you for your email. Your comment has been received and will be distributed to the Planning Commission for their 
consideraƟon this evening. 
 
Regards, 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
      
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Stephen Floor 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 12, 2023 8:55 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Agenda item 2 comment 
 
Hello,  
 
I am a San Mateo resident and am wriƟng in favor of the proposed project at 477 9th Avenue. This is an outstanding 
locaƟon for new housing in San Mateo by converƟng an oﬃce space into a mixed-use building. I am excited that this 
conversion preserves oﬃce space but also adds housing, especially in this area that is very walkable to downtown and to 
public transit. I am especially supporƟve of the 12 aﬀordable units. I strongly support the proposed development. 
 
Thank you, 
Stephen Floor  
441 of 517

--- page 442 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 12, 2023 12:02 PM
To:
Cc:
Linda Ly; Manira Sandhir; Ashley Snodgrass
Subject:
RE: Support Letter - Agenda Item #2 - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Attachments:
Support 477 9th Avenue - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County.pdf
Hi Ken, 
 
Thank you for your email. Your comment leƩer has been received and will be distributed to the Planning Commission 
prior to tonight's Public Hearing. 
 
-Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Ken Chan 
  
Sent: Monday, December 11, 2023 6:36 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support Letter - Agenda Item #2 - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission Members, 
 
Please see the attached letter regarding Agenda Item #2 (477 9th Avenue), which will be discussed at tomorrow's 
(12/12/2023) Planning Commission Meeting. 
 
Kind Regards, 
Ken Chan 
 
--  
Ken Chan (he/him) 
Senior Organizer 
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
 
Schedule a meeting with me 
www.hlcsmc.org 
 
442 of 517

--- page 443 ---
December 11, 2023
San Mateo Planning Commission
San Mateo City Hall
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Re: Support 477 9th Avenue - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Dear Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission,
The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) works with our communities and
their leaders to produce and preserve quality affordable homes.
On behalf of HLC, I’m writing to express our support for the downtown adjacent, 477 9th Street
proposal by The Martin Group - which is set to include 120 new homes, 12 of which will be
affordable for your community members who are making between 30 - 50% of area median
income. Given their location, these homes can play a crucial role in enhancing downtown
vibrancy. They offer your residents the option to use Caltrain for their daily commute, and, most
importantly, provide a secure and stable home for at least 12 of your most vulnerable community
members.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment and we urge you to support the 477 9th Street
proposal and to move it forward to your leaders on the City Council for a decision.
Sincerely,
Ken Chan
Senior Organizer
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
• hlcsmc.org
443 of 517

--- page 444 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 12, 2023 4:37 PM
To:
Cc:
Linda Ly; Manira Sandhir; Ashley Snodgrass
Subject:
RE: Agenda Item 2
Hello Sophia, 
 
Thanks for your email. Your comment has been received and will be distributed to the Planning Commission for their 
consideration this evening. 
 
-Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Sophia Heath 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 12, 2023 1:47 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Agenda Item 2 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Sophia Heath and I am a resident of the city of San Mateo.  
 
I want to let you know that I strongly and wholeheartedly approve of the proposal by The Martin Group. These homes 
have the potential to allow 12 of our most vulnerable community members to live within walking distance to their 
places of employment, or public transit. Moreover, these homes can potentially help the city push back against the jobs-
housinig imbalance we're all currently facing. Please vote in favor of affordable housing.  
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
 
Sophia 
444 of 517

--- page 445 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Michelle Gotera
Sent:
Monday, December 18, 2023 11:12 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
FW: I support the proposal by the Martin Group - of 120 new homes in San Mateo
Hi Rendell, 
 
Not sure if this one was captured last week.  See email below. 
 
From: Susan Ketcham 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 12, 2023 7:09 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: I support the proposal by the Martin Group - of 120 new homes in San Mateo 
 
Hello Planning Commission, and  City Council member Loraine – 
 
I would like to voice support for the proposal by the Martin Group, to build 120 new homes in San Mateo.  I am 
a resident and home owner in San Mateo city, and I strongly support 
more housing to be built , and more density, in all parts of San Mateo city.   Thank you for bringing this 
proposal forward! 
 
The creation of the 120 new homes will help with the imbalance we have between jobs and housing.  The 
location , near public transportation is great.  And to have 12 of these homes be affordable , will be  terrific way 
to support 
those working and struggling in our community.  I am really pleased that the proposal is being considered.  
 
Count me as a supporter, of this project. And future projects to increase housing and increase density in our 
wonderful city. 
 
Thank you for the work you do, in planning  - both in housing specifically and in the General Plan.  I appreciate 
it! 
 
Best regards,  Susan K.  
 
 
 
Susan Ketcham 
 
 
 
 
445 of 517

--- page 446 ---
From:
Michelle Maccarra
To:
Planning; Lisa Diaz Nash; Rob Newsom; Adam Loraine; Richard Hedges; Amourence Lee
Subject:
Please Save the Heritage Trees of San Mateo
Date:
Wednesday, December 13, 2023 10:59:48 AM
Good morning,
My 8 year old son and I both spoke during the planning commission meeting
last night to save the heritage trees at 477 9th Avenue. Taking out 32 trees and
7 heritage trees clearly goes against the laws that the city has put in place
around tree preservation as seen below.  As I stated during the meeting, the
majority of the heritage trees at 477 9th Avenue are on the perimeter of the
building site, and the builder should be required to make special
accommodations to save these heritage trees, and pay to relocate other
smaller trees that are located throughout the property.
A few points I did not have time to mention during the meeting are below:
As stated in the City of San Mateo Law Library:
Chapter 27.71 LANDSCAPE FOR PLANNING APPLICATIONS
27.71.150 Preservation of Existing Trees:
(e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. The site design shall make every
reasonable effort to preserve Heritage Trees, consistent with Chapter
13.40. Conditions shall also be imposed to protect Heritage Trees during
construction. Heritage Trees shall be removed only when the City
Arborist determines that their preservation would result in a threat to
health, safety, and welfare due to a hazardous tree condition, impacts on
soil erosion and stability, or an unreasonable effect upon the economic
enjoyment of the property, consistent with Chapter 13.40.
(f) Protection of Existing Trees. The site design shall make reasonable
effort to protect existing trees. The design shall be evaluated as to how it
protects existing trees or the reasons for removal of existing trees. Tree
protection measures shall be provided for trees to remain on-site, which
shall be consistent with Chapter 13.40 and imposed as a condition of
approvals.
(g) Alternates to On-Site Replacement. If the required LU value for
replacement of existing trees to be removed is not made up with replacement
trees on-site, the City shall require that trees be planted in another location on-
site or off-site or a contribution of funds be made to the City to be used for
plantings on public land or a combination of the above options. If a contribution
of funds is required, it shall be the fee as established by resolution of the City
Council in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
446 of 517

--- page 447 ---
________________________________________________________________
The English poet William Blake observed, "The tree which moves some to
tears of joy is in the eye of others only a green thing which stands in the way."
The truth of this statement is especially tragic when it comes to heritage trees.
The disappearance of special trees right in our own communities is alarming.
When heritage trees succumb to storms or old age, that is one thing. When
they are destroyed by neglect or development or other human causes, it is
quite another. Saving our heritage trees is a job for tree boards everywhere,
but it is also a job for every individual who reveres the past and cares about the
future. 
Saving heritage trees extends a link across generations. It helps develop
values for things beyond material, values almost of a spiritual nature. It also
reminds us, as expressed by Arbor Day Founder J. Sterling Morton, "Each
generation takes the earth as trustees." "Passing along a community's special
trees is part of that responsibility as temporary stewards."
By removing these trees, the builder is seeing a short term gain in their
pocketbook, but San Mateans are experiencing a long term loss. Please make
every effort to save these trees. As new development moves into San Mateo,
more and more of these trees are being threatened, and soon they will all be
gone - the landscape will be forever changed. Not only are trees good for
public health, but they also solve so many of the urban issues our city is
currently dealing with: rising temperatures, air pollution, flooding, and the list
goes on. Please do the right thing and preserve these trees for current
residents and future generations to come.
PLEASE SAVE OUR HERITAGE TREES!
Thank you,
Michelle Maccarra
 
 
447 of 517

--- page 448 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Laurie Watanuki 
Sent:
Wednesday, December 20, 2023 4:55 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Planning Commission; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
PA - 2022-047 - 477 - 9th Avenue
December 20, 2023 
 
Dear Mayor Diaz-Nash and City Council Members, 
 
We were very pleased that the San Mateo Planning Commission unanimously approved the new 
project 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use Development at the corner of 9th Avenue and Claremont on 
Tuesday, December 12. There was much discussion by the public and the commissioners of the 
need to remove 32 trees, including 7 heritage trees during the meeting. The majority of the 
heritage trees at 477 9th Avenue are on the perimeter of the building site. We hope that The 
Martin Group attempts to save all these heritage trees and relocate smaller trees to Central Park 
or another public site. Oak trees take 100 years to fully develop and can live to 1000 years! It is 
good that there is agreement to save two trees, but we especially encourage the City of San 
Mateo and the developer to work together to save another heritage tree, Coast Live Oak #19. 
In the arborist’s report, tree #19 is described as a protected Coast Live Oak with a 37 inch trunk 
in less than average condition with low suitability for preservation due to, “Enlarged abnormal 
buttress roots on the north side; heavy lateral limbs over road on south; sparse canopy; dieback; 
river rocks over roots and against trunk.” We feel that the rational response from an arborist 
would be to first recommend removing those river rocks as soon as possible! In addition, there is 
awful plastic synthetic grass covering the ground all around close to this tree. We feel that 
removing the rocks and plastic covering, surrounding the tree with bark mulch as in Central Park 
and allowing the roots to breathe will allow this tree to recover and live a long life. 
Many commissioners expressed a desire to save more heritage trees and some even mentioned 
Tree #19. Seema Patel was the only commissioner who did not support preserving Tree #19 and 
her two reasons were the tree’s condition and the fact that it will be in the middle of the wide 
sidewalk and may represent an accessibility issue. As to her first point, as discussed above, the 
City of San Mateo should act now with the developer and current owner of the property to 
improve the quality of life of the Coast Live Oak by removing the rocks and plastic. As to her 
second concern, the planned sidewalk is wide enough to allow wheel chairs to go around the tree 
and if not, minor changes to the design can easily accommodate both the tree and wheel chairs. 
Separately, Commissioner Patel expressed concern about young people on bicycles and scooters 
traveling downhill on 9th Avenue from the train tracks need to be protected from cars exiting the 
project. Creatively designing a walkway around this majestic tree in the middle will also help to 
control such traffic on the sidewalk and help alleviate this concern. 
Finally, we would like the Planning Commission to consider making the following as standard 
procedures for this project and future projects. Any trees that must be removed from a project 
site should be replaced by more mature trees and not small saplings. No trees should ever be 
removed without a permit and never prematurely before construction permits are issued and 
construction is imminent, to avoid what has happened with the Block 21 project. 
There are many benefits for the City of San Mateo to put in the effort to preserve Coast Live Oak 
#19. Please, ask some of the creative planners in the City Hall staff to take a second look at 
possibilities to also save tree #18 (Oak tree), and tree #3 in the parking area. 
 
Thank you! 
 
Michael Weinhauer 
Maurine Killough 
David Light 
Francie Souza 
Laurie Watanuki 
Evan Powell 
Lisa Vande Voorde 
Joe Daly 
Diane Daly 
Linda Simonsen 
Wilfredo Aguilar 
448 of 517

--- page 449 ---
2
Rowan Paul 
Tom Souza 
George Derby 
Olya Derby 
Ivana Sebastian 
 
 
449 of 517

--- page 450 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Linda Ly
Sent:
Thursday, January 4, 2024 11:36 AM
To:
l watanuki
Cc:
Subject:
RE: Question
Attachments:
Illustrative Landscape Plan Att 3 - Project Plans-3.pdf
Importantly, here is their proposed landscape plan showing the proposed landscape and tree replanting. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
     
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Linda Ly  
Sent: Thursday, January 4, 2024 11:34 AM 
To: l watanuki 
 
Cc: 
 
Subject: RE: Question 
 
Hi Laurie, 
 
I hope you enjoyed your holidays and start to the new year. I was away when you had emailed, so apologies for the 
response delay. 
 
Trees proposed for preservation at 477 9th Ave. are all trees along the northern and western property line, as well as 
the two Oak trees on Claremont and 9th Ave, which are trees #10 and #17. 
 
Oak Tree #19 conflicts with the building footprint so has been proposed for removal. The Planning Commission 
acknowledged this during the meeting as well. 
 
I've attached the tree disposition plan that was presented if that helps. 
 
Thanks, 
Linda 
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
     
 
450 of 517

--- page 451 ---
2
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: l watanuki 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 20, 2023 8:16 AM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Re: Question 
 
Hi Linda, 
Were you able to find more information on the two Heritage Trees and the status of tree #19?  Did they decide at the 
end of the meeting if #19 could be saved? 
Thanks.  
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
> On Dec 17, 2023, at 5:28 PM, l watanuki <lwatanuki6@gmail.com> wrote: 
>  
> Hi Linda, 
> I have a question regarding the Heritage Trees at 477 - 9th Avenue.  I thought I heard two Heritage Trees would 
remain.  Do you have those 2 tree numbers from the map that will be saved?   What was the status of tree #19? 
> Thanks.  
> Laurie Watanuki 
>  
>  
 
451 of 517

--- page 452 ---
From: Bahrig Mikaelian 
 
Sent: Saturday, February 10, 2024 12:35 PM
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Saving large heritage tree, Coast Live Oak #19
Hello,
I’m a resident of San Mateo County and appreciate the beauty of our communities. Trees are such a
key part of what makes this area desirable: They have been here longer than most of us and will
hopefully continue to be long after we’re gone. 
Please consider saving another large heritage tree, Coast Live Oak #19, seen below. 
It is good that there is agreement to save two trees along 9th Ave, but we especially encourage the
City of San Mateo and the developer to work together to Please keep this tree alive and part of our
community landscape.
452 of 517

--- page 453 ---
We residents will be eternally grateful!
Best,
Bahrig Mikaelian-Deirmendjian 
Sent from my iPhone
453 of 517

--- page 454 ---
From:
Linda Ly
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Save the Heritage Trees
Date:
Thursday, February 15, 2024 10:35:30 AM
-----Original Message-----
From: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Monday, February 12, 2024 10:05 AM
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: Save the Heritage Trees
-----Original Message-----
From: Susan Jung 
Sent: Sunday, February 11, 2024 12:24 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Save the Heritage Trees
477 Ninth Ave
Susan Jung
Sent from my iPhone
454 of 517

--- page 455 ---
NHDF

Feb 20, 2024

City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403

By Email: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org, Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org,
rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org, aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org,
rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org, alee@cityofsanmateo.org

lly@cityofsanmateo.org

Re: Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission's decision to
approve a new five-story mixed-use building at 477 9th Avenue

Dear City Council,

The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter as a public comment on
agenda item 13 at tonight's Council meeting, a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the
Planning Commission's decision to approve the project on 477 9th Street, a 5-story,
mixed-use project with 120 units, including 12 below market rate units. The Housing
Accountability Act (Gov. Code, § 65589.5) requires approval of zoning and general plan
compliant projects unless findings can be made regarding specific, objective, written health
and safety hazards.

These findings must be “supported by a preponderance of the evidence on the record.” (Id. at
subd. (j)(1).) Increased density, concessions, and waivers that a project is entitled to under
the Density Bonus Law (the “DBL”) (Gov. Code, § 65915) do not render the project
noncompliant with the zoning code or general plan for purposes of the HAA. As staff notes,
as a mixed-use development project with at least two-thirds of its area devoted to
residential uses, the project falls within the HAA’s ambit, and, except for concessions under
the DBL, it complies with the local zoning code and the City’s general plan. Thus, the Council
must deny the appeal and approve the project unless it makes written health and safety
findings, as described above — which it cannot do, since the preponderance of the evidence
in the record does not support such a finding. The Council must pass the resolution to

360 Grand Ave #323, Oakland 94610
www.calhdf.org

455 of 517


--- page 456 ---
CauiFornia WILDLIFE
FOUNDATION

California Wildlife Foundation/California Oaks, 20] University Avenue, H-43 Berkelev, CA 94710, (510) 763-0282
February 15, 2024
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
City of San Mateo Planning Department
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Transmitted via e-mail: lly@citvofsanmateo.org
Re: 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use proposed development

Dear Mrs. Ly:

The California Oaks program of the California Wildlife Foundation works to conserve oak
ecosystems because of their critical role in sequestering carbon, maintaining healthy watersheds,
providing plant and wildlife habitat, and sustaining cultural values. California Wildlife
Foundation/California Oaks (CWF/CO) received an inquiry from a City of San Mateo resident
who is concerned about the arboreal impacts of the proposed 477 9th Avenue Mixed-Use
development and the city’s inadequate tree protections. CWF/CO reviewed the City of San
Mateo’s protected tree replacement policies, the November 6, 2023 memorandum prepared by
David J. Powers & Associates, Inc. on the project’s categorical exemption qualification from
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
Assessment for the project (Appendix B), and the Project Plan. This letter focuses on
inadequacies of the city’s native oak protections and tree replacement requirements, deficiencies
of the proposed project’s GHG Emissions Assessment, and potential impacts of the proposed
project on native oak trees that are meant to be left standing for the development, as detailed
below.

The City of San Mateo’s native oak tree protection and replacement policies are
inadequate. The City of San Mateo Tree Work Application form describes protected trees as
“living landmarks and an important component of the quality of life in San Mateo.” It
inaccurately states that the ordinance ensures that “trees will be preserved during construction.”
It enumerates benefits of trees associated with wind and sun protection, privacy, habitat for song
birds, stress reduction, and an estimated $1.4 million in net benefits to the city, which was
calculated by an analysis conducted in 2011. CWF/CO suggests that the City of San Mateo
conduct a current net benefit analysis to understand how weak protections and inadequate
mitigation for tree removals has eroded the city’s mature tree canopy and thereby the city’s
livability.

The Heritage Tree Replacement Requirements detailed in the Tree Work Application form of
either one new planting or a $740 in-lieu fee for a tree with a diameter of 10 to 30-inches, and

nee

456 of 517


--- page 457 ---
Trees that are being retained may not survive during construction. The 55th page of the
Project Plan includes the Preliminary Arborist Report. Page 6 of that report notes:

... Trees #11 and #17 are large oaks with construction planned within 10 feet of
their trunk. The planter that contains valley oak #11 is proposed to be expanded
enlarging the growth space at the base. Construction work performed near the
valley oak could result in significant root loss depending on the exact location of
the sidewalk. The canopy of the tree may also need to be reduced to accommodate
a scaffolding during building construction. These actions have the potential to
have a significant impact on the health of the valley oak. Coast live oak #17 may
also experience significant negative impacts, the sidewalk will be moved closer to
the trunk of the tree on one side, and a brick patio area will be installed within ten
feet of the trunk on the other side. These impacts could be significant.

The root protection area, which is half again as large as the area from the trunk to the dripline of
an oak, is critical to oak tree health. Care of California's Native Oaks provides additional
information.

Additionally, proposed landscaping for the site will further imperil the native California oak trees
that are meant to stay standing at the site. An illustration on the 44th page of the Project Plan
shows plantings under an oak tree and Planting Design Notes on the 48th page indicates “all
planted areas are to be watered with an approved underground irrigation system. Very few of the
listed “plant palette” species are appropriate for planting under oaks and lawn irrigation is
detrimental to oak root health as detailed in Care of California's Native Oaks.

Thank you for your consideration of our comments.

Sincerely,
f ( bre [ryan
Janet Cobb Angela Moskow
Executive Officer, California Wildlife Foundation California Oaks Program Director
jcobb@californiawildlifefoundation.org amoskow(@californiaoaks.org

cc: Michelle Maccara, mmaccarra2@gmail.com

457 of 517


--- page 458 ---
Patrice Olds
——— eee EEE em a

From: Chris Macintosh

Sent: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 11:44 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Linda Ly

Subject: Comment re 477 9th Ave., San Mateo

Attachments: 2024-02-19 SAS letter to SM city council re 477 9th.pdf

P.O. Box 620292
Woodside
CA 94062

February 19, 2024

San Mateo City Council
Via email to: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org

Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers,

Sequoia Audubon Society’s mission is to protect native birds and other wildlife and their ecosystems in San Mateo

County.

We are therefore very concerned about the proposed development at 477 9 Avenue, San Mateo. Our concerns include

these:

e We request you to keep more of the native oak trees and to require the developer to reduce the number
removed. These established trees provide the best habitat and food sources for our native birds and pollinators
than do non-native species, however pleasing to human eyes those non-native trees may be. Even multiple
young trees will take a very long time to replace the carbon capture, and habitat, lost by removal of established
Oaks.

e Page 44 of the plans shows an oak with the annotation “planting under existing oak”. Perhaps the
developer is unaware that our native oaks should not have underplantings. Once established, they require no
watering other than what rain falls on them during the rainy season. Some developed areas feature river rocks
under their oaks, out to the dripline: an attractive solution. Additionally, during construction the areas of their
root systems must be identified and protected from damage. Please ensure that these native oaks are treated in
such as way as to ensure their survival, during and after construction.

e Page 45 has a glassed-in room on the roof deck. What plans are there to ensure that bird-safe glass and
bird-safe lighting are used, in order to avoid birds colliding with the glass walls? We urge you to follow Dark Sky
International guidelines for lighting (https://darksky.org/resources/guides-and-how-tos/lighting-principles/).

Thank you,

Sincerely,

458 of 517


--- page 459 ---
P.O. Box 620292
Woodside
CA 94062

% FQU O lA February 19, 2024

AUDUBON SOCIETY

San Mateo City Council
Via email to: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org

Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers,

Sequoia Audubon Society’s mission is to protect native birds and other wildlife and their ecosystems in San
Mateo County.

We are therefore very concerned about the proposed development at 477 9"" Avenue, San Mateo. Our concerns
include these:

We request you to keep more of the native oak trees and to require the developer to reduce the number
removed. These established trees provide the best habitat and food sources for our native birds and
pollinators than do non-native species, however pleasing to human eyes those non-native trees may be.
Even multiple young trees will take a very long time to replace the carbon capture, and habitat, lost by
removal of established oaks.

Page 44 of the plans shows an oak with the annotation “planting under existing oak”. Perhaps the
developer is unaware that our native oaks should not have underplantings. Once established, they
require no watering other than what rain falls on them during the rainy season. Some developed areas
feature river rocks under their oaks, out to the dripline: an attractive solution. Additionally, during
construction the areas of their root systems must be identified and protected from damage. Please
ensure that these native oaks are treated in such as way as to ensure their survival, during and after
construction.

Page 45 has a glassed-in room on the roof deck. What plans are there to ensure that bird-safe glass and
bird-safe lighting are used, in order to avoid birds colliding with the glass walls? We urge you to follow

Dark Sky International guidelines for lighting (https://darksky.org/resources/guides-and-how-
tos/lighting-principles/).

Thank you,

Sincerely,
Chris Macintosh
Conservation Committee, Sequoia Audubon Society

conservation @sequoia-audubon.org

Cc: Linda Ly, Associate Planner, avily@cityofsanmateo.org

459 of 517


--- page 460 ---
Patrice Olds
——_————————_—— So a So og er

From: Emily Morris

Sent: Sunday, February 18, 2024 1:07 PM
To: Clerk

Subject: Public comment on Agenda item 13

Dear San Mateo City Council,
| am writing as a San Mateo resident in support of a proposal by The Martin Group for 120 (12 affordable) homes.

| am part of a dual-earning household in which myself and my partner make a very decent wage, and I can barely afford
to rent here in San Mateo. If | can scarcely afford to live here considering my extensive privilege, how can anyone afford
it?

The truth is that this proposal is just a drop in the bucket and doesn't nearly meet the desperate need

for affordable housing in San Mateo. But it would be some progress, and we very much need to make progress. | love
living in San Mateo and | want to be able to stay here, and | also want to keep San Mateo a diverse, thriving community
where residents can come from multiple races, classes, and cultures. We are quickly hurtling toward a gray, bleak future
in which only a lucky few can afford to live here.

These homes have the potential to help the city push back against the housing imbalance we're all facing at this
moment. Please support this proposal.

Thank you,
Emily Morris

460 of 517


--- page 461 ---
Patrice Olds
Sa a eee

From: Robert Whitehair

Sent: Saturday, February 17, 2024 8:33 AM

To: Clerk

Ce: Ken Chan

Subject: Agenda Item 13 On February 19 City Council Agenda

Dear Mayor and City Council

We ask that the City Council deny the appeal of a Planning Commission approval of a mixed use building at
477 9th Avenue.

Additional housing is desperately needed in San Mateo, as another positive response to the climate crisis.
Housing for very low income residents ($74,600 yearly income for a family of two) is critical. A recent report
from the California Association of Realtors shows that a family income of over $518,400 is needed for the
median priced San Mateo County Home.

Without the 12 affordable units in this project, the housing crisis becomes much worse

Having read the arborist's summary found in the staff report, | learned that many of the heritage trees are in
poor condition and need to be replaced. As the new trees grow and provide all the benefits that the
appellants are looking for, 12 families will no longer face housing problems.

Robert and Teri Whitehair

a}

461 of 517


--- page 462 ---
Patrice Olds
SSS ey

From: Carol Henton

Sent: Saturday, February 17, 2024 1:23 PM

To: Clerk

Ce: Doug Henton

Subject: Agenda Item 13 for Feb. 20 Council Meeting

To members of the San Mateo City Council:

My husband and | strongly support the proposed housing project at 477 9th Avenue in San Mateo. Our city, like nearly
all cities in California, need to develop more residential homes to meet the growing demand for housing for our
expanding citzenry. The 120 proposed units are near public transit and downtown stores, shops and

restaurants. Residents of these homes will often be able to walk or bike to where they need to go. In addition, these
future residents will be near our beautiful Central Park. We urge you to approve this development so that contruction
can get underway.

Carol and Douglas Henton

San Mateo 94402

462 of 517


--- page 463 ---
From:
To:
Gita Dev
Clerk
Cc:
Subject:
Date:
Adam Loraine; Lisa Diaz Nash; Amourence Lee; Richard Hedges; Rob Newsom
Public Comment for Feb 20th City Council Meeting - Please distribute to council members . Thanks!
Tuesday, February 20, 2024 1:42:13 PM
February 20, 2024
th
Public comment for item #13: Appeal regarding removal of heritage trees at 447 9 
Ave
Mixed Use
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash and San Mateo City Council members
My name is Gita Dev and I represent the Sierra Club Loma Prieta chapter’s Sustainable
Land Use Committee. Our members have spoken in support of the Mixed Use housing
project at 447 9th Avenue and especially the affordable housing it will provide.
However, it has been brought to our attention that unfortunately several heritage trees,
including Live Oaks, that we expected could be saved are going to be removed. These are
along the site edges.
Tree Ordinance: "Heritage Trees are living landmarks and an important
component to the quality of life  in San Mateo.”
1. Recreate iconic cluster of three live oaks along 19th using new boxed specimens
of equal value. Our urban biodiversity is sadly facing collapse without a careful approach
to protecting every possible mature tree in our urban canopy.
Live Oaks are a KEYSTONE species ; they support over 100 species of mammals,
bids, insects and plant life. Losing each oak in our city collapses our already
endangered biodiversity even more. Saving, growing and fostering each and every
mature specimen of these keystone trees is critical as it supports our health,
biodiversity, climate and livability.
Trees 17, 18 and 19 are a cluster of three Live Oaks. the three oaks together form an iconic
image  and a habitat island . Only #17, in the foreground, is being saved. (Table on
Drawings L-5.9, L-5.10),
463 of 517

--- page 464 ---
Since the owner is not willing or able to save the other two oaks along the sidewalk (#18
and 19), we request two  replacement oaks, costing the same as the arborist's value,
be provided to replace them, so that the iconic trio of oaks along 9th street is preserved.
This will preserve an oak habitat at the entrance and also be a long-lasting benefit to the
community and a gift to the street. If more sidewalk space is required for the tree wells, The
city can allow a sidewalk bulb-out, just like the one on the north-east side (Claremont
street) at a large tree in the sidewalk being preserved. Since there is no street parking
allowed  in front of the trees anyway, approaching the railroad, the curb can be bulbed out
for a wider sidewalk and improved pedestrian experience along the frontage.
Ø
Per arborist, the value of Live Oaks being removed, #18 and #19, are $11,050
and $12,650 respectively.
Ø
Ø
Speciman 72" boxed live oaks cost only around $10,000.
The total value of trees being removed is $312,400
2. Save large heritage Chinese Elm Tree #3, in good condition, removed for a surface
parking spot at driveway at 19th. A mature and heritage ELM tree is the city’s “Natural
Capital” and worth more than a surface parking space.
Save Tree #3 ($14,500). It is a much larger heritage Chinese ELM than tree #2 Chinese
Elm ($7,250) in the dog park which is fortunately being saved, It is being removed merely to
create a parking spot. It is in good condition. Elm trees offer habitat to a range of native
insects and wildlife that depend on the trees for food, reproduction, and shelter. Small
mammals like squirrels, chipmunks, and oppossums live in elms, as do birds like finches,
chicadees and woodpeckers as well as many insect species lower on the food chain.
City Urban Canopy Master Plan: In this age of climate change as well as collapse of our
biodiversity, urban canopy is a critical defense for our residents and our species as a
whole. An urban tree canopy survey and tree master plan are the only way a city can track
and improve the city’s vital tree canopy for livability, health, climate action plan goals and
for biodiversity health.
We look forward to your favorable response. THANK YOU.
--
464 of 517

--- page 465 ---
Gita Dev
mmittee

465 of 517


--- page 466 ---
From:
To:
Susan Ketcham
Clerk
Subject:
Date:
I am in support of the Martin Group proposal to build new homes ( Agenda item # 13)
Tuesday, February 20, 2024 3:21:42 PM
Hello City Hall folks - re the Agenda Item # 13 of today’s city council meeting, I am in favor
of the proposal to build 120 new homes / housing units in San Mateo.
The Martin Group has done a good job, and I think that this project will help address the
imbalance between jobs and housing locally. I am also pleased to know that
some of the units will be available for our neighbors with limited means: I’m glad that some of
the units will be affordable housing.
The location of the proposal is great, as it is near to transit lines.
I am a home owner in San Mateo city, and I strongly support more housing and more density in
all parts of San Mateo. Thank you for reviewing this proposal, and I am in support of it.
Best regards, Susan Ketcham
Susan Ketcham
466 of 517

--- page 467 ---
HOUSING
LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL

February 20, 2024

San Mateo City Council
San Mateo City Hall
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Support 477 9th Avenue - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,

The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) works with our communities and
their leaders to produce and preserve quality affordable homes.

On behalf of HLC, I’m writing to express our support for the downtown adjacent, 477 9th Street
proposal by The Martin Group - which is set to include 120 new homes, 12 of which will be
affordable for your community members who are making between 30 - 50% of area median
income. Given their location, these homes can play a crucial role in enhancing downtown
vibrancy. They offer your residents the option to use Caltrain for their daily commute, and, most
importantly, provide a secure and stable home for at least 12 of your most vulnerable community
members.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. We urge you to uphold the Planning Commission's
decision and to approve the 477 9th Street proposal.

Sincerely,

Ken Chan
Senior Organizer

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403 + (650) 242-1764 + hicsmc.org

467 of 517


--- page 468 ---
477 9th Avenue
Appeal of Planning Commission Approval of a 
Five Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building
(PA-2022-047)
City Council Public Hearing
February 20, 2024
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
468 of 517

--- page 469 ---
PROJECT HISTORY
2 of 14
January 2022
Pre-Application 
Filed
April / May 2022
Neighborhood Meeting 
and Planning Commission 
Study Session
July 2022
Formal Planning 
Application filed
December 2023
Planning Commission 
Public Hearing 
followed by
filing of Appeal on 
December 21, 2023
February 2024
City Council Public 
Hearing
469 of 517

--- page 470 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
3 of 14
• Site Address: 477 9th Avenue
• One Parcel
• 69,976 sq. ft. (1.6 Acre)
• General Plan: Executive Office
• E2-2 (Executive Office, 2.0 Floor Area Ratio)
470 of 517

--- page 471 ---
4 of 14
• 29,207 sq. ft. of Office Uses
• 120 Residential Units – 15% of base density or 12 Very Low-
Income units
• (24 studios, 64 one-bedroom, and 32 two-bedrooms)
• Five Stories, 53’-6” plate line height
• Total Floor Area: 209,204 sq. ft.
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
471 of 517

--- page 472 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
1.
Removal of Heritage Trees
2.
Consistency with General Plan 
Policy
3.
Environmental Review
5
472 of 517

--- page 473 ---
6 of 14
• 19 existing heritage trees: 
• 8 trees on adjacent properties
• 4 trees on-site to be preserved
• 7 trees on-site to be removed
Oak (Tree #11)
Oak (Tree #17)
473 of 517

--- page 474 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
7 of 14
1.
Removal of Heritage Trees
2.
Consistency with General Plan 
Policies
3.
Environmental Review
• The Appellant:
• The proposed tree removal “is in direct conflict to the 
laws San Mateo has in place around tree preservation” 
under SMMC 27.71.150(e) and “the site design should 
make accommodations to preserve these [heritage] trees 
and all of the additional trees should be transplanted in 
Central Park by the builder.”
• Staff Response:
• SMMC 27.71.150(e) grants tree removal if the tree’s 
health and stability is threatened
• All trees proposed for removal are in direct conflict with 
the proposed building or other site improvement
• The City does not have a program to receive transplanted 
trees
474 of 517

--- page 475 ---
8 of 14
Acacia (Tree #16)
Oak (Tree #18)
475 of 517

--- page 476 ---
9 of 14
Oak (Tree #19)
Chinese Elm (Tree #3)
476 of 517

--- page 477 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
10 of 14
1.
Removal of Heritage Trees
2.
Consistency with General 
Plan Policies
3.
Environmental Review
• The Appellant:
• “The removal of these trees also goes against the 2030 
General Plan”
(General Plan Policy C/OS 6.1: Tree Preservation)
• Staff Response:
• Policy C/OS 6.1 for Tree Preservation: “Tree Preservation. 
Preserve heritage trees in accordance with the City’s 
Heritage Tree Ordinance.”
• This policy focuses on implementation of the City’s 
Protected Tree Ordinance.
• Policy C/OS 6.2 for Replacement Planting, which requires 
significant replacement planting for trees removed.
477 of 517

--- page 478 ---
11 of 14
• 19 replacement trees 
along the project frontages 
and at-grade
• Landscape Unit In Lieu 
Fees of approximately 
$50,325
• 18 additional trees 
proposed within the 
building courtyard (not 
credited)
478 of 517

--- page 479 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
12 of 14
• Appellant:
• Concerns for the project’s “mitigation measures” and 
“many heritage and protected trees have been removed 
in the last few years and this project could represent a 
significant cumulative effect but the analysis needs to be 
completed.”
• Staff response:
• Project is conditioned to conduct tree removal outside of 
the nesting bird period
• Site Development Planning Application requires 
significant replacement plantings and in-lieu fee 
payments
• General Plan 2030 Environmental Impact Review (EIR) 
determined the above measures would reduce impact to 
a less than significant level.
1.
Removal of Heritage Trees
2.
Consistency with General Plan 
Policies
3.
Environmental Review
479 of 517

--- page 480 ---
Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
• Applies to housing development projects where two-thirds of the proposed 
square footage is designated for residential uses
• Local agencies may not deny or reduce the density of a project when it complies 
with all applicable objective standards and requirements, unless the agency 
makes the following written findings:
• That the project would have a “specific adverse impact” on public health or 
safety; and,
• There is no feasible method to satisfactory mitigate or avoid the adverse 
impact.
13 of 14
480 of 517

--- page 481 ---
STAFF RECOMMENDATION 
14 of 14
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning 
Commission's decision to approve the Special Use Permit (SUP), Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for 
a new five-story mixed-use building with office uses and 120 residential units at 
477 9th Avenue, based on the Findings and subject to the Conditions of Approval, 
and find that the project is Categorically Exempt from the California Environmental 
Quality Act pursuant to Section 15332 (In-Fill Development Projects).
481 of 517

--- page 482 ---
February 20th, 2024
477 9th Ave
San Mateo, CA
City Council Meeting
 
482 of 517

--- page 483 ---
About The Martin Group.
The Martin Group brings 40 years Bay Area development experience. 
Specializing in mixed-use housing projects. 
Partnered with BDE Architects and The Guzzardo Partnership, with 
experience in San Mateo.
Local Developer, Family Owned.
Founded in 
1984
24M+
Developed
Sq. Ft.
20,000+ 
Housing 
Units Built
483 of 517

--- page 484 ---
Neighborhood.
Walkable to downtown San 
Mateo. Transit-oriented.
10 mins
484 of 517

--- page 485 ---
Project Statistics.
Balanced growth of mixed-income 
housing and permanent jobs.
Total Residential
Units
120
Office Parking
Spaces
38
Very-Low Income
Units
12
Residential
Parking Spaces
112
Square Feet
Office Space
29,207
Bicycle Parking
Spaces
144
*~8,000 SF Net New Office SF
485 of 517

--- page 486 ---
Community Benefits.
Significant financial and 
community benefits.
Economic
Benefits
~$15M
New Residents
in Local Stores
~195
San Mateo
Housing Goal
1.7%
Permanent Jobs
Created
~136
Affordable
Housing Units
12
Open Space
20K SF
486 of 517

--- page 487 ---
View East on 9th Street.
Timeless Spanish Architecture.
487 of 517

--- page 488 ---
Existing Trees Study.
Careful planning with experts.
488 of 517

--- page 489 ---
Landscape Site Plan.
Public plaza, dog run, courtyard 
and rooftop deck.
489 of 517

--- page 490 ---
Landscape Imagery.
Thoughtful design for an 
enhanced pedestrian experience.
490 of 517

--- page 491 ---
For additional information after the meeting, please contact Stephen@themartingroup.com
Thank you!
Questions?
491 of 517

--- page 492 ---
MARTIN

Appendix


--- page 493 ---
MARTIN

View North from Railroad.

1a3

jae] Ni

493 of 517



--- page 494 ---
View South on Claremont.

ae " 7 Foun ia: if i
_ vA) 2
ee al

494 of 517


--- page 495 ---
MARTIN

Appendix — Elevations.

SHEET NOTES
(1) CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND
(2) cast stone
ia (3) JUUETTE BALCONY, BOLT-ON, HOT-DIP GALY, PTD
rT (6) RAIUNG, HOT-DIP GALV. PTD ARCH BRONZE
T ©) METAL AWNING, NON-RAN THRU
| HHH ie onl i" lm oe HH (©) VINYL NALIN WINDOW FIV ARCH BRONZE
uuu oo ar ig "ita ini af io arr awa yw Q ©) STOREFRONT ARCH ROE
H J UL ae Hy A | B: py vir i wifiat i ee | ee ee! HE | d iis (8) SPANISH TILE ARCH. POTENTIAL ART ELEMENT
GEE gp UR We
‘f i-oe 5 x

e r] 4 = — aa ((0) BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 16°, DEPTH 2”, CAST METAL, SIM.
anna headend 22: 2 Ceo tanduetuntuadsabient yeni | TED
8 oo a ms

rd. ® SLOPED MANSARD ROOF, CONCRETE S-TILE

)} FOAM TRIM, 3° MIN DEPTH, PLASTER FIN.

©) TILE "FAUX' ROOF VENT
ELEVATION -NORTH- CLAREMONT ST 2 (© **sssovcwmonns
rem ® GARAGE OPENING
BUILDING EXTERIOR LIGHT
@ SPANISH TILE GARAGE ELEMENT, COLOR SELECTION TBD
5 KEY PLAN
CLAREMONT
1?
HY a :
ais RAILROAD E
a0 ey
ELEVATION -EAST-9TH AVE 1 =
1" = 30-0" BUILDING ELEVATIONS "1-3-0 AP3.00

495 of 517


--- page 496 ---
MARTIN

Appendix - Elevations.

jive (arn i ih Eee et i |" ig i

ys a Ty ra 7 oe ll

oe A eh oe el a

o) ie y W Waal * Wy.
of oo 2 eee ee rll

ELEVATION-SOUTH 2

1" = 30'-0"

1
we E: am Ee: ee a & fran
a: oe =
il th) oe ee ee Din gE Talal nu
=

A IS
@ tz aae mae La Wiel ;
Li ot 6

ELEVATION - WEST 1
{"= 30-0"

BUILDING ELEVATIONS

SHEET NOTES
(0) CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND

(2) cast stone

(3) .UUETTE BALCONY, BOLT-ON, HOT-DIP GALV, PTO
(6) RAIUNG, HOT-DIP GALV. PTD ARCH BRONZE

(5) METAL AWNING, NON-RAN THRU

VINYL NAIL-FIN WINDOW FIN ARCH BRONZE

(7) STOREFRONT FIN ARCH BRONZE

SPANISH TILE ARCH. POTENTIAL ART ELEMENT
GARAGE ACCESS

BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18°, DEPTH 2°, CAST METAL, SIM.
({}) SLOPED MANSARD ROOF, CONCRETE S-TLE

() FOAM TRIM, 3° MIN DEPTH, PLASTER FIN.

©) TILE "FAUX ROOF VENT

0) RECESSED VINYL WINDOWS

(©) GARAGE OPENING

BUILDING EXTERIOR LIGHT

@® SPANISH TILE GARAGE ELEMENT, COLOR SELECTION TBD
KEY PLAN

CLAREMONT

|

5

<

RAILROAQ x

o
ww 6
—_—

A968 of S47°.0"


--- page 497 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Protecting and 
Improving San Mateo’s 
Urban Tree Canopy is 
Essential to Quality of 
Life in San Mateo 
497 of 517

--- page 498 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
One of the Big Ideas in the San Mateo General Plan 2040:
  “Preserve Nature as the Foundation of the City”
498 of 517

--- page 499 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
San Mateo is Losing 
its Urban Canopy at 
an Alarming Rate
• Over 300 heritage 
trees are cut down per 
year on residential sites
*Per Matthew Fried, City of San Mateo’s Managing Arborist
• Just one development 
approved in 2020, will 
remove 327 trees, 
including 145 heritage 
trees
*Per the Peninsula Heights Tree Preservation Report (Appendix 
B) on the City of San Mateo Website:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/8272
4/APPENDIX-B---Tree-Preservation-Report
499 of 517

--- page 500 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Let’s save 
the trees 
shown in 
green 
(16,18,19)
500 of 517

--- page 501 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Trees Provide 
Countless Benefits…
• Environmental
• Economic
• Public Health
• Beautification
• Community
501 of 517

--- page 502 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Do Not Forget…
502 of 517

--- page 503 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
We Can Work 
Together to Balance 
Housing/Economic 
Growth and Canopy 
Preservation/ 
Growth
     
503 of 517

--- page 504 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Suggested Next Steps
• Save trees 16 (Blackwood 
Acacia), 18, and 19 (Coast Live 
Oaks)
• For every tree removed, plant 
two trees:
• City to identify location and 
(native) species
• Experienced resources 
ready and willing to help!
504 of 517

--- page 505 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
A Modern and 
Robust Tree 
Ordinance is 
Essential
• Protect and expand existing 
canopy
• Maintenance
• Management/Inventory
• Emphasis on native 
species/drought resistant
• Canopy equality 
505 of 517

--- page 506 ---
Internal Use Only Marketing and Sales
Together We Can Protect 
San Mateo’s Urban Canopy
Short Term: 
• Save trees 16, 18 and 19
• Replace each tree being removed 
with 2 trees
Long Term: 
• Implement an objective tree 
ordinance
• Improve social equity
• Create balance
506 of 517

--- page 507 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 24-8458
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2023-24 Mid-Year Budget Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive the 2023-24 Mid-Year Budget Update
BACKGROUND:
This agenda report provides a financial update on the City’s major funds: the General Fund, the Construction Services 
Fund, and the Sewer Fund. It summarizes the City’s mid-year fiscal status by analyzing anticipated revenues and 
expenditures based on data through December 2023, comparing the projections to the current budget for the 2023-24 
fiscal year. The mid-year projections incorporate the final 2022-23 fiscal year results, year-to-date actuals, and other data 
points that were not available when the budget was originally developed.  The primary focus of this analysis is on the 
General Fund, the City's primary operating fund, accounting for many tax revenues and funding essential city services.
General Fund 
General Fund Revenues 
The City’s 2023-24 budget anticipated a moderate pace of continued economic growth.  With over half of the fiscal year’s 
actual transactions analyzed, the City’s General Fund revenues are now projected to exceed the 2023-24 budget by $2.2 
million.  
The amended 2023-24 budget assumes total revenues of $159.3 million.  Based on year-to-date results through December 
2023, the total revenues are projected to be $161.5 million. Many of the increases came from better-than-expected 
revenues from fees and charges for services, which offset the downward adjustments in sales tax, property transfer tax, 
and transient occupancy tax.  
The detailed analysis below provides insight into the primary contributing factors to the overall favorable budget variance.
 
PROPERTY TAX - $78.0M ADOPTED | $78.4M PROJECTED 
Property tax remains the largest and most stable revenue source for the General Fund.  The projected property tax 
revenue for 2023-24 is $78.4 million, based on the latest information from the County of San Mateo, resulting in a 
favorable budget variance of $0.4 million.
507 of 517

--- page 508 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Two major uncertainties for this revenue source are the recent slowdown in the real estate market and the property tax in 
lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF) shortfall.
Over the past 12 years, the City’s real property assessed values (AV) have consistently grown, averaging 6.9% annually.  
The projected AV growth for 2023-24 is 5.5%, indicating a slowdown attributed to rising interest rates.  Though the 
housing market may further cool in the upcoming fiscal year, the property tax base in San Mateo is expected to remain 
stable, with a projected growth of 3% for fiscal year 2024-25.  
Another challenge to the city is the VLF shortfall.  As more school districts shift from non-basic-aid to basic-aid status, the 
County of San Mateo’s VLF shortfall continues to grow.  Currently, the only way to backfill the VLF shortfall is for the 
County of San Mateo (County), on behalf of itself and all the municipalities within the county, to file a claim with the State 
of California (State) in August each year to backfill the prior fiscal year’s VLF shortfall, resulting in a two-year delay in VLF 
payments.  For instance, the City’s share of the 2020-21 VLF shortfall ($5.7 million) was received in fiscal year 2022-23, and 
the 2021-22 VLF shortfall ($1.9 million) was received in fiscal year 2023-24.  However, payment delay is not the sole 
challenge; due to State budget deficits, the State may decline to utilize its General Fund to backfill the VLF shortfall.  It is 
anticipated that the City’s share of the countywide VLF shortfall will be $4.1 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for fiscal 
years 2022-23 and 2023-24.  Currently, there is a task force, including City Managers from cities in the County, to review 
options to permanently address this issue with the State.  Staff will continue to monitor the VLF shortfall status and adjust 
our budget strategy as we develop the new fiscal year budget. 
SALES TAX - $31.2M ADOPTED | $29.9M PROJECTED 
Sales tax revenue is currently the second largest single revenue source of the General Fund and is particularly susceptible 
to economic cycles.  At mid-year, the City’s projected sales tax for 2023-24 is $29.9 million, $1.3 million below the 
budgeted amount.
As illustrated in the chart below, sales tax revenue experienced revenue loss during the pandemic but rebounded in 2021-
22 following the removal of pandemic restrictions and benefited from high inflation.  As supply chain issues eased and 
inflation gradually receded to 3%, sales tax revenue stabilized.  
If we use the 2018-19 sales tax level (pre-pandemic) as the baseline and apply a 2% annual growth rate, the projected 
2023-24 sales tax would have been $28.8 million.  Therefore, while our mid-year sales tax projection of $29.9 million falls 
short of the budget projection, it exceeds the 2% baseline growth projection.   
508 of 517

--- page 509 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX - $8.0M ADOPTED | $7.0M PROJECTED 
The City collects a real property transfer tax (RPTT) upon the sale or transfer of any property within the City boundaries. As 
a charter city, San Mateo voters approved a 0.5% RPTT rate.  Furthermore, in the November 2022 election, San Mateo 
voters approved Measure CC that increased the RPTT rate to 1.5% for properties sold or transferred with a value of $10 
million or more.
Over the past two years, in response to high inflation, the Federal Reserve (Fed) has tightened monetary policy by 
increasing the Federal Funds Rate, which is the interest rate that banks charge each other to borrow or lend excess 
reserves overnight.  As a result of the precipitous rise in the Federal Funds Rate, the average 30-year mortgage rate has 
increased significantly as shown in the graph below.
The surge in mortgage rates has had a dampening effect on home sales.  The number of single-family homes sold 
decreased over 25% in calendar year 2022, and it experienced an additional 20% decline in calendar year 2023. However, 
due to persistent high demand in the housing market and the stabilization of the mortgage rates, the average median sales 
price remains strong.  After dropping for three consecutive quarters in 2022, the median home price has returned to the 
$1.8 ~ $1.9 million range in 2023.
509 of 517

--- page 510 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
        Source of information: San Mateo County Association of Realtors, Market Data
RPTT revenue is highly volatile since it is influenced by both property values and transaction volume.  When both home 
sales and prices drop, the impact on RPTT revenue is significant.  As shown in the chart below, at the close of fiscal year 
2022-23, RPTT revenue decreased to $7.4 million from its record high of $14.3 million in the prior year. And for fiscal year 
2023-24, RPTT revenue is anticipated to remain at the $7 million level. 
510 of 517

--- page 511 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX - $6.0M ADOPTED | $5.3M PROJECTED 
The City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) revenue is primarily driven by business travel and typically generated $7 million 
pre-pandemic.  As we all know, TOT has experienced significant revenue loss during the pandemic and has been slow to 
recover since.  At the close of fiscal year 2022-23, TOT has reached $6 million and was originally projected to recover to 
the $7 million baseline by 2024-25.  However, due to a hotel potentially ceasing operations in May 2024, revenue 
projections have been adjusted downward to $5.3 million for fiscal year 2023-24 to reflect the potential fiscal impact. TOT 
is the only General Fund tax revenue that has not recovered back to the pre-pandemic baseline. It is uncertain when that 
will occur, if at all.  Staff will continue to monitor changes in hotel operations, incorporate new information into the budget 
development for the next fiscal year, and adjust long-term assumptions as necessary.
OTHER GENERAL FUND REVENUES
Other General Fund revenues are on track to stay within budget, except for business license tax, golf fees, recreation 
service charges, and permits, fees, and fines revenues, which are expected to outperform the budget projection:
•
Business license tax is anticipated to reach $6.9 million in 2023-24.
•
Golf fees are expected to mirror the performance of the last two years, bringing in approximately $3.3 million. 
•
Recreation service charges are projected to further recover to $4.3 million. 
•
Permits, fees, and fines revenue will approximate $7.9 million, outperforming the original budget projection, 
resulting in a favorable budget variance of $3.3 million. The increase is primarily attributed to better-than-
expected parking revenues and public works permit revenues.
In summary, while certain revenue streams face challenges, the City’s General Fund revenues exhibit resilience and are 
positioned for continued growth.  Staff will continue to monitor areas of uncertainty, such as VLF shortfall and TOT, and 
make necessary budget adjustments in response to changing economic conditions and potential operational impacts.
General Fund Expenditures
The amended 2023-24 budget assumes $176.5 million in General Fund total expenditures. Based on December 2023 year-
to-date transactions, total expenditures are projected to be $169.5 million, a favorable budget variance of $7.1 million or 
4.0%. The majority of the favorable budget variance stems from vacancy savings, which is spread throughout all 
departments. There are many open merit and per diem staff positions that the City is targeting to fill within the next few 
months. Many executive level vacancies have contributed to the savings, as well as the per diem staff savings which largely 
offsets vacant staff positions and fluctuates based on seasonal requirements/expectations.
General Fund Balance
As shown in the tables below, the preliminary 2022-23 financial statements reveal a positive outcome for the General 
Fund, with an operating surplus of $6.4 million as total revenues exceeded the funds’ total expenditures. The fund 
concluded the fiscal year with a fund balance of $117.9 million.  
The adopted 2023-24 budget initially indicates a deficit of $12.6 million, which has increased to $17.2 million due to 
supplemental budget appropriations approved since July, totaling $4.6 million. Of this amount, $3 million is designated for 
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23
 ACTUALS
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
MID-YEAR
 PROJECTION
BUDGET 
VARIANCE
Business License Tax
6,686,853
8,797,963
6,302,889
6,902,889
600,000
Golf Fees
3,465,658
3,199,468
3,174,250
3,300,250
126,000
Recreation Service Charges
2,916,078
3,653,413
3,567,724
4,367,724
800,000
Permits, Fees, and Fines
5,723,723
8,018,782
4,632,500
7,932,500
3,300,000
511 of 517

--- page 512 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
storm improvement projects and wet weather preparedness. However, the mid-year update presents a more favorable 
outlook, with total revenue projected at $161.5 million and total expenditures at $169.5 million, resulting in a reduced 
deficit of $8.0 million. It is anticipated that the General Fund will conclude the current fiscal year 2023-24 with a fund 
balance of $109.9 million.
Of the $109.9 million General Fund balance, $39.4 million was set aside as an operating reserve, maintaining an amount 
equal to at least three months of the annual General Fund operating expenditure budget.  The housing reserve was 
approved by the City Council in previous years to support the ongoing development of new affordable housing. The 
Housing Element requires the allocation of 20% of the General Fund property tax revenues from former Redevelopment 
Area (RDA) sites for affordable housing.  Accordingly, starting in fiscal year 2023-24, an additional $1 million will be added 
to the housing reserve, bringing the balance to $5.9 million.  Additionally, $8.3 million of the General Fund balance has 
been committed to capital improvement projects (CIP) and is not available for discretionary use.  The remainder of the 
fund balance constitutes the General Fund’s rainy day reserve, expected to decrease to $56.3 million (from $68 million) by 
2023-24.
In the upcoming 2024-26 budget study session in April, staff will present options for Council consideration and seek 
Council direction regarding the reallocation of funds from the rainy day reserve. The primary objective is to optimize 
allocation of city resources to address pressing issues, such as infrastructure maintenance and repair, emergency 
preparedness and challenges from rising pension costs. It is important to balance the immediate needs with the city’s 
overall financial health, and make strategic financial plans with a long-term perspective.
Construction Services Fund 
The amended 2023-24 budget assumes $8.8 million in total revenues, $12.5 million in total expenditures, and $5.5 million 
in transfers out. Based on year-to-date trends, total revenues are projected to be $9.2 million, total expenditures are 
projected to be $11.7 million, and transfers out are expected to be $5.5 million, consistent with the budget. Projected 
Change to Fund Balance:
GENERAL FUND
2022-23
 ACTUALS*
2023-24
 AMENDED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
MID-YEAR
 PROJECTION
BUDGET 
VARIANCE
Beginning Fund Balance
111.5
$              
117.9
$              
117.9
$              
-
$              
Total Revenues
165.9
159.3
161.5
2.2
Total Expenditures
159.5
176.5
169.5
(7.1)
Resources Over / (Under) Requirements
6.4
(17.2)
(8.0)
9.3
Ending Fund Balance
117.9
$              
100.6
$              
109.9
$              
9.3
$              
*preliminary
General Fund Ending Balance:
GENERAL FUND
2022-23
 ACTUALS*
2023-24 
MID-YEAR
 PROJECTION
Up (Down) $
25% Operating Reserve
36.8
$                
39.4
$                
2.6
$              
Housing Reserve
4.8
5.9
1.0
Committed to CIP
8.3
8.3
-
Rainy Day Reserve
68.0
56.3
(11.6)
Ending Fund Balance
117.9
$              
109.9
$              
(8.0)
$             
*preliminary
512 of 517

--- page 513 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
revenues reflect a strong demand for development-related services, with very high permit volumes for single-family 
projects and accessory dwelling units, and continued construction activity related to previously entitled commercial/multi-
family projects. Projected expenditures reflect a continued need for consultant support for development services, in 
particular plan checking and building inspections. If the projections come to fruition, the Construction Services Fund would 
end the fiscal year with a drawdown of $8.0 million in fund balance.
Sewer Fund 
The amended 2023-24 budget assumes $86.2 million in total revenues, $56.9 million in total expenses, and $55.8 million in 
transfers out, primarily for capital improvement projects. Sewer Fund revenues are expected to be within budget 
assumptions.
Sewer Fund total revenues are projected to be $88.2 million, total expenses estimated at $52.5 million and transfer out 
will approximate the budget amount. Compared to the amended 2023-24 budget, if it comes to fruition, the Sewer Fund 
would end the fiscal year with a drawdown of $20.1 million. The primary drivers of the unfavorable budget variance are 
the increasing transfers out for capital improvement projects. Though it is unlikely that all appropriations for transfers out 
to support capital projects will be completed by fiscal year end, the remainder will be committed and rolled over to the 
subsequent fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact resulting from this report. The financial status of the General Fund for the current year, as 
well all other City funds, will continue to be monitored, with updated final estimates incorporated into the recommended 
2024-26 Budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This mid-year budget update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Renee Halcon, Budget Manager
rhalcon@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7118
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
513 of 517

--- page 514 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 24-8373
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 20, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wet Weather Preparations – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the City’s wet weather preparations and storm response activities.
BACKGROUND:
City staff have been engaging in a variety of actions to prepare for the current and future rainy seasons, as detailed in 
presentations to Council on August 21, September 6, and November 6, 2023. The following sections update Council on 
preparatory actions and storm response activities so far this winter. Note that the categorization and lettering/numbering 
of the following items correlates to how they were originally presented at the August 21, 2023, meeting.
Immediate-Term Actions (No Additional Resources Required)
A.
Additional Marina Lagoon Pump Station pump vibration analysis at summer lagoon levels
a.
This action is complete.
B.
Develop Marina Lagoon Alternatives Analysis for Pumping Below 95 feet
a.
City staff have executed an amendment to Schaaf & Wheeler’s existing agreement to evaluate alternatives 
including: 1) contracting for a detailed hydraulic intake analysis to determine if existing pumps can safely 
lower the water level beyond standard winter operating levels; 2) installing a temporary rental pump 
system; 3) using one existing pump/gearbox/engine as a “sacrificial” pump with increased monitoring and 
anticipated replacement; and 4) constructing a new low-flow pump station adjacent to the existing pump 
station with pumps properly sized for lowering the lagoon levels below 95 feet. 
b.
Staff received the draft alternatives analysis on January 26, 2024 and is under internal review.  Staff will 
then engage the ad-hoc Lagoon committee to discuss findings.    
C.
Install debris rack at 4000 Pacific Boulevard Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
D. Provide data on City’s website for Marina Lagoon levels and pumps running
a.
This action is nearly complete. The public-facing dashboard was rolled out as planned on December 1, 
2023, and can be accessed at: www.cityofsanmateo.org/LagoonDashboard 
E.
Implement additional safety systems for trash rack cleaning at Marina Lagoon Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
F.
Develop a Request for Proposals (RFP) to update the 2004 Storm Drain Master Plan and develop a prioritized 
implementation strategy
a.
This action is complete, and combined with Short-Term Item 7, below, to perform a LiDAR aerial survey, as 
the survey data will feed directly into updated hydrologic and hydraulic modeling for the Master Plan. The 
RFP is currently advertised, with proposals due February 14, 2024.
514 of 517

--- page 515 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
G. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash capture devices
a.
This action is complete.    
H. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash racks
a.
This action is complete and ongoing – trash racks were all cleaned in advance of storms and 
monitored/cleaned before and after significant storm events. 
I.
Inspect and clean all storm pump station wet wells
a.
This action is complete and ongoing – wet wells were cleaned in advance of the rainy season and after all 
significant storm events.  
J.
Prepare traffic control/closures and stage materials for roads with known flooding concerns
a.
This action is complete, staff have staged materials for road closures at key locations, including water walls 
and signs, and have other materials ready to deploy at the City’s Corporation Yard and storage yard on Ivy 
Road. Staff have a mobile trailer pre-loaded with closure materials that can be readily deployed from the 
Corporation Yard, as needed.
K.
Coordinate with Office of Emergency Services (OES) on wet weather planning and training
a.
This action is ongoing. OES has developed a draft Wet Weather Emergency Action Plan that is under 
review by City departments, updated the City’s Emergency Operations Center staffing roster to reflect 
staff turnover, and scheduled training for all City staff on emergency operations.  
L.
Work with community on Marina Lagoon Pump Station Standard Operating Procedures
a.
This action is nearing completion. Public Works staff and community volunteers with expertise in 
developing Standard Operating Procedures have developed complete SOPs for the Marina Lagoon Pump 
Station that are under review by department management.    
M. Establish a Marina Lagoon Resident Flood Watch communication program
a.
This action is in progress. Staff is working with key Marina Lagoon representatives on communication and 
notification protocols/criteria to ensure residents can properly keep City staff informed of any lagoon 
issues during the rainy season.
N. Coordinate improved public outreach and messaging on emergency preparations
a.
This action is ongoing. A robust public information effort about stormwater issues and public safety 
preparedness was conducted as part of the Community Flood and Storm Protection Initiative leading up to 
Council’s action on the ballot. The City will continue to share safety messaging and emergency 
preparedness actions via City digital and print communication platforms. Staff are working on planning 
additional print mailings and digital communications to residents about ways they can prepare and will 
provide updates on the City’s flood preparation web page as a hub of resources for the community. Staff 
will work to share this information with community partners for help disseminating these important public 
safety messages. Staff are also working with OES on notification procedures in the event of an emergency 
and will encourage residents to sign up for SMC Alerts and Nixle.
Immediate-Term Actions
1.
Perform maintenance on all five diesel engines, upgrade wiring, programming, and alarms, and purchase a spare 
pump lubricator system at Marina Lagoon Pump Station 
a.
Engine maintenance is ongoing. Three engines have been serviced to date.  Service on the third engine 
revealed significant wear on the valves/cylinder blocks, requiring refurbishment at an outside shop that 
kept the engine out of service for over a month.  The remaining two engines were put on hold until after 
the rainy season; however, after storms in late January, one of the two engines leaked a significant 
amount of oil.  Service representatives believe a fuel injector potentially failed allowing coolant into the 
engine block and oil system.  Repairs will be extensive with a full engine dismantle required, with repair 
service starting on February 14.  The pump station will remain with only four engines in service until it can 
be repaired.   
b.
Upgrades to the wiring, programming, and alarms are nearly complete, with the wiring and programming 
work by Telstar, Thunderbird, and Enterprise Automation already complete. The only remaining work is 
raising the existing transducer that measures lagoon levels to ensure it does not get flooded in a significant 
event and installing backup high-level floats outside the pump station and inside the pump station wet 
well. These will help alarm staff if wet well levels get too low (which could cause pump/engine damage) 
515 of 517

--- page 516 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and alert staff to high lagoon levels if the transducer fails.   
c.
A spare pump lubricator system has been delivered and is being wired to allow staff to quickly swap with 
any lubricator that might fail.   
d.
Upgrades to the cathodic protection system is nearly complete, with the system online and functioning 
and an automated monitoring system soon to be installed.  
2.
Deploy up to five (5) sandbag stations throughout the City for upcoming rainy season, with focus on areas with 
history of flooding, and coordinate with community volunteers for filling bags, monitoring stations 
a.
Staff deployed four sandbag stations as of October 14, one at the Anchor Road parking lot near the Bay 
Trail, one in the parking lot of Parkside Aquatic Park, one in the parking lot at the City’s Corporation Yard, 
and one in the parking lot of Beresford Park. Staff, with the support of OES, is in discussion with the Army 
National Guard regarding potential for deploying a fifth station at the National Guard facility on N. 
Humboldt Street.
3.
Inspect and clean all catch basins before rainy season and recurring cleaning at hot spots throughout rainy season
a.
Public Works staff and an outside contractor have completed cleaning all catch basins within the City, 
which totals approximately 6,000 locations. Staff will continue to monitor and clean catch basins, as 
needed, throughout the remainder of the rainy season. Staff encourages the public to sign up for the City’s 
Adopt-a-Drain program to volunteer to keep catch basins clear of debris: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3715/Adopt-A-Drain.  
Short-Term Actions
4.
Localized lagoon maintenance dredging under existing permit 
a.
Staff issued a Request for Proposals for professional services to prepare a design package for bidding to 
dredge the three creek mouths at the Lagoon. Two proposals were received on January 31, 2024, and staff 
is reviewing and selecting a design consultant.  
5.
Localized, small-scale drainage improvements
a.
This action is still pending, but staff anticipates developing a package of priority locations to put out to bid 
in the coming months.  
6.
Camera monitoring of priority creeks/trash racks
a.
This action is still pending.
7.
LiDAR aerial survey (Ground surface, creeks, and lagoon bathymetric)
a.
This action, as described above, is part of the RFP to update the City’s Storm Drain Master Plan described 
above, for which proposals are due on February 14, 2024.     
Mid-Term Actions
8.
Storm Drain Master Plan update
a.
This action is still pending, but proposals for consultant support, as described above, are due February 14, 
2024.  With approval of the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee, staff will be programming the 
additional funds needed to complete the Master Plan update, a key step in developing a prioritized capital 
improvement program to address storm drainage system deficiencies.   
9.
Marina Lagoon dredging: Design, environmental, and permitting
a.
This action is still pending and connected to getting updated LiDAR aerial survey data to have updated 
bathymetry information for the Marina Lagoon.
Additional Activities
•
Staff submitted Water Resources Development Act proposals to Congressmember Mullin for key storm drain/flood 
control infrastructure improvements and Marina Lagoon dredging. Staff continues working with the City’s
legislative advocate to pursue potential earmark and/or grant funding for key projects. 
•
After receiving approval for some creek/channel cleaning efforts by key resource agencies, staff dredged sediment 
from the 19th Avenue Channel adjacent to the Corporation Yard, removed debris from the trash rack at 
Laurelwood Dam, and 42 other trash rack locations. Staff met with a consultant regarding pursuit of a multi-year 
516 of 517

--- page 517 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
jurisdictional permit to perform creek/channel maintenance on an ongoing basis for sections that are 
owned/maintained by the City.  
•
Staff received draft materials from OneShoreline for a proposed Flood Early Warning System for San Mateo Creek 
and will continue collaborating with their staff on development of a dashboard and associated criteria for decision-
making.  
•
Property owners approved the Community Flood and Storm Protection Initiative and Council authorized levying of 
the fees at the January 16, 2024, meeting, which will result in $4 million annually for work on storm drainage 
issues. Staff is working with the Finance Department to set up the new enterprise fund for revenue and 
expenditures and establishing operating and capital budget allocations for the 2024-26 budget process.  
•
City staff from all departments, including OES/San Mateo Consolidated Fire, continues meeting monthly to discuss 
wet weather preparations/storm response as well as advancing overall emergency management preparations and 
training. OES established an Emergency Management Committee that will help move efforts forward, including 
planning for more staff training and exercises. Public Works, Parks, and OES staff continue meeting twice weekly to 
monitor weather forecasts and plan staff responses, accordingly.  
On January 29, 2024, staff met with an ad-hoc committee of Lagoon residents to discuss next steps on the Community 
Flood and Storm Protection Initiative fee revenue, upgrades at the Marina Lagoon Pump Station, citywide wet weather 
preparations, and proposed revisions to the on/off settings for pumps at the Marina Lagoon Pump Station.  As discussed, a 
follow-up meeting with this group is planned to further discuss alternatives for pumping below 95’ for a dock maintenance 
period and potential additional flood storage capacity.BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
517 of 517