Brenham police confirm internal investigation into officer following alleged Flock camera misuse Skip to content News Weather Sports The Three Watch Live Big 6 Project Advertise KBTX Marketplace Home News Local State National Politics TDCJ Investigation Watch Live Weather Interactive Radar Map Room First Alert Podcast Severe Weather Hurricane Live Eye Allergy Report Closings Sports High School Texas A&M Aggie Gameday Extra Sam Houston The Three Contests Applause Trivia Community Calendar About Us Meet the Team Contact Us Legal Careers Video Request Advertise With Us Programming Schedule Submit Photos and Videos Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation NextGen TV Features Be Remarkable Applause Brazos Valley Groundwater Conservation Daily Pledge Feel Good Friday Food for Families Free Music Friday From The Ground Up KBTX Marketplace In Depth Spirit of Service Awards Legally Speaking Pet of the Week Pump Patrol Reason To Smile Restaurant Report Card Senior Salute Dream Home Giveaway Treat Of The Day Weekend Gardener Who's Hiring? Gray AI Policy Brenham police confirm internal investigation into officer following alleged Flock camera misuse Brenham Police Department confirms internal investigation into officer, following claims of alleged Flock camera misuse (KBTX) By Lillian Kosh Published: Oct. 6, 2026 at 11:30 PM UTC | Updated: 22 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google BRENHAM, Texas (KBTX) - The City of Brenham confirms it’s conducting an internal affairs investigation into one of its police officers. The confirmation comes after a social media post claimed an officer was allegedly terminated following allegations they misused the department’s automated license plate reader (ALPR) system. A social media post from a police watchdog group on Monday alleges an officer was investigated for misusing the department’s Flock Safety automated license plate reader (ALPR) system, and that the investigation resulted in disciplinary action, including termination. KBTX reached out to the Brenham Police Department, which said it was not authorized to speak on the matter, but said the city’s public information officer would release a statement. Brenham’s communications and public relations manager, Melinda Gordon, sent KBTX the following statement, confirming an internal affairs investigation is underway but declining to confirm the officer’s identity, employment status, or the nature of the allegations: This week, the Brenham Police Department (BPD) received an inquiry concerning a BPD officer, claiming that the officer had been terminated for improper conduct related to his job. The BPD can confirm that there is an internal affairs investigation being conducted involving a BPD officer. All internal investigations are conducted through a fair, impartial, and comprehensive review process in accordance with departmental policy. The current investigation is ongoing, and no determination has been made concerning the officer’s status. The BPD will provide an update after the conclusion of the investigation. City of Brenham At this time, there has been no confirmation of Flock misuse at the Brenham Police Department. The department said it is not conducting interviews on the matter. KBTX reached out to Brenham councilmember Steve Soman, who has publicly questioned Flock Safety in the past. Soman told KBTX that while the city has access to other ALPR systems and technologies, the city doesn’t have a contract with Flock. Soman said the Flock cameras in town are owned by Washington County, TxDOT and private businesses. The City of Brenham and Brenham Police Department have confirmed that an internal affairs investigation involving an officer is underway. Internal investigations are conducted through a fair, impartial, and comprehensive review under departmental policy. The investigation is ongoing, and no determination has been made concerning the officer’s status. I will not comment on facts or allegations that are still under review. Policy exists so conduct is measured against clear rules. If a violation is found, the department’s disciplinary process applies. An update should come from the department and the city after the investigation concludes. Steve Soman, Brenham City Council An internal affairs investigation and any resulting department discipline are separate from a criminal case, and as of now, there is no indication charges have been filed or that prosecutors have made any charging decision. KBTX is working to obtain more information and will update this story as more information is confirmed. Copyright 2026 KBTX. All rights reserved. Most Read Fatal crash involving two 18-wheelers closes Highway 6 south of Hearne Influencer claims he was racially profiled by College Station police, intends to sue Dennis Franchione, former Texas A&M football coach, dies at 75 Chaotic night leads to 30 arrests by College Station police at or near Northgate Major traffic delays reported on Highway 6 northbound in College Station Chart-topping R&B singer Freddie Jackson dies at 70 Dogtown Ranch to close after owner arrested, accused of animal cruelty Latest News Tropical Storm Isaias strengthening in the Gulf Four juveniles arrested after Bryan vehicle burglary investigation Staying sunny and dry this week while we monitor Tropical Storm Isaias - October 7 KBTX Sports Now - Film Study with Darrell Dickey, review of Arkansas Texas agency sues to stop release of data center records that it says could aid terrorists KBTX Sports Now - From the press box: Texas A&M v. Missouri Cool mornings and warm afternoons stick around as Tropical Storm Isaias churns in the Gulf. Pink Alliance hosts annual Surviving & Thriving luncheon Home News Weather Sports Community Calendar User Content About Us KBTX 4141 E. 29th Street Bryan, TX 77802 (979) 846-7777 EEO Statement Public Inspection File FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising Digital Marketing publicfile@kbtx.com - (979) 846-7777 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search