Flock cameras help Bryan police bust alleged Walmart theft ring Skip to content News Weather Sports The Three Watch Live Big 6 Project Advertise KBTX Marketplace Home News Local State National Politics TDCJ Investigation Watch Live Weather Interactive Radar Map Room First Alert Podcast Severe Weather Hurricane Live Eye Allergy Report Closings Sports High School Texas A&M Aggie Gameday Extra Sam Houston The Three Contests Applause Trivia Community Calendar About Us Meet the Team Contact Us Legal Careers Video Request Advertise With Us Programming Schedule Submit Photos and Videos Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation NextGen TV Features Be Remarkable Applause Brazos Valley Groundwater Conservation Daily Pledge Feel Good Friday Food for Families Free Music Friday From The Ground Up KBTX Marketplace In Depth Spirit of Service Awards Legally Speaking Pet of the Week Pump Patrol Reason To Smile Restaurant Report Card Senior Salute Dream Home Giveaway Treat Of The Day Weekend Gardener Who's Hiring? Gray AI Policy Bryan police say Flock cameras helped stop Walmart theft ring Bryan Police Department busts an alleged string of theft using Flock cameras By Jamisyn Baker Published: Sep. 18, 2026 at 12:26 AM UTC | Updated: 11 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google BRYAN, Texas (KBTX) - Two Houston residents are accused of trying to steal hundreds of dollars in merchandise from a Bryan Walmart, and police say license plate readers led them straight to the suspects before they ever had a chance to leave the store. Jay Ashley Glover, 43, and Cristina Marie Garcia, 28, were both taken into custody by Bryan police on Wednesday, Sept. 16, after officers say they used Flock camera technology to track their car as it entered the city. The arrest report says the suspects and the vehicle were spotted at Navasota’s Walmart, and store security alerted local law enforcement that they might target other stores in the area. Security also said the two were suspected in a $17,000 theft investigation at a Walmart store in Port Lavaca. Bryan PD says they used Flock camera data to confirm the car was heading toward the Walmart store on Harvey Mitchell Parkway, where officers were waiting in the parking lot. Police say Glover, who was disguised as a woman, went inside the store with Garcia and attempted to steal a printer, two graphing calculators, women’s shoes and a wig, worth an estimated $578.59. Investigators say Glover abandoned the items in a clothing rack after Garcia texted him a warning that officers were in the parking lot. His reply, according to police: “Abort.” Officers stopped the pair’s vehicle as it left the parking lot. According to arrest documents, Garcia later admitted the group planned to steal electronics and sell them to a man identified only as “Mike” in San Antonio, who intended to resell the items online. Brazos County jail records show both suspects were charged with engaging in organized criminal activity, with bond set at $50,000. Records show they also face a separate warrant out of Austin County for organized retail theft. Both Glover and Garcia received criminal trespass warnings at Walmart locations in Bryan. This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available. Copyright 2026 KBTX. All rights reserved. Most Read Game time for Texas A&M at LSU announced Motorcyclist seriously injured in Wellborn Road crash, traffic diverted Bill introduced to reduce workweek to 32 hours Investigation ongoing after shooting at Bryan apartment complex Man hospitalized, suspect in custody after shooting in Leon County gas station parking lot 3 killed, including 12-year-old child, in Robertson County 18-wheeler crash Several Texas Republicans condemn Bo French’s posts calling Asian students at UT a “problem” Bob Mackie, designer to the stars who dressed Cher and Madonna and defined ’70s glamour, dies at 87 Latest News Hockey players highlight rising equipment costs following Trump tariff announcement Driver identified in Navasota crash that destroyed family’s home; community continues to rally around them Navasota home crash Texas A&M DE Saka upgraded to “probable” vs. Kentucky Pete Hegseth to visit Texas tech hubs, address Texas A&M cadets Affidavit details gruesome, unprovoked stabbing of former Texas A&M researcher at Round Rock park Texas prepares application to host proposed Space Academy Hearne ISD addresses families following elementary principal’s termination Home News Weather Sports Community Calendar User Content About Us KBTX 4141 E. 29th Street Bryan, TX 77802 (979) 846-7777 EEO Statement Public Inspection File FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising Digital Marketing publicfile@kbtx.com - (979) 846-7777 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search