Bastrop City Council votes to terminate Flock contract, prevent similar cameras in the future Skip to content News Weather Sports The Three Watch Live Big 6 Project Advertise KBTX Marketplace Home News Local State National Politics TDCJ Investigation Watch Live Weather Interactive Radar Map Room First Alert Podcast Severe Weather Hurricane Live Eye Allergy Report Closings Sports High School Texas A&M Aggie Gameday Extra Sam Houston The Three Contests Applause Trivia Chillin’ & Grillin’ Giveaway Community Calendar About Us Meet the Team Contact Us Legal Careers Video Request Advertise With Us Programming Schedule Submit Photos and Videos Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation NextGen TV Features Be Remarkable Applause Brazos Valley Groundwater Conservation Daily Pledge Feel Good Friday Food for Families Free Music Friday From The Ground Up KBTX Marketplace In Depth Spirit of Service Awards Legally Speaking Pet of the Week Pump Patrol Reason To Smile Restaurant Report Card Senior Salute Dream Home Giveaway Treat Of The Day Weekend Gardener Who's Hiring? Gray AI Policy Heat Advisory is in effect Bastrop City Council votes to terminate Flock contract, prevent similar cameras in the future Bastrop City Council votes to terminate Flock contract, prevent similar cameras in the future By Alex Weister Published: Sep. 8, 2026 at 8:48 PM PDT Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google BASTROP, Texas (KBTX) - Bastrop City Council has voted to immediately terminate its contract with Flock, as well as prevent any future license plate reading technology from coming to the city. “The surprise was that council member Cynthia Meyer went ahead and put forward a resolution to not only stop the Flock contract, but to stop all future automatic license plate reader contracts as well. So I think it’s a big win for privacy here in Bastrop,” said John Bush, a Bastrop resident. Last week, Bastrop covered the cameras that were in the city, and after more citizen push, they cemented their removal. “I’d like to see things go a step further with the city charter amendment because that would be permanent and go beyond just this council. But at the end of the day, we’re really pleased with how this council has shown up. And I think a lot of people feel as though their voices have been heard,” said Bush. Flock has been a heated topic of discussion as residents, along with city and state officials across the nation, are debating if Flock’s license plate reading technology is being used properly. “And we’ve had evidence that it has helped us. But then there’s also, you know, where there’s been a misuse of technology and the concerns of the privacy, the encroachment, the data collection and access to our personal information and how much control we really have over that,” said Ishmael Harris, the Mayor of Bastrop. Bastrop is the 5th city or county in the past month to terminate their contracts, according to DeFlock. This also comes as Gov. Greg Abbott announced a pause in funding the cameras and Sen. Lois Kolkhorst called for an outright ban of Flock cameras. “Local municipalities actually have more power to guide how this technology is deployed in city limits than the federal government right now,” said Stacy Collins, another Bastrop resident. Bush says that he hopes Bastrop is just the beginning of similar votes. “So yeah, this is a big precedent, and we can only hope that other cities follow suit,” said Bush. College Station is set for a vote on their contract on September 24th. Bryan has yet to set a date for a vote or discussion. Copyright 2026 KBTX. All rights reserved. Most Read High school sweethearts and their 2 young sons killed in head-on crash: ‘Like a nightmare’ Beloved country singer Brian Duckworth dies at 56 Teens praised for heroic actions after couple’s truck plunges into Brazos County pond ‘Devastating’: Grimes County community volunteer scammed out of $24,000 FBI: Cat in the Hat videos threatening schools are no joke, neither are the consequences Bryan and College Station welcome new and expanding businesses Parents arrested after child left in hot car for more than 2 hours Huntsville Police Department confirms missing teen has been found Latest News Summer heat and pop-ups stay put for the weekend - September 11 How a Texas A&M professor’s 9/11 mission sparked a revolution in disaster robotics Fire Station 7 officially opens in College Station New AI traffic cameras help College Station track congestion and safety Scattered storms possible through the evening Daily Pledge – Allen Academy – Ms. Fazzino Daily Pledge – Anson Jones – Ms. Krolczyk Daily Pledge – Anson Jones – Mrs. Parilli Home News Weather Sports Community Calendar User Content About Us KBTX 4141 E. 29th Street Bryan, TX 77802 (979) 846-7777 EEO Statement Public Inspection File FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising Digital Marketing publicfile@kbtx.com - (979) 846-7777 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search