source: packet.pdf
sha256: 93ca71eb9f30c634b30caa15bceef062a14cf839d0d02601822f69dd6bc47918
pages: 386
ocr_pages: 50
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
October 3, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
 Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, October 3, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 844 9409 9456      Passcode: 803925
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Council Member Amourence Lee will teleconference into this meeting from:
59617 Keiki, Haleiwa HI 96712
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Recognition – Bart Charlow
2.
National Hispanic Heritage Month
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of September 19, 2022.
4.
Senate Bill (SB 9) – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 27.21 "Two-Unit Development
Overlay District" to implement the provisions of SB 9, amend Chapter 27.66 "Historic Preservation" to update the
definition of “Individually Eligible Buildings”.
1 of 386

--- page 2 ---
5.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Mosquito Abatement – Agreement
Approve a three-year agreement with the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District for mosquito
monitoring and abatement at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not-to-exceed $40,000, and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue any
change orders within the agreement amount.
6.
City of San Mateo Conflict of Interest Code – 2022 Biennial Update
Adopt a Resolution to update the City of San Mateo’s conflict of interest code to account for the addition,
deletion, and modification of positions listed as “designated employees."
7.
COVID-19 Supplemental Paid Sick Leave Benefit Extension
Adopt a Resolution to continue California Senate Bill 114 COVID-19 Supplemental Paid Sick Leave (SPSL) benefits
past the bill’s expiration date of September 30, 2022 through December 31, 2022.
8.
Solid Waste – 2023 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification
Authorize staff to mail a notice to all property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste,
recycling, and compost collection rates for 2023.
9.
111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue Public Improvements – Acceptance
Adopt a Resolution to accept public improvements in accordance with the Subdivision Improvement Agreement
between the City of San Mateo and Chabad NP for 111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue.
10.
Casanova Park Restroom Remodel – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Newton
Construction & Management, Inc. to remodel the public restrooms at Casanova Park in the amount of
$298,253.22; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $45,000; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders or amendments within the
contingency amount.
11.
Off-Site Plan Review and Certified Access Specialist Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the professional consultant services agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for off-
site plan review and certified access specialist (CASp) services in the amount of $100,000 for a new agreement
total of $199,000, and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the amendment in
substantially the form presented.
12.
Office of Traffic Safety – Grant Spending Plan
Adopt a Resolution to approve a grant spending plan and appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant totaling $130,000, and authorize the Police Chief to accept and
execute the agreement and expend the funds.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
2 of 386

--- page 3 ---
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
13.
Draft Goals, Policies and Actions for the Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, Noise, and Conservation, Open
Space and Recreation Elements – General Plan Update
Provide direction on the Goals, Policies and Actions for the Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, Noise, and
Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Elements that should be included in the City’s Draft General Plan
Update.
NEW BUSINESS
14.
Public Employee Pension Reform Act 180 Day Waiting Period Waiver Request – Community Development
Department
Adopt a Resolution finding the nature of employment for retired annuitant Kelli Casale is necessary to fill a
critically needed position before 180 days have passed pursuant to California Government Code section 7522.56
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of
action from Closed Session will be provided if required.
 
15.
City Attorney Compensation
Agency designated representative: Mayor Rick Bonilla / Unrepresented employee: City Attorney
RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
16.
City Attorney Compensation
Adopt a Resolution to authorize action regarding City Attorney compensation.
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
3 of 386

--- page 4 ---
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
Process: The Mayor will call for public comment, the Clerk will then ask for all speaker slips (in person) to be turned in to the clerk and all hands
raised (attending remotely via Zoom or phone) for those wishing to speak. The Clerk will then announce how many speakers and who the last
speaker will be for both in person and virtual. The Mayor will announce the amount of time per speaker based on the number of speakers. In
person speakers will be taken first, followed by remote speakers. 
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 386

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 22-6716
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of September 19, 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2022-09-19 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2022-09-19 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
5 of 386

--- page 6 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
September 19, 2022
Council Chambers and Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
CALL TO ORDER - 
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Sustainability-Related Amendments to the 2022 Building Code
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, provided a presentation on potential amendments to the 2022 Building Code 
for new construction and existing buildings related to building electrification and electric vehicle charging 
infrastructure. Council asked questions of staff.  Blake Herrschaft, Peninsula Clean Energy, provided additional 
information and answered questions.
Public Comment (32 speakers)
John McKenna stated decarbonizing existing buildings is one way that San Mateo can greatly reduce its 
greenhouse gas emissions and requested the full model reach code for existing buildings be adopted.  Pete 
Paffrath supported moving forward with this electrification project. Harry Moody stated these are small steps but 
they are necessary steps. Mike Caggiano stated there is no spare space for community charges in most older 
buildings and asked for confirmation that PG&E will supply the meter free of charge. Mayor Bonilla asked Blake 
Herrschaft to confirm, which was confirmed. Michelle Hudson presented a petition from the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, signed by over 400 San Mateo residents asking the City to adopt an ordinance requiring 
replacements of gas equipment to electric or zero emissions in homes and businesses beginning January 1st, 2025. 
Robert Whitehair asked Council to direct staff to prepare this ordinance. 
Susan Blockstein urged the City Council to take immediate steps to stop the climate crisis. Megan Strain asked 
Council to direct staff to prepare full model reach codes. Libby Traubman stated a model for electrification could 
be the Hillsdale Mall and this should be a model for the future. Ricki McGlashan stated eliminating methane gas is 
a high priority. Susan Rowinski spoke of concerns with moving to electrification due to expense for existing homes 
and supported options 3 and 5 presented by staff. Belinda Chlowber urged Council to take this issue seriously, 
stating she found gas leaks in her home. Anjuli Misha stated many of the 400 petitioners are San Mateo students. 
Charlotte Stewart asked Council to pass reach codes to help save the planet before climate change becomes 
irreversible. Nancy Schnieder stated support for staff recommendations and asked Council to go beyond what staff 
is proposing for existing buildings. Michelle Mandel provided statistics that methane used to heat, and cook is 
hazardous to our health. Mike Abkin spoke in support of implementation of reach codes. Louise Karr stated 
Council have an opportunity to support our climate. Pam Rittlemeyer urged Council to help residents take 
immediate personal steps to mitigate climate change. Alex Wagonfeld asked Council to pass progressive climate 
policies. 
6 of 386

--- page 7 ---
Diane Bailey stated San Mateo residents are entitled to tax credit rebate incentives totaling $30,000 per 
household. Elaine Salinger spoke in support of the full implementation of reach codes. Zach Scott urged Council to 
adopt reach codes for existing buildings. Jared Johnson asked Council to pass full Bay Area reach codes for new 
and existing buildings. Bruce Naegel stated climate change impact on children. Claire Chintani urged Council to 
direct staff to prepare a full model reach code for existing buildings. Rebecca Young spoke in support of adoption 
of a full model reach code for existing buildings. Gary Trott spoke in support of action in greenhouse gas reduction. 
Mary Rose spoke in support for Council to adopt strongest building decarbonization reach codes possible. Dashiell 
Leeds asked Council to direct staff to draft an ordinance for existing buildings based on the Bay Area reach codes 
model for existing buildings. Raayan Mohtashemi spoke of the importance for hardship exemptions to avoid 
hurting certain groups. Jordan Grimes asked Council to embrace smart, effective, data-driven public policy in 
pursuit of a livable future for all. Roisin McElarney thanked Council for their action on this subject. 
Council deliberation ensued with consensus in support of reach codes to require all-electric new construction and 
enhanced EV charging infrastructure for new construction, specifically Option B for new multifamily buildings. 
Council also supported Reach Code Options 1-3, 4B, and 5 for existing building remodels and moving forward with 
the proposed Decarbonization Strategy technical analysis as presented by staff.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
7 of 386

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
September 19, 2022
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER – the meeting convened at 7:55 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals, and Rodriguez
CEREMONIAL
1.
Proclamation – 30th Anniversary “Self Help for the Elderly” – Deborah Soon and Self-Help for the Elderly members 
received the proclamation
2.
Recognition – “Reach and Teach” for being named a California Legislature Small Business of the Year - Craig 
Wiesner and Derrick Kikuchi, Reach and Teach Owners, received the recognition
3.
Proclamation – National Preparedness Month – Jim Yoke, Emergency Services Manager, San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department, received the proclamation
4.
Presentation – FxSMC (Fixing San Mateo County) - Jim Lawrence, Chair of the Board, and Nancy Goodban, 
Executive Director, presented remotely
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 5 through 28, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals, and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
5.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of September 6, 2022.
6.
31-57 South B Street Zoning Reclassification – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification for the property at 31-57 South B Street from 
“Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use” to “Central Business District” and 
determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further environmental review under 
the California Environmental Quality Act. 
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2022-09
8 of 386

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 2
7.
2021-22 Consolidated Annual Performance Evaluation Report - Adoption
Adopt the Consolidated Annual Performance Evaluation Report for submission to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development.
8.
385 2nd Avenue and 1 Transit Center Way – Lease Amendments
Approve an amendment to the lease for 385 2nd Avenue to extend the term for an additional year with 
a monthly base rent of $1,305, provide a one-year renewal option, and replace Dagoberto Vasquez with 
Elmer Vasquez as the lessee; and approve Amendment No. 4 to the lease for 1 Transit Center Way with 
Rise Wood-Fire, LLC to revise the commencement date for additional rent based on a percentage of 
gross sales; and authorize the City Manager to execute both lease amendments in substantially the form 
presented.
9.
Grand Jury Report: “Waiter! There’s a Car in My Soup!” – Response Letter
Approve the letter responding to the July 25, 2022 report by the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 
entitled, “Waiter! There’s a Car in My Soup!” and authorize the Mayor to send the response letter on 
behalf of the City Council.
10.
September Nights on B - Event Adjustments
Approve staff's recommendation to host all three nights of the September Nights on B festival on the 
block of the pedestrian mall between 1st and 2nd Avenue.
11.
Merit Employees Salary Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo merit employee current pay rates 
and ranges (salary schedule).
Enactment:  Resolution No. 93 (2022)
12.
Community Development Department and Department of Parks and Recreation – Job Specification 
Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the job specification for the classification of Managing 
Arborist for both departments.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 94(2022)
13.
Citywide Ash Tree Pruning 2022 – Agreement
Approve an agreement with West Coast Arborists for citywide ash tree pruning in the amount of 
$227,850 and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented.
14.
Edward Byrne 2022 Justice Assistance Grant Program – Application
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of 
Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program 
for the 2022 local solicitation in the amount of $21,088; and if awarded, appropriate funds to the Police 
Grants Budget Program and authorize the Chief of Police to execute all required documents.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 95 (2022)
15.
Axon Virtual Reality Training Simulator – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the Master Services and Purchasing Agreement with Axon, Inc., to 
provide for a virtual-reality training simulator system for a ten-year term in the amount of $298,126.10, 
9 of 386

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 3
for a new cumulative agreement total of $1,565,427.68; adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an 
alternative purchasing method; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the amendment in 
substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 96 (2022)
16.
Radio Dispatch Console System – Agreement and Amendment
Approve an agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates in the amount of $465,199 for 
the purchase of a new radio dispatch console system; approve amendment No. 1 to the agreement for 
telecommunications maintenance management services in the amount of $109,157 for a new 
agreement total in an amount not to exceed $364,362; adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an 
alternative purchasing method and authorize an appropriation of $22,000 from the Equipment 
Replacement Fund to the Radio Dispatch Console Capital Improvement Project budget; and authorize 
the Chief of Police to execute the agreement and amendment in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 97 (2022)
17.
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $585,503 to the San Mateo Complete Streets Plan project with 
$490,882 funded through a California Department of Transportation Sustainable Transportation 
Planning grant and $94,621 from the City’s Measure A funds; approve an agreement with Fehr & Peers 
for the San Mateo Complete Streets Plan project in the amount of $489,975; establish a contingency of 
$60,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 98 (2022)
18.
King Recreation Center Family Changing Room Construction – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award a construction contract 
to Newton Construction & Management, Inc. for the conversion of part of an existing storage area in the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Recreation Center into a family changing room in the amount of $270,954.02; 
establish a contingency reserve of $40,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 99 (2022)
19.
On-Call Transportation Services for Various Projects – Agreements
Adopt a Resolution to use an alternative purchasing procedure to approve the execution of four on-call 
professional services agreements with AECOM Technical Services, Inc., Fehr & Peers, Kittelson and 
Associates, Inc., and Steer Davies and Gleave, Inc., for terms each through June 30, 2024, each for a total 
amount not to exceed $250,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in 
substantially the form presented and to amend the agreements within the budget amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 100 (2022)
20.
Derby Avenue and Curiosity Way Pedestrian and Bicycle Access Easement – Acceptance
Adopt a Resolution to accept a Grant of Pedestrian and Bicycle Access Easement on Derby Avenue and 
Curiosity Way in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 101 (2022)
10 of 386

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 4
21.
Mariners Island Condos Public Improvements – Acceptance
Adopt a Resolution to accept public improvements including new street trees, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, 
and storm drain catch basins in accordance with the Subdivision Improvement Agreement for Mariners 
Island Condos between the City of San Mateo and TNHC Tidelands LLC.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 102 (2022)
22.
Police Department Patrol Vehicles Purchase – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with 
National Auto Fleet Group for the purchase of nine (9) new 2023 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility 
vehicles in the amount of $579,552.03; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase 
contract in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 103 (2022)
23.
Citywide Elevators and Lifts Maintenance Service – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a three-year 
agreement with TK Elevator Corporation for maintenance and repair services for City-owned elevators 
and lifts with the option for up to three one-year renewals for a total up to six years in an amount not to 
exceed $590,004; approve a contingency reserve of $118,000 for large, unanticipated repairs; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement and annual renewals in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 104 (2022)
24.
Downtown San Mateo Grade Separation Railroad Crossing Elimination – Grant Funding
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an application for the Federal Rail Administration Railroad Crossing 
Elimination Grant Program in the amount of $6,000,000 to fund the development of a project study 
report, preliminary engineering plans, and environmental planning documents to assess the Downtown 
San Mateo Grade Separations Project; commit $2,000,000 in local matching funds; and authorize the 
City Manager to execute a funding agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation to encumber 
any funds awarded.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 105 (2022)
25.
2022-23 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin) – Agreement
Approve an agreement to Duke’s Root Control, Inc. for the 2022-23 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South 
Basin) project in an amount not to exceed $517,582.82; establish a contingency reserve of $52,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
26.
On-Call Private Development Mapping Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for on-call private development 
mapping services in the amount of $120,000 for a new agreement total of $300,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
11 of 386

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 5
27.
2022 Citywide Sanitary Sewer Cleaning and Inspection: Large Diameter Pipes Project – Contingency 
Amendment
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve associated with the Pipe and Plant Solutions, Inc. 
agreement for the 2022 Citywide Sanitary Sewer Cleaning and Inspection – Large Diameter Pipes Project 
in an amount of $55,000 for a new total contingency in the amount of $110,000; a new potential total 
contract, inclusive of the increased contingency, in the amount of $478,631.00; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
28.
Statewide Proposition 1 – Resolution of Support
Adopt a Resolution to affirm the City Council of the City of San Mateo's support for the passage of 
Proposition 1 in the November 8, 2022 Statewide Election.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 106 (2022)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment – Michael Reagan spoke regarding Hillsdale High School improvements. Raayan raised a concern 
regarding a crosswalk removal planned on Peninsula Avenue. 
PUBLIC HEARING
29.
Ordinance Introduction - Senate Bill (SB 9)
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner, provided a presentation on SB9 rules, outlined previous Council guidance and 
overviewed the proposed ordinance including additional development standards and interim objective design 
standards.  She noted the proposed updated definition of Historic Preservation in Municipal Code Chapter 27.66. 
Council asked questions of staff. Staff and City Attorney Prasanna Rasiah provided answers.
Public Comment – Michael Ragan stated his opposition to multi-story housing developments. Michael Weinhauer 
requested the Council align the code to include historic assets throughout the city. Raayan Mohtashemi supported 
loosening standards compared to staff recommendation. Seema Patel suggested Council consider optimizing for 
the two-unit use case. Michael Nash stated the city should look at the restoration of historic assets before they are 
gone. Jordan Grimes encouraged Council to embrace the Planning Commission’s changes to make it easier to build 
multi-family housing within the city. Erika stated her desire for professional discussion on this subject.
Council discussion ensued with direction given to staff to have Council review again after ten applications or two 
years, whichever comes first.
Motion to Introduce an ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 27.21 "Two-Unit 
Development Overlay District" to implement the provisions of SB 9, amend Chapter 27.66 "Historic Preservation" 
to update the definition of “Individually Eligible Buildings”, and adopt a Resolution to establish interim objective 
design standards for SB 9 development. Motion passed 4-1.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Papan, Lee, Goethals, and Rodriguez
Noes: 
Bonilla
Enactment:  Resolution No. 107 (2022)
12 of 386

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/19/2022
Page 6
NEW BUSINESS
30.
Consideration of Contribution to San Mateo-Foster City Education Foundation Gala and Auction
Drew Corbett, City Manager, provided a presentation on the Council’s history of giving to the San Mateo-Foster 
City Education Foundation Gala and Auction and noted the gala is October 21, 2022.
Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to adopt a Resolution to appropriate $7,260 from the General Fund's unassigned fund balance to make a 
contribution to the San Mateo-Foster City Education Foundation's Gala and Auction. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Rodriguez, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals, and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 108 (2022)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Mayor Bonilla 
asked if Council would like staff to review a Citizen Oversight Review Committee for the Sheriff’s Department and prepare 
a resolution. Council consensus was to wait and see what the County of San Mateo proposes.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 9:18 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
13 of 386

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 22-6547-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 19, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Senate Bill (SB 9) – Ordinance Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 27.21 "Two-Unit Development Overlay 
District" to implement the provisions of SB 9, amend Chapter 27.66 "Historic Preservation" to update the definition of 
“Individually Eligible Buildings”.
BACKGROUND:
On September 19, 2022, the City Council introduced the attached ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
add Chapter 27.21 "Two-Unit Development Overlay District" to implement the provisions of SB 9, amend Chapter 27.66 
"Historic Preservation" to update the definition of “Individually Eligible Buildings”. Attachment 2 includes revisions to the 
proposed ordinance from the September 19, 2022 City Council meeting. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Updates to the City’s Municipal Code to align with State law are fully funded by the Community Development 
Department’s annual budget with no additional impact to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
An ordinance adopted to implement SB 9 shall not be considered a project under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) and is exempt from CEQA review per Government Code Sections 65852.21(j) and 66411.7(n), which state that the 
adoption of an ordinance by a city or county implementing the provisions of Government Code Section 65852.21 and 
66411.7 and regulating two-unit development and urban lot split projects are statutorily exempt from the requirements of 
CEQA. The proposed text amendment to Chapter 27.66 of the Municipal Code is also separately and independently 
exempt from CEQA, pursuant to Section 15061(b)(3), which provides a project is exempt from CEQA where it can be seen 
with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance 
Att 2 – Ordinance with Tracked Changes Including Changes from September 19 City Council Meeting.
14 of 386

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7205
15 of 386

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Add Chapter 27.21, “Two-Unit Development Overlay District” to Title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
Provide for Regulations Concerning Two-Unit Residential Developments and Urban Lot Splits in Single Family 
Residential Zones and Amending Section 27.66 “Historic Preservation” for Consistency with the General Plan
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 9 (“SB 9”), which amended Section 66452.6 of the Government Code and added 
Sections 65852.21 and 6411.7 to the Government Code to allow for streamlined ministerial approval of two-unit 
development and urban lot splits within single-family zoned areas, was signed by the Governor of California on 
September 16, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the changes to the Government Code became effective on January 1, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, SB 9 requires cities and counties, including the City of San Mateo, to ministerially approve a 
parcel map for an urban lot split and/or a proposed housing development containing a maximum of two primary 
residential units within a single-family residential zone, if the proposal meets certain statutory criteria; and
WHEREAS, SB 9 specifies that proposed projects and subdivisions cannot be proposed in prohibited 
locations under Government Code Section 65913.4(a)(6)(B)-(K) such as lands within an earthquake fault zone, 
federally designated flood plan, historic district or property, and high fire hazard severity zone as defined under 
state law; and
WHEREAS, SB 9 further restricts the standards and regulations that local agencies, including the City of 
San Mateo, may impose to only objective zoning, subdivision, and design standards that do not conflict with the 
statue and where those standards must not physically preclude a unit size of at least 800 square feet or 
qualifying urban lot split; and
WHEREAS, the City seeks to regulate development pursuant to SB 9 through the implementation of 
regulations concerning two-unit residential development and urban lot splits; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 65852.21(j) and 66411.7(n) of the Government Code, a local agency may 
adopt an ordinance to implement SB 9; and
WHEREAS, adoption of this ordinance is not a project under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) pursuant to California Government Code Section 65852.21(j) and Section 66411.7(n) relating to the 
implementation of SB 9; and
WHEREAS, the City’s Zoning Code is codified in Title 27 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make a revision to Section 27.66 to amend the definition of Individually 
Eligible Buildings for consistency with General Plan Policy C/OS 8.1 to clarify that a historic building also includes 
those buildings determined to be eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources through 
documentation contained within a historic resources report; and
16 of 386

--- page 17 ---
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make several minor revisions to Title 27, including amending the definition 
of “Individually Eligible and Contributor Building” to align with the definition of historic buildings contained in 
the General Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 27.21 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 27 as follows:
Chapter 27.21
Two-Unit Development Residential Overlay District – R1 Districts
Article I – Two-Unit Development
27.21.010 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to allow up to two detached or attached primary housing units on one 
parcel, establish objective standards, and regulate subdivision of parcels in single-family zoned areas in 
accordance with state law. This Chapter shall be implemented and interpreted in conjunction with California 
Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended, and applicable objective standards contained 
within Chapters 26 and 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
27.21.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply. Terms not defined herein shall rely 
upon the definitions contained in Chapter 26 and Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(a) “Access Corridor” means an access easement or the ‘pole’ of a flag lot that provides vehicular access 
to the right-of-way. Access corridors shall consist of paving and be free of landscaping or other permanent 
features that obstruct ingress/egress and vehicular traffic to a parcel.
(b) “Acting in concert” means that the owner, or a person acting as an agent or representative of the 
owner, knowingly participated with another person in joint activity or parallel action toward a common goal of 
subdividing the adjacent parcel.
(c) “Car Share Facility” means one or more parking space(s) that have been designated permanently for 
car share vehicles, where the vehicles are leased for short periods of time, often by the hour.
(d) “Department” means the Department of Community Development.
(e) “Existing Exterior Structural Wall” means and constitutes the original bottom plate and original top 
plate in its existing position, original studs (with the exception for new window framing), and capable of standing 
without support.
17 of 386

--- page 18 ---
(f) “Flag or Panhandle Lot” means a parcel which includes a strip of land that is owned in fee that is used 
primarily for vehicular access from a public or private street to the major portion of the parcel. For the purposes 
of determining setbacks, the property line parallel to the primary right-of-way and part of the major portion of 
the parcel shall be the front property line. Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be based on the gross square 
footage of the parcel.
(g) “High Quality Transit Corridor” means a corridor with fixed bus route service with service intervals no 
longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours.
(h) “Major Transit Stop” means a site containing any of the following: (i) an existing rail or bus rapid 
transit station; (ii) a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service; or (iii) the intersection of two or 
more major bus routes with a frequency of service intervals of 15 minutes or less during the morning and 
afternoon peak commute periods.
(i) “Primary Unit” (also called a residential dwelling unit or residential unit) means a single-family 
residence or a residential dwelling unit within a multifamily residential development. A primary unit is distinct 
from an ADU or junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU), and may be a single-family residence (i.e. one primary 
unit) or a duplex (i.e. two primary units detached or attached).
(j) “SB 9 Dwelling Unit or SB 9 Unit” means a primary unit that is developed pursuant to the 
requirements of this Article, applicable San Mateo Municipal Code provisions, and Government Code Sections 
65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended.
(k) “SB 9 Project or SB 9 Planning Application” means a project application submitted to the City in 
accordance with this Article, SB 9, and applicable San Mateo Municipal Code provisions to do one or more of the 
following:
(1) Split a qualifying single-family residentially zoned parcel into two lots; or
(2) Develop no more than two primary units on a single lot, or
(3) When a lot is subdivided, develop no more than two dwelling units, inclusive of ADUs and 
JADUs, on a single parcel.
(l) “Senate Bill 9 or SB 9” means the state law signed by the Governor into law on September 19, 2021 
that amended Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7 to allow up to two primary units on and/or lot 
splits of qualifying single-family zoned parcels.
(m) “Substantial Removal” means the demolition of 50% or more of a structure's exterior walls 
(measured in linear feet) and/or roof (measured in square feet). Existing exterior walls that are converted to 
interior walls shall be counted as walls to be demolished. For the purposes of this Chapter, substantial removal 
for a roof shall not apply to permit applications for re-roofing where roof pitch alterations do not exceed an 
increase in height of more than two (2) feet as measured at the highest point or where a SB 9 planning 
application has been submitted as part of the proposed improvements. Doors, including garage doors, entry 
doors, and sliding glass doors, shall not be included in the percentage calculation of an existing structure's 
18 of 386

--- page 19 ---
exterior walls. This section shall not apply to an accessory building or to a residence that has been declared a 
public nuisance under this Code.
(n) “Sufficient to Allow Separate Conveyance” means that connected or adjacent units can be sold 
separately if they conform to condominium standards to allow for the adequate transfer of title, ownership, 
rights, and interests in the property from one entity to another.
(o) “Urban Lot Split” means a subdivision of an existing legal single-family zoned parcel into no more 
than two separate single-family zoned parcels that meet all of the criteria and standards set forth in this Chapter, 
applicable objective standards of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26, and Government Code Sections 
65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended.
27.21.030 Rules of Procedure
Except as otherwise outlined below, the applicable rules of procedure contained in Chapter 27.08 shall 
apply to all SB 9 planning applications. Where there is a conflict, standards in this Chapter shall prevail.
(a) Planning Application Submittal. An SB 9 planning application, on the form(s) prescribed by the 
Department, for either an attached or detached unit(s) and/or urban lot splits, shall be submitted for all 
development pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(1) An applicant may file concurrent planning applications under this Chapter for one or two-unit 
development and an urban lot split.
(2) Processing of Applications. Unless an SB 9 application is submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.035 of this Chapter, SB 9 application(s) shall be processed as prescribed in Section 27.08.040 of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, except that these applications shall be considered ministerially with no 
public hearing.
(b) Informational Notice. Upon receipt of an SB 9 planning application, and once the project is deemed 
complete, the City shall provide an informational notice that an SB 9 application has been filed with the City to 
all property owners and tenants within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and to the applicable 
neighborhood association(s) in accordance with the noticing procedures adopted by the Department.
(c) Ministerial Permit Approval. If an SB 9 planning application complies with the provisions of this 
Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. Notwithstanding anything contrary in this code, 
the issuance of a ministerial SB 9 Two-Unit Development permit and/or a SB 9 Urban Lot Split permit is not 
appealable.
(d) Submittal Requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section 27.08.010(c), each application 
shall be accompanied by all of the following:
(1) Application Forms. Completed SB 9 planning application forms as prescribed by the 
Department;
19 of 386

--- page 20 ---
(2) Property Ownership. Verification of property ownership in the form of a preliminary title 
report that is no more than a year old, showing the current owners of the property, the names of record 
owners of the land, and all existing easements and other reservations, restrictions, or covenants; and
(3) Legal Description. An accurate legal description of the property and any resultant lots in the 
case of an urban lot split application; and
(4) Plans. Scaled and accurate plans to include required applicable information as outlined in the 
Planning Application and/or Urban Lot Split Submittal Requirements checklists; and
(5) Affidavit. A completed property owner tenant disclosure affidavit and acknowledgement 
that the application meets SB 9 eligibility requirements.
(6) Findings. Findings of Approval. An SB 9 application not submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.045 of this Chapter shall be approved ministerially if the Zoning Administrator or designee makes 
all the following findings:
(A) The parcel is within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying criteria as 
outlined in this Chapter;
(B) The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and required 
by the General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted plan;
(C) The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, 
crime prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards of Chapter 23.54;
(D) The proposed SB 9 unit(s) is consistent with all applicable SB 9 objective design 
standards of the Two-Unit Overlay District
(7) Findings of Denial. An SB 9 application shall be denied if the Building Official makes written 
findings, based upon a preponderance of evidence, that:
(A) The proposed housing development would have a specific adverse impact, as 
defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of 
the Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which 
there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
27.21.040 Recordation of Deed Restriction
A deed restriction shall be submitted in a form approved by the City and recorded to run with the land 
for all development pursuant to this Article as indicated below:
(a) Prior to the issuance of any building permit(s), development pursuant to this Chapter shall require a 
deed restriction to be recorded requiring a prohibition of the establishment of short- term rentals and a 
20 of 386

--- page 21 ---
requirement that a rental or lease of any dwelling unit created pursuant to this Chapter shall be for a period of 
at least 30 consecutive days.
27.21.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval
Projects that do not meet the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to either a Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) or Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) discretionary review process.
(a) In no case shall an application for discretionary review:
(1) Propose to increase FAR above that permitted by the underlying zoning district, except to the 
extent allowed by state law; or
(2) Propose to further subdivide a parcel that had been established through a previous urban lot 
split pursuant to Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended; or
(3) Propose to increase the maximum number of permitted dwelling units; or
(4) Propose a parcel size smaller than 1,200 sq. ft.; or
(5) Propose less than one parking space per unit unless otherwise allowed per Section 27.21.070 
of this Chapter.
27.21.050 Lands Not Subject to the Two-Unit Development Residential Overlay District
The following lands classified as R1-A, R1-B, and R-C are not subject to the Two-Unit Development 
Overlay District:
(a) Any parcel that would require the demolition or alteration of any of the following housing types:
(1) Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that restricts rents to levels 
affordable to persons and families of moderate, low, or very low incomes; or,
(2) Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control through a public entity’s valid 
exercise of its police power; or,
(3) Housing that has been occupied by a tenant within the last three years; or,
(4) A parcel(s) on which an owner of residential real property has exercised the owner’s rights 
under Government Code Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 (Ellis Act) 
to withdraw accommodations from rent or lease within 15 years prior to an SB 9 application submittal.
(b) On any parcel designated an historic district or property, or located in a resource or hazard area such 
as high fire areas, wetlands, fault zones, hazardous waste sites or lands under conservation easements per 
Government Code Sections 65913.4(a)(6)(B-K), as amended.
21 of 386

--- page 22 ---
27.21.060 Limitations
For properties that develop a project pursuant to this overlay, the following limitations apply:
(a) A maximum of four units, with a maximum of two primary dwelling units (attached or detached), 
except as outlined in Article II below.
(b) Limitation on Rental.
(1) Short Term Rentals Prohibited. No dwelling unit created pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive days as a short-term rental as set forth in Chapter 5.66. 
Rentals longer than 30 consecutive days are permitted.
(c) Limitation on Sale.
(1) If two or more primary units exist on a single parcel, they shall not be sold separately until an 
urban lot split application has been approved by the City and a final parcel map recorded.
(d) Limitation on Use.
(1) Lots created pursuant to Article II of this Chapter shall be limited to residential uses only.
27.21.070 Two-Unit Development Standards
SB 9 units, as defined in this Chapter, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a) Demolition Limits. SB 9 projects that do not involve an urban lot split are subject to the following:
(1) Demolition of less than 50% of a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof shall be subject 
to a ministerial review process.
(2) Demolition of 50% or more of a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof may be permitted 
subject the Alternative Discretionary Review process listed in Section 27.21.045 of this Chapter and 
issuance of a Special Use Permit for the substantial removal of the existing structure pursuant to Section 
27.18.035 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(b) Maximum Floor Area Ratio. The maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for all structures on site shall be 
determined by the underlying zoning district with the following exceptions:
(1) Application of development standards of the underlying zoning district shall not preclude the 
construction of up to two primary dwelling units nor physically preclude either of the two units from 
being at least 800 square feet in floor area.
(2) SB 9 unit(s) in excess of 800 square feet shall be subject to a Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review (SFDDR) or Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) discretionary review process and shall be 
governed by the maximum floor area established by the underlying zoning district.
22 of 386

--- page 23 ---
(3) In instances where the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, an SB 9 
unit of up to 800 square feet in size with at least 4-foot side and rear yard setbacks and up to 16-feet in 
height shall be permitted, unless the proposed development would have a specific adverse impact, as 
defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of the 
Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which there is no 
feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
(c) Height. The specific height maximums outlined below are applicable to all zoning districts subject to 
the Two-Unit Development Overlay District:
(1) Attached SB 9 Units. The maximum building height is 24 feet to top of plateline and 32 feet 
to roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(2) Detached SB 9 Units. Maximum building height is 16 feet to top of plateline and 24 feet to 
roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(d) Setbacks. SB 9 unit(s) shall have setbacks as follows:
(1) Front Setback. A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required by the lot’s underlying 
zoning district.
(2) Side and Rear Setbacks. A minimum setback of four (4) feet shall be required from the side 
and rear lot lines.
(3) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted structure that is converted into 
an SB 9 unit or a structure constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as an existing 
legally permitted structure.
(e) Parking.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space (either uncovered or covered) for each SB 9 unit. All parking, whether required or voluntary, shall 
be located entirely on the same lot as the dwelling unit it serves and shall conform to the size 
requirements of the City’s “Standard Drawings and Specifications” as adopted by resolution of the City 
Council and on file with the Department of Public Works. Covered parking shall meet all applicable 
setbacks of the underlying zoning district.
(2) Exemptions. No off-street parking shall be required for an SB 9 unit in the following 
instances:
(A) The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of a high-quality transit 
corridor, as defined in Public Resources Code Section 2155(b); as amended; or
(B) The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of a major transit stop, as 
defined in Public Resources Code Section 21064.3(e), as amended; or,
23 of 386

--- page 24 ---
(C) The parcel is located within one block of a car share facility.
(f) Objective Design Standards.
(1) New residential construction of primary units subject to streamlined ministerial approval 
shall comply with the Interim Objective Design Standards as adopted by City Council resolution and as 
may be amended from time to time by further City Council resolution.
(g) Other Development Standards.
(1) All development pursuant to this Chapter shall also be subject to the requirements of the 
California Building Code, Fire Code and local fire sprinkler ordinance requirements.
(2) All objective standards of the underlying zoning district, Chapters 27 and 23 and other 
relevant Chapters of the San Mateo Municipal Code shall apply. If such standards conflict with this 
Chapter, the standards in this Chapter shall prevail. In no instance shall any objective building or design 
standard preclude the development of at least two primary dwelling units of at least 800 square feet 
each in size, unless the development would have a specific adverse impact, as defined and determined 
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of the Government Code, upon 
public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which there is no feasible method to 
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
Article II- Urban Lot Splits
27.21.100 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to implement SB 9, establish objective standards and regulate qualified 
Urban Lot Splits and development in accordance with state law. Article II shall be implemented and interpreted 
in conjunction with Article I of this Chapter, California Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.40 and Titles 26 and 27, and any other relevant San Mateo Municipal Code 
section or other City adopted plan.
27.21.110 Rules of Procedure
Urban Lot Split Development. In addition to the rules of procedure listed in Section 27.21.030 of Article I 
above, an Urban Lot Split application shall also conform with the following:
(a) Submittal Requirements:
(1) Full Site Survey. A full site boundary survey stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed 
by the State of California. A topographic and boundary survey shall be required for all properties with 
grades over 15%.
24 of 386

--- page 25 ---
(2) Parcel Map. A parcel map pursuant to Chapter 26 of the San Mateo Municipal Code showing 
the proposed Urban Lot Split.
(3) Affidavit. A completed owner occupancy affidavit and acknowledgement that the property 
meets Urban Lot Split eligibility requirements outlined in Section 27.21.050 and that the owner of the 
property intends to occupy one of the housing units as their principal residence for a minimum of three 
years from the date of the approved Urban Lot Split and recordation of the Final Map.
(A) Exception. This requirement shall not apply to an applicant that is a community land 
trust as defined in clause (ii) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (a) of Section 
402.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or if the applicant is a qualified nonprofit corporation 
as described in Section 214.15 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(b) Final Parcel Map. Upon an Urban Lot Split application approval, the applicant shall prepare, file, and 
record a final parcel map with the Department of Public Works pursuant to Article II of Section 26.56 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code.
(c) Dedications and Improvements. Unless required to accommodate an urban lot split or provide access 
to a parcel, no dedications of rights-of-ways or the construction of offsite improvements for parcels created 
pursuant to this Article shall be required as a condition of approval.
(d) Findings. To approve an Urban Lot Split application, the Zoning Administrator shall make the findings 
listed in Section 27.21.030 of Article I above, in addition to the following findings:
(1) The parcel being subdivided was not established through a prior SB 9 urban lot split 
application.
(2) The Urban Lot Split conforms to all applicable objective requirements of the Subdivision Map 
Act (Division 2 commencing with Section 66410), except as otherwise provided in this Section.
(3) The parcel being subdivided is not adjacent to another parcel where either the owner of the 
parcel proposing to be subdivided or any person acting in concert with said owner has previously 
subdivided the adjacent parcel using the provisions of SB 9.
27.21.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction
A deed restriction shall be submitted in a form approved by the City and recorded to run with the land 
for all development pursuant to this Article as indicated below:
(a) A prohibition of non-residential uses on any lot created pursuant to this Chapter;
(b) A prohibition of the establishment of short-term rentals and a requirement that a rental or lease of 
any dwelling unit created pursuant to this chapter shall be for a period of at least 30 consecutive days.
(c) A prohibition against further subdivision of the parcel using the Urban Lot Split procedures in this 
Chapter and pursuant to Government Code Section 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended;
25 of 386

--- page 26 ---
27.21.130 Lands Not Eligible for Urban Lot Splits
The following lands classified as R1-A, R1-B, and R1-C are not eligible for an Urban Lot Split under this 
Article, if the parcel meets either of the following:
(a) Any parcel that was established through prior approval of an Urban Lot Split subdivision as provided 
for in this Article; or
(b) Any parcel proposed to be subdivided that is adjacent to another parcel where either the owner of 
the parcel proposing to be subdivided or any person acting in concert (as defined in Section 27.21.020(b)) with 
said owner has previously subdivided the adjacent parcel using the provisions of this Article.
27.21.140 Urban Lot Split Development Standards
Development standards shall be applied to each parcel individually. Each parcel created by an Urban Lot 
Split shall conform to the Two-Unit Development Standards in Section 27.21.070 and Chapter 26 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code except as otherwise listed below.
(a) Demolition. The demolition of 50% or more a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof shall require 
the issuance of a ministerial Special Use Permit for the substantial removal of the existing structure pursuant to 
the applicable sections of Section 27.18.035 of the Municipal Code.
(b) Number of Units. On a lot established through an Urban Lot Split pursuant to Government Code 
66411.7, a maximum of two dwelling units shall be allowed per resultant parcel. In no case shall more than two 
dwelling units on a single lot in any otherwise allowed combination of primary units, SB 9 units, ADUs and/or 
JADUs be permitted.
(c) Parcel Map and Configuration.
(1) Number of Parcels. The parcel map shall create no more than two new parcels.
(2) Parcel Size.
(A) Each newly created parcel shall be of approximately equal areas. The smallest 
subdivided parcel shall not be less than forty percent (40%) of the lot area of the original parcel 
proposed for subdivision.
(B) Each newly created parcel shall be at least 1,200 square feet in gross area.
(d) Access and Driveways.
(1) Parcels resulting from an Urban Lot Split shall have access to, provide access to, or adjoin the 
public right-of-way through their frontage, access corridor, or access easement(s).
(A) A minimum 10-foot-wide strip of land owned in fee (i.e. flag lot ‘pole’) or 10- foot 
wide access easement shall be provided for all flag lots or landlocked parcels created through an 
26 of 386

--- page 27 ---
Urban Lot Split. The width of the strip of land owned in fee for flag lots or width of the access 
easement for landlocked parcels shall not be less than the driveway width requirements of 
Section 27.64.025.
(B) A minimum 20-foot-wide strip of land owned in fee (i.e. flag lot ‘pole’) or 20- foot 
wide access easement shall be provided for all flag lots or landlocked parcels created through an 
Urban Lot Split where the length of the flag lot ‘pole’ or access easement is greater than 150 feet 
in length.
(2) Access to all new lots and/or units shall be compliant with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
District standard details and specifications for driveways and turnarounds. 
(3) Easements for the adequate provision of public services and utilities and egress/ingress may 
be required.
(4) Proposed boundary lines shall be free of jogs in alignment, except where physical conditions 
and established property lines preclude the establishment of straight boundary lines, or such alignment 
would prohibit the creation of lots pursuant to this Article which are capable of being developed with 
two residential units that are at least 800 square-feet in size each.
(e) Other Development Standards.
(1) All development pursuant to this Article shall also be subject to additional development 
standards as outlined in Section 27.21.070(f) of this Chapter above.
Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.66.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Individually Eligible and Contributor Buildings. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "individually 
eligible building" shall mean those buildings as identified in the City of San Mateo General Plan, buildings which 
are on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of Historical Resources (CRHP), or 
buildings determined to be individually eligible for listing on the NRHP or CRHP through documentation 
contained in a historic resources report. "Contributor building" shall mean those buildings identified as such and 
located within the Downtown Historic District as adopted by resolution of the City Council and identified in the 
City of San Mateo General Plan.
Section 3. Subsection (d) of Section 27.66.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "individually eligible building" and "contributor building" and 
"Downtown Historic District" shall mean those buildings and district identified as such by resolution of the City 
Council, identified in the City of San Mateo Downtown Specific Plan, or as determined to be listed or individually 
eligible for listing on the NRHP or CRHP through documentation contained in a historic resources report.
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Government Code Sections 65852.21(j) 
and 66411.7(n), the adoption of this ordinance implementing the provisions of Government Code sections 
664114.7 and 65852.21 and regulating urban lot splits and two-unit development projects in single-family zoned 
areas is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”). 
27 of 386

--- page 28 ---
Therefore, the proposed amendment is statutorily exempt from CEQA in that the proposed amendments 
implement the new laws enacted by SB 9. Text amendments to Chapter 27.66 of the San Mateo Municipal Code 
to update the definition of individually eligible and contributor buildings to align with the General Plan is also 
exempt from CEQA, pursuant to Section 15061(b)(3), the common sense exemption, which provides a project is 
exempt from CEQA where it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question 
may have a significant effect on the environment.
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
28 of 386

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Add Chapter 27.21, “Two-Unit Development Overlay District” to Title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
Provide for Regulations Concerning Two-Unit Residential Developments and Urban Lot Splits in Single Family 
Residential Zones and Amending Section 27.66 “Historic Preservation” for Consistency with the General Plan
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 9 (“SB 9”), which amended Section 66452.6 of the Government Code and added 
Sections 65852.21 and 6411.7 to the Government Code to allow for streamlined ministerial approval of two-unit 
development and urban lot splits within single-family zoned areas, was signed by the Governor of California on 
September 16, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the changes to the Government Code became effective on January 1, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, SB 9 requires cities and counties, including the City of San Mateo, to ministerially approve a 
parcel map for an urban lot split and/or a proposed housing development containing a maximum of two primary 
residential units within a single-family residential zone, if the proposal meets certain statutory criteria; and
WHEREAS, SB 9 specifies that proposed projects and subdivisions cannot be proposed in prohibited 
locations under Government Code Section 65913.4(a)(6)(B)-(K) such as lands within an earthquake fault zone, 
federally designated flood plan, historic district or property, and high fire hazard severity zone as defined under 
state law; and
WHEREAS, SB 9 further restricts the standards and regulations that local agencies, including the City of 
San Mateo, may impose to only objective zoning, subdivision, and design standards that do not conflict with the 
statue and where those standards must not physically preclude a unit size of at least 800 square feet or 
qualifying urban lot split; and
WHEREAS, the City seeks to regulate development pursuant to SB 9 through the implementation of 
regulations concerning two-unit residential development and urban lot splits; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 65852.21(j) and 66411.7(n) of the Government Code, a local agency may 
adopt an ordinance to implement SB 9; and
WHEREAS, adoption of this ordinance is not a project under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) pursuant to California Government Code Section 65852.21(j) and Section 66411.7(n) relating to the 
implementation of SB 9; and
WHEREAS, the City’s Zoning Code is codified in Title 27 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make a revision to Section 27.66 to amend the definition of Individually 
Eligible Buildings for consistency with General Plan Policy C/OS 8.1 to clarify that a historic building also includes 
those buildings determined to be eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources through 
documentation contained within a historic resources report; and
29 of 386

--- page 30 ---
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make several minor revisions to Title 27, including amending the definition 
of “Individually Eligible and Contributor Building” to align with the definition of historic buildings contained in 
the General Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 27.21 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 27 as follows:
Chapter 27.21
Two-Unit Development Residential Overlay District – R1 Districts
Article I – Two-Unit Development
27.21.010 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to allow up to two detached or attached primary housing units on one 
parcel, establish objective standards, and regulate subdivision of parcels in single-family zoned areas in 
accordance with state law. This Chapter shall be implemented and interpreted in conjunction with California 
Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended, and applicable objective standards contained 
within Chapters 26 and 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
27.21.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply. Terms not defined herein shall rely 
upon the definitions contained in Chapter 26 and Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(a) “Access Corridor” means an access easement or the ‘pole’ of a flag lot that provides vehicular access 
to the right-of-way. Access corridors shall consist of paving and be free of landscaping or other permanent 
features that obstruct ingress/egress and vehicular traffic to a parcel.
(b) “Acting in concert” means that the owner, or a person acting as an agent or representative of the 
owner, knowingly participated with another person in joint activity or parallel action toward a common goal of 
subdividing the adjacent parcel.
(c) “Car Share Facility” means one or more parking space(s) that have been designated permanently for 
car share vehicles, where the vehicles are leased for short periods of time, often by the hour.
(d) “Department” means the Department of Community Development.
(e) “Existing Exterior Structural Wall” means and constitutes the original bottom plate and original top 
plate in its existing position, original studs (with the exception for new window framing), and capable of standing 
without support.
30 of 386

--- page 31 ---
(f) “Flag or Panhandle Lot” means a parcel which includes a strip of land that is owned in fee that is used 
primarily for vehicular access from a public or private street to the major portion of the parcel. For the purposes 
of determining setbacks, the property line parallel to the primary right-of-way and part of the major portion of 
the parcel shall be the front property line. Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be based on the gross square 
footage of the parcel.
(g) “High Quality Transit Corridor” means a corridor with fixed bus route service with service intervals no 
longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours.
(h) “Major Transit Stop” means a site containing any of the following: (i) an existing rail or bus rapid 
transit station; (ii) a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service; or (iii) the intersection of two or 
more major bus routes with a frequency of service intervals of 15 minutes or less during the morning and 
afternoon peak commute periods.
(i) “Primary Unit” (also called a residential dwelling unit or residential unit) means a single-family 
residence or a residential dwelling unit within a multifamily residential development. A primary unit is distinct 
from an ADU or junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU), and may be a single-family residence (i.e. one primary 
unit) or a duplex (i.e. two primary units detached or attached).
(j) “SB 9 Dwelling Unit or SB 9 Unit” means a primary unit that is developed pursuant to the 
requirements of this Article, applicable San Mateo Municipal Code provisions, and Government Code Sections 
65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended.
(k) “SB 9 Project or SB 9 Planning Application” means a project application submitted to the City in 
accordance with this Article, SB 9, and applicable San Mateo Municipal Code provisions to do one or more of the 
following:
(1) Split a qualifying single-family residentially zoned parcel into two lots; or
(2) Develop no more than two primary units on a single lot, or
(3) When a lot is subdivided, develop no more than two dwelling units, inclusive of ADUs and 
JADUs, on a single parcel.
(l) “Senate Bill 9 or SB 9” means the state law signed by the Governor into law on September 19, 2021 
that amended Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7 to allow up to two primary units on and/or lot 
splits of qualifying single-family zoned parcels.
(m) “Substantial Removal” means the demolition of 50% or more of a structure's exterior walls 
(measured in linear feet) and/or roof (measured in square feet). Existing exterior walls that are converted to 
interior walls shall be counted as walls to be demolished. For the purposes of this Chapter, substantial removal 
for a roof shall not apply to permit applications for re-roofing where roof pitch alterations do not exceed an 
increase in height of more than two (2) feet as measured at the highest point or where a SB 9 planning 
application has been submitted as part of the proposed improvements. Doors, including garage doors, entry 
doors, and sliding glass doors, shall not be included in the percentage calculation of an existing structure's 
31 of 386

--- page 32 ---
exterior walls. This section shall not apply to an accessory building or to a residence that has been declared a 
public nuisance under this Code.
(n) “Sufficient to Allow Separate Conveyance” means that connected or adjacent units can be sold 
separately if they conform to condominium standards to allow for the adequate transfer of title, ownership, 
rights, and interests in the property from one entity to another.
(o) “Urban Lot Split” means a subdivision of an existing legal single-family zoned parcel into no more 
than two separate single-family zoned parcels that meet all of the criteria and standards set forth in this Chapter, 
applicable objective standards of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26, and Government Code Sections 
65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended.
27.21.030 Rules of Procedure
Except as otherwise outlined below, the applicable rules of procedure contained in Chapter 27.08 shall 
apply to all SB 9 planning applications. Where there is a conflict, standards in this Chapter shall prevail.
(a) Planning Application Submittal. An SB 9 planning application, on the form(s) prescribed by the 
Department, for either an attached or detached unit(s) and/or urban lot splits, shall be submitted for all 
development pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(1) An applicant may file concurrent planning applications under this Chapter for one or two-unit 
development and an urban lot split.
(2) Processing of Applications. Unless an SB 9 application is submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.035 of this Chapter, SB 9 application(s) shall be processed as prescribed in Section 27.08.040 of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, except that these applications shall be considered ministerially with no 
public hearing.
(b) Informational Notice. Upon receipt of an SB 9 planning application, and once the project is deemed 
complete, the City shall provide an informational notice that an SB 9 application has been filed with the City to 
all property owners and tenants within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and to the applicable 
neighborhood association(s) in accordance with the noticing procedures adopted by the Department.
(c) Ministerial Permit Approval. If an SB 9 planning application complies with the provisions of this 
Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. Notwithstanding anything contrary in this code, 
the issuance of a ministerial SB 9 Two-Unit Development permit and/or a SB 9 Urban Lot Split permit is not 
appealable.
(d) Submittal Requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section 27.08.010(c), each application 
shall be accompanied by all of the following:
(1) Application Forms. Completed SB 9 planning application forms as prescribed by the 
Department;
32 of 386

--- page 33 ---
(2) Property Ownership. Verification of property ownership in the form of a preliminary title 
report that is no more than a year old, showing the current owners of the property, the names of record 
owners of the land, and all existing easements and other reservations, restrictions, or covenants; and
(3) Legal Description. An accurate legal description of the property and any resultant lots in the 
case of an urban lot split application; and
(4) Plans. Scaled and accurate plans to include required applicable information as outlined in the 
Planning Application and/or Urban Lot Split Submittal Requirements checklists; and
(5) Affidavit. A completed property owner tenant disclosure affidavit and acknowledgement 
that the application meets SB 9 eligibility requirements.
(6) Findings. Findings of Approval. An SB 9 application not submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.0435 of this Chapter shall be approved ministerially if the Zoning Administrator or designee makes 
all the following findings:
(A) The parcel is within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying criteria as 
outlined in this Chapter;
(B) The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and required 
by the General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted plan;
(C) The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, 
crime prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards of Chapter 23.54;
(D) The proposed SB 9 unit(s) is consistent with all applicable SB 9 objective design 
standards of the Two-Unit Overlay District
(7) Findings of Denial. An SB 9 application shall be denied if the Building Official makes written 
findings, based upon a preponderance of evidence, that:
(A) The proposed housing development would have a specific adverse impact, as 
defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of 
the Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which 
there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
27.21.040 Recordation of Deed Restriction
A deed restriction shall be submitted in a form approved by the City and recorded to run with the land 
for all development pursuant to this Article as indicated below:
(a) Prior to the issuance of any building permit(s), development pursuant to this Chapter shall require a 
deed restriction to be recorded requiring a prohibition of the establishment of short- term rentals and a 
33 of 386

--- page 34 ---
requirement that a rental or lease of any dwelling unit created pursuant to this Chapter shall be for a period of 
at least 30 consecutive days.
27.21.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval
Projects that do not meet the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to either a Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) or Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) discretionary review process.
(a) In no case shall an application for discretionary review:
(1) Propose to increase FAR above that permitted by the underlying zoning district, except to the 
extent allowed by state law; or
(2) Propose to further subdivide a parcel that had been established through a previous urban lot 
split pursuant to Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended; or
(3) Propose to increase the maximum number of permitted dwelling units; or
(4) Propose a parcel size smaller than 1,200 sq. ft.; or
(5) Propose less than one parking space per unit unless otherwise allowed per Section 27.21.070 
of this Chapter.
27.21.050 Lands Not Subject to the Two-Unit Development Residential Overlay District
The following lands classified as R1-A, R1-B, and R-C are not subject to the Two-Unit Development 
Overlay District:
(a) Any parcel that would require the demolition or alteration of any of the following housing types:
(1) Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that restricts rents to levels 
affordable to persons and families of moderate, low, or very low incomes; or,
(2) Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control through a public entity’s valid 
exercise of its police power; or,
(3) Housing that has been occupied by a tenant within the last three years; or,
(4) A parcel(s) on which an owner of residential real property has exercised the owner’s rights 
under Government Code Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 (Ellis Act) 
to withdraw accommodations from rent or lease within 15 years prior to an SB 9 application submittal.
(b) On any parcel designated an historic district or property, or located in a resource or hazard area such 
as high fire areas, wetlands, fault zones, hazardous waste sites or lands under conservation easements per 
Government Code Sections 65913.4(a)(6)(B-K), as amended.
34 of 386

--- page 35 ---
27.21.060 Limitations
For properties that develop a project pursuant to this overlay, the following limitations apply:
(a) A maximum of four units, with a maximum of two primary dwelling units (attached or detached), 
except as outlined in Article II below.
(b) Limitation on Rental.
(1) Short Term Rentals Prohibited. No dwelling unit created pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive days as a short-term rental as set forth in Chapter 5.66. 
Rentals longer than 30 consecutive days are permitted.
(c) Limitation on Sale.
(1) If two or more primary units exist on a single parcel, they shall not be sold separately until an 
urban lot split application has been approved by the City and a final parcel map recorded.
(d) Limitation on Use.
(1) Lots created pursuant to Article II of this Chapter shall be limited to residential uses only.
27.21.070 Two-Unit Development Standards
SB 9 units, as defined in this Chapter, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a) Demolition Limits. SB 9 projects that do not involve an urban lot split are subject to the following:
(1) Demolition of less than 50% of a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof shall be subject 
to a ministerial review process.
(2) Demolition of 50% or more of a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof may be permitted 
subject the Alternative Discretionary Review process listed in Section 27.21.0435 of this Chapter and 
issuance of a Special Use Permit for the substantial removal of the existing structure pursuant to Section 
27.18.035 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(b) Maximum Floor Area Ratio. The maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for all structures on site shall be 
determined by the underlying zoning district with the following exceptions:
(1) Application of development standards of the underlying zoning district shall not preclude the 
construction of up to two primary dwelling units nor physically preclude either of the two units from 
being at least 800 square feet in floor area.
(2) SB 9 unit(s) in excess of 800 square feet shall be subject to a Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review (SFDDR) or Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) discretionary review process and shall be 
governed by the maximum floor area established by the underlying zoning district.
35 of 386

--- page 36 ---
(3) In instances where the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, an SB 9 
unit of up to 800 square feet in size with at least 4-foot side and rear yard setbacks and up to 16-feet in 
height shall be permitted, unless the proposed development would have a specific adverse impact, as 
defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of the 
Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which there is no 
feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
(c) Height. The specific height maximums outlined below are applicable to all zoning districts subject to 
the Two-Unit Development Overlay District:
(1) Attached SB 9 Units. The maximum building height is 24 feet to top of plateline and 32 feet 
to roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(2) Detached SB 9 Units. Maximum building height is 16 feet to top of plateline and 24 feet to 
roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(d) Setbacks. SB 9 unit(s) shall have setbacks as follows:
(1) Front Setback. A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required by the lot’s underlying 
zoning district.
(2) Side and Rear Setbacks. A minimum setback of four (4) feet shall be required from the side 
and rear lot lines.
(3) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted structure that is converted into 
an SB 9 unit or a structure constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as an existing 
legally permitted structure.
(e) Parking.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space (either uncovered or covered) for each SB 9 unit. All parking, whether required or voluntary, shall 
be located entirely on the same lot as the dwelling unit it serves and shall conform to the size 
requirements of the City’s “Standard Drawings and Specifications” as adopted by resolution of the City 
Council and on file with the Department of Public Works. Covered parking shall meet all applicable 
setbacks of the underlying zoning district.
(2) Exemptions. No off-street parking shall be required for an SB 9 unit in the following 
instances:
(A) The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of a high-quality transit 
corridor, as defined in Public Resources Code Section 2155(b); as amended; or
(B) The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of a major transit stop, as 
defined in Public Resources Code Section 21064.3(e), as amended; or,
36 of 386

--- page 37 ---
(C) The parcel is located within one block of a car share facility.
(f) Objective Design Standards.
(1) New residential construction of primary units subject to streamlined ministerial approval 
shall comply with the Interim Objective Design Standards as adopted by City Council resolution and as 
may be amended from time to time by further City Council resolution.
(g) Other Development Standards.
(1) All development pursuant to this Chapter shall also be subject to the requirements of the 
California Building Code, Fire Code and local fire sprinkler ordinance requirements.
(2) All objective standards of the underlying zoning district, Chapters 27 and 23 and other 
relevant Chapters of the San Mateo Municipal Code shall apply. If such standards conflict with this 
Chapter, the standards in this Chapter shall prevail. In no instance shall any objective building or design 
standard preclude the development of at least two primary dwelling units of at least 800 square feet 
each in size, unless the development would have a specific adverse impact, as defined and determined 
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as amended, of the Government Code, upon 
public health and safety or the physical environment, and for which there is no feasible method to 
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
Article II- Urban Lot Splits
27.21.100 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to implement SB 9, establish objective standards and regulate qualified 
Urban Lot Splits and development in accordance with state law. Article II shall be implemented and interpreted 
in conjunction with Article I of this Chapter, California Government Code Sections 65852.21 and 66411.7, San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.40 and Titles 26 and 27, and any other relevant San Mateo Municipal Code 
section or other City adopted plan.
27.21.110 Rules of Procedure
Urban Lot Split Development. In addition to the rules of procedure listed in Section 27.21.030 of Article I 
above, an Urban Lot Split application shall also conform with the following:
(a) Submittal Requirements:
(1) Full Site Survey. A full site boundary survey stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed 
by the State of California. A topographic and boundary survey shall be required for all properties with 
grades over 15%.
37 of 386

--- page 38 ---
(2) Parcel Map. A parcel map pursuant to Chapter 26 of the San Mateo Municipal Code showing 
the proposed Urban Lot Split.
(3) Affidavit. A completed owner occupancy affidavit and acknowledgement that the property 
meets Urban Lot Split eligibility requirements outlined in Section 27.21.050 and that the owner of the 
property intends to occupy one of the housing units as their principal residence for a minimum of three 
years from the date of the approved Urban Lot Split and recordation of the Final Map.
(A) Exception. This requirement shall not apply to an applicant that is a community land 
trust as defined in clause (ii) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (a) of Section 
402.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or if the applicant is a qualified nonprofit corporation 
as described in Section 214.15 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(b) Final Parcel Map. Upon an Urban Lot Split application approval, the applicant shall prepare, file, and 
record a final parcel map with the Department of Public Works pursuant to Article II of Section 26.56 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code.
(c) Dedications and Improvements. Unless required to accommodate an urban lot split or provide access 
to a parcel, no dedications of rights-of-ways or the construction of offsite improvements for parcels created 
pursuant to this Article shall be required as a condition of approval.
(d) Findings. To approve an Urban Lot Split application, the Zoning Administrator shall make the findings 
listed in Section 27.21.030 of Article I above, in addition to the following findings:
(1) The parcel being subdivided was not established through a prior SB 9 urban lot split 
application.
(2) The Urban Lot Split conforms to all applicable objective requirements of the Subdivision Map 
Act (Division 2 commencing with Section 66410), except as otherwise provided in this Section.
(3) The parcel being subdivided is not adjacent to another parcel where either the owner of the 
parcel proposing to be subdivided or any person acting in concert with said owner has previously 
subdivided the adjacent parcel using the provisions of SB 9.
27.21.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction
A deed restriction shall be submitted in a form approved by the City and recorded to run with the land 
for all development pursuant to this Article as indicated below:
(a) A prohibition of non-residential uses on any lot created pursuant to this Chapter;
(b) A prohibition of the establishment of short-term rentals and a requirement that a rental or lease of 
any dwelling unit created pursuant to this chapter shall be for a period of at least 30 consecutive days.
(c) A prohibition against further subdivision of the parcel using the Urban Lot Split procedures in this 
Chapter and pursuant to Government Code Section 65852.21 and 66411.7, as amended;
38 of 386

--- page 39 ---
27.21.130 Lands Not Eligible for Urban Lot Splits
The following lands classified as R1-A, R1-B, and R1-C are not eligible for an Urban Lot Split under this 
Article, if the parcel meets either of the following:
(a) Any parcel that was established through prior approval of an Urban Lot Split subdivision as provided 
for in this Article; or
(b) Any parcel proposed to be subdivided that is adjacent to another parcel where either the owner of 
the parcel proposing to be subdivided or any person acting in concert (as defined in Section 27.21.020(b)) with 
said owner has previously subdivided the adjacent parcel using the provisions of this Article.
27.21.140 Urban Lot Split Development Standards
Development standards shall be applied to each parcel individually. Each parcel created by an Urban Lot 
Split shall conform to the Two-Unit Development Standards in Section 27.21.070 and Chapter 26 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code except as otherwise listed below.
(a) Demolition. The demolition of 50% or more a structure’s exterior structural walls or roof shall require 
the issuance of a ministerial Special Use Permit for the substantial removal of the existing structure pursuant to 
the applicable sections of Section 27.18.035 of the Municipal Code.
(b) Number of Units. On a lot established through an Urban Lot Split pursuant to Government Code 
66411.7, a maximum of two dwelling units shall be allowed per resultant parcel. In no case shall more than two 
dwelling units on a single lot in any otherwise allowed combination of primary units, SB 9 units, ADUs and/or 
JADUs be permitted.
(c) Parcel Map and Configuration.
(1) Number of Parcels. The parcel map shall create no more than two new parcels.
(2) Parcel Size.
(A) Each newly created parcel shall be of approximately equal areas. The smallest 
subdivided parcel shall not be less than forty percent (40%) of the lot area of the original parcel 
proposed for subdivision.
(B) Each newly created parcel shall be at least 1,200 square feet in gross area.
(d) Access and Driveways.
(1) Parcels resulting from an Urban Lot Split shall have access to, provide access to, or adjoin the 
public right-of-way through their frontage, access corridor, or access easement(s).
(A) A minimum 10-foot-wide strip of land owned in fee (i.e. flag lot ‘pole’) or 10- foot 
wide access easement shall be provided for all flag lots or landlocked parcels created through an 
39 of 386

--- page 40 ---
Urban Lot Split. The width of the strip of land owned in fee for flag lots or width of the access 
easement for landlocked parcels shall not be less than the driveway width requirements of 
Section 27.64.025.
(B) A minimum 20-foot-wide strip of land owned in fee (i.e. flag lot ‘pole’) or 20- foot 
wide access easement shall be provided for all flag lots or landlocked parcels created through an 
Urban Lot Split where the length of the flag lot ‘pole’ or access easement is greater than 150 feet 
in length.
(2) Access to all new lots and/or units shall be compliant with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
District standard details and specifications for driveways and turnarounds. 
(3) Easements for the adequate provision of public services and utilities and egress/ingress may 
be required.
(4) Proposed boundary lines shall be free of jogs in alignment, except where physical conditions 
and established property lines preclude the establishment of straight boundary lines, or such alignment 
would prohibit the creation of lots pursuant to this Article which are capable of being developed with 
two residential units that are at least 800 square-feet in size each.
(e) Other Development Standards.
(1) All development pursuant to this Article shall also be subject to additional development 
standards as outlined in Section 27.21.070(f) of this Chapter above.
Section 2. Interim Objective Design Standards. New residential construction of primary units subject to 
streamlined ministerial approval shall comply with the Interim Objective Design Standards as adopted by City 
Council resolution and as may be amended from time to time by further City Council resolution.
Section 3.Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.66.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as 
follows:
Individually Eligible and Contributor Buildings. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "individually 
eligible building" shall mean those buildings as identified in the City of San Mateo General Plan, buildings which 
are on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of Historical Resources (CRHP), or 
buildings determined to be individually eligible for listing on the NRHP or CRHP through documentation 
contained in a historic resources report. "Contributor building" shall mean those buildings identified as such and 
located within the Downtown Historic District as adopted by resolution of the City Council and identified in the 
City of San Mateo General Plan.
Section 4.Section 3. Subsection (d) of Section 27.66.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as 
follows:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "individually eligible building" and "contributor building" and 
"Downtown Historic District" shall mean those buildings and district identified as such by resolution of the City 
40 of 386

--- page 41 ---
Council, identified in the City of San Mateo Downtown Specific Plan, or as determined to be listed or individually 
eligible for listing on the NRHP or CRHP through documentation contained in a historic resources report.
Section 5.Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Government Code Sections 
65852.21(j) and 66411.7(n), the adoption of this ordinance implementing the provisions of Government Code 
sections 664114.7 and 65852.21 and regulating urban lot splits and two-unit development projects in single-
family zoned areas is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act 
(“CEQA”). Therefore, the proposed amendment is statutorily exempt from CEQA in that the proposed 
amendments implement the new laws enacted by SB 9. Text amendments to Chapter 27.66 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code to update the definition of individually eligible and contributor buildings to align with the 
General Plan is also exempt from CEQA, pursuant to Section 15061(b)(3), the common sense exemption, which 
provides a project is exempt from CEQA where it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the 
activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment.
Section 6.Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be 
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other 
sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 7.Section 6. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of 
the City Charter.
Section 8.Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to 
complete., and adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
41 of 386

--- page 42 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 22-6564
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 3, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Mosquito Abatement – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a three-year agreement with the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District for mosquito 
monitoring and abatement at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not-to-exceed $40,000, and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue any change orders within 
the agreement amount.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District (District) provides countywide mosquito abatement services 
to the public as a public health service. The District operates pursuant to the statutory laws relating to mosquito 
abatement and pest abatement districts in California Health and Safety Code, Division 3, Chapter 1, Sections 2060-2910, 
inclusive. 
The Wastewater Treatment Plant poses a potential risk for mosquito breeding. The proposed Abatement Services 
Agreement is for mosquito surveillance and control activities by the District at the Wastewater Treatment Plant that 
cannot be handled within the normal scope of the District’s programs.  
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(g), contracts with other governmental agencies are exempt from 
the City’s purchasing ordinance.  However, pursuant to City policy, intergovernmental contracts require City Council 
approval. Therefore, staff recommends the City Council approve a three-year agreement, through fiscal year 2024-25, with 
the District for mosquito monitoring and abatement services at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not to 
exceed $40,000.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Wastewater Treatment Plant Operating budget to cover the costs of the agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
42 of 386

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Alonso Barahona, Management Analyst II
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7334
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
43 of 386

--- page 44 ---
June 6, 2022 
 
City of San Mateo, Department of Public Works 
ATTN: Azalea Mitch  
330 W 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Subject: Mosquito Abatement Services Agreement FY2022-2023, 2023-2024, and 2024-2025 
 
 
Dear Ms. Mitch, 
 
Enclosed is the “Abatement Services Agreement” between our agencies for mosquito surveillance and 
control activities by the District for the wastewater treatment plant of San Mateo.  
 
The “Abatement Services Agreement” is designed to support unique mosquito control problems that 
cannot be handled within the normal scope of this District’s programs.  It should be clearly understood 
that the residents of San Mateo would continue to receive the same previous level of public health service, 
in addition to the extra service provided by this agreement. As part of an integrated mosquito control plan, 
District personnel will conduct surveillance using Co2 baited traps and other traditional mosquito field 
sampling methods at your location. Surveillance information will be used to develop a unique mosquito 
control strategy that may include the application of pesticides. Any questions regarding the treatment 
program should be directed to Casey Stevenson, Operations Director.  
 
This District operates pursuant to the statutory laws relating to mosquito abatement and pest abatement 
districts in California Health and Safety Code, Division 3, Chapter 1, Sections 2060 - 2910 inclusive.  
Please sign, date and return the original copy of the “Abatement Services Agreement” to the San Mateo 
County Mosquito and Vector Control District as soon as possible.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Brian Weber  
District Manager  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 of 386

--- page 45 ---
ABATEMENT SERVICES AGREEMENT 
 
 
The SAN MATEO COUNTY MOSQUITO AND VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT (“District”) and 
CITY OF SAN MATEO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (“Owner”) agree as follows: 
1.  
The District will perform abatement services for the Owner’s problem site as described below.  The 
District will, as reasonably necessary, develop and implement mosquito surveillance and control 
activities with appropriate material and equipment. 
2.  
Problem site:  Wastewater Treatment Plant at 2050 Detroit Dr, San Mateo. 
3.  
Owner shall reimburse District at a rate of $70.43* per man-hour for inspection and/or treatment 
work, along with the cost of District-supplied materials.  Man-hours will include setting and 
inspection of CO2 trap devices on or around problem site.  
                   Approx.:  8 Months 2 people 2 hours each week  
 
 
                   Approx.:  4 Months 1 person 2 hours every three weeks 
                   Approx.:  3 – 20 Gal BVA2 @ approx. $9.50 gal 
 
 
 
  
4.  
District personnel will advise the property owner if mosquito breeding habitat can be eliminated 
without the use of pesticides (i.e.: water circulation, fish stocking, sealing entry/exit points).  If non-
pesticide methods cannot be identified or the suggested actions fail, District personnel will employ 
control measures using public health pesticides that may include materials that kill adult mosquitoes 
(adulticides).  Use of the appropriate material will be based on surveillance results and any additional 
information acquired by Mosquito and Vector Control staff.  24-hour notice prior to adulticiding will 
be provided to Plant Management.   
5.  
The occurrence of any unusual problems that would require additional manpower, equipment and 
materials, will necessitate a change order as an addendum to this agreement.   It is understood that 
any changes would be mutually agreed to prior to the initiation of the order.  All additional costs 
related to change orders would be negotiated separately. 
6.  
Owner will pay for such services within 30 days of receipt of each bill. 
7.  
This agreement shall be effective July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2025.  Either party may terminate the 
agreement upon 30 days’ written notice to the other party. 
8.  
During the term of this agreement both contracting parties specifically waive the right to use the 
abatement procedures set forth in Health and Safety Code Sections 2060 through 2067, inclusive. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties execute this Agreement this _____ day of __________, 2022. 
 
 
 
San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District 
 
1351 Rollins Road 
 
Burlingame, California 94010 
 
 
By: ______________________________________________     _________________________ 
 
 
Name  
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
 
             Azalea Mitch 
 
City of San Mateo, Department of Public Works 
 
330 20th Ave 
 
San Mateo CA 94404 
 
45 of 386

--- page 46 ---
By: ______________________________________________     _________________________ 
 
 
Name  
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
    
46 of 386

--- page 47 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 22-6619
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City of San Mateo Conflict of Interest Code – 2022 Biennial Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to update the City of San Mateo’s conflict of interest code to account for the addition, deletion, and 
modification of positions listed as “designated employees."
BACKGROUND:
The Political Reform Act of 1974 requires, among other things, that local government agencies adopt and maintain a 
conflict of interest code. Like most cities, the City of San Mateo many years ago adopted a “model” conflict of interest 
code prepared by the Fair Political Practices Commission. The model code establishes the substantive requirements 
relating to the disclosure of financial interests and the requirements for disqualification from participation in decisions in 
which City employees and other officials might have a private, financial interest. Cities adopting the model code need only 
adopt a list designating those employees subject to the conflict of interest code’s financial interest disclosure 
requirements and specifying the scope of interests those designated employees must disclose. 
In addition to imposing the requirement to adopt a local code including the listing of designated employees, the Political 
Reform Act requires cities to review their codes on at least a biennial basis (to be conducted each even numbered year) to 
ensure that the code reflects the organization’s current staffing. 
A review of the City of San Mateo’s conflict of interest code revealed that revisions were required due to the addition of 
positions not previously listed, and the deletion of positions that have been eliminated or which do not meet the decision-
making threshold to necessitate the need to file. The exhibit attached to the resolution included with this report reflects 
these changes. 
The list of designated employees and officials does not include council members, planning commissioners, the city 
manager, the city attorney, and the finance director. These positions are not listed in the local code because they are 
already required by state law to disclose their financial interests. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact with this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
47 of 386

--- page 48 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Conflict of Interest Code Track Changes Post 2020 Biennial Review to Current 2022 Biennial Review 
STAFF CONTACT
Alesha Boyd, Management Analyst I 
aboyd@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7043
48 of 386

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. __  (2022)
UPDATING THE LIST OF DESIGNATED POSITIONS AND DISCLOSURE CATEGORIES FOR THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODES
WHEREAS, the City has adopted a conflict of interest codes designating certain positions that must 
disclose financial interests in conformance with state law; and  
WHEREAS, state law requires that local conflicts of interest codes be updated to stay current with 
changes in staffing; and  
WHEREAS, the City has conducted its biennial review and has determined that the existing codes 
must be amended to reflect staffing changes.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO HEREBY RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The list of designated positions and the disclosure categories for each position, as shown in 
the attached Exhibit A, is approved.
2.
The scope of disclosure categories, described in the attached Exhibit B, is approved.
49 of 386

--- page 50 ---
EXHIBIT A
LIST OF DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES
POSITIONS
DISCLOSURE 
CATEGORY
CITY ATTORNEY 
Assistant City Attorney
1
CITY CLERK
City Clerk
1
Deputy City Clerk
2
Management Analyst I/II
2
CITY MANAGER
Assistant City Manager
1
Communications Manager
1
Economic Development Manager
1
Management Analyst II
1
Sustainability Analyst
1
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Assistant Planner
1
Associate Planner
1
Building Inspector
1
Building Official
1
Code Enforcement Manager
1
Code Enforcement Officer I/II
1
Community Development Director
1
Deputy Community Development Director
1
Development Review Technician I/II
1
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
1
Inspection Supervisor
1
Per Diem Development Review Arborist
1
Permit Center Supervisor 
1
Plan Checker I/II/Engineer
1
Plan Check Supervisor
1
Planning Manager
1
Principal Planner
1
Principal Planner/Zoning Administrator
1
Project Manager II
1
Senior Building Inspector
1
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
1
Senior Development Review Technician
1
Senior Planner
1
50 of 386

--- page 51 ---
FINANCE
Accounting Manager
2
Budget Analyst
2
Budget Manager
2
Deputy Finance Director
1
Management Analyst I/II
2
Payroll Supervisor
2
Senior Management Analyst
2
HUMAN RESOURCES
   Human Resources Director
1
Senior Human Resources Analyst  
2
Senior Risk Management Analyst  
2
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Consulting and Applications Manager
2
Director of Information Technology
1
GIS Coordinator
2
Systems and Network Manager
2
Technical Support Supervisor
2
LIBRARY 
City Librarian
1
Deputy City Librarian 
1
Senior Management Analyst
2
Supervising Librarian
2
Supervising Library Assistant
2
PARKS AND RECREATION
Business Manager
2
Community Services Manager
1
Community Services Section Manager
2
Community Services Supervisor
2
Deputy Director of Parks and Recreation
1
Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor
2
Golf Service Manager
1
Managing Arborist
1
Park and Landscape Manager
1
Park and Landscape Supervisor
1
Parks and Recreation Director
1
Park Planning Administrator 
1
Project Manager 
1
51 of 386

--- page 52 ---
POLICE
Captain
1
Chief of Police
1
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
2
Business Manager
1
Deputy Chief of Police
1
Facilities Coordinator
2
Management Analyst I/II
2
Lieutenant
1
Police Technical Services Administrator
1
Senior Business Systems Analyst 
2
PUBLIC WORKS
Building Maintenance Supervisor
1
Business Manager
2
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1
Deputy Public Works Director
1
Engineering Manager 
1
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
1
Field Maintenance Manager
1
Fleet Services Supervisor
1
Management Analyst I/II
2
Parking Manager
1
Principal Transportation Planner
1
Project Manager 
1
Project Manager II
1
Public Works Director
1
Public Works Supervisor
1
Regulatory Compliance Manager 
1
Senior Engineer
1
Senior Management Analyst
2
Waste Management Supervisor
1
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Superintendent 
2
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent 
2
Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
1
CITY WIDE
New Positions¹
Consultants²
1.
Persons appointed to new positions shall file statements in accordance with Disclosure Category 1, 
unless the city manager has determined and verified that a more limited disclosure is appropriate.
2.
Consultants, as the term is defined in Section 18700.3 of Title 2, Div. 6 of the California Code of 
Regulations, shall file statements in accordance with Disclosure Category 1, unless the city manager has 
determined and verified that a more limited disclosure is appropriate.
52 of 386

--- page 53 ---
EXHIBIT B
DISCLOSURE CATEGORIES
Disclosure Category
1.
All investment and business positions in business entities, sources of income and interests in real 
property located or doing business in the City of San Mateo.1
2.
Investment and business positions in business entities and all sources of income located or doing 
business in the City of San Mateo.
3.
Interests in real property located in the City of San Mateo.2
53 of 386

--- page 54 ---
Attachment 2
Conflict of Interest Code Track Changes
Post 2020 Biennial Review to Current 2022 Biennial Review
POSITIONS
DISCLOSURE 
CATEGORY
CITY ATTORNEY 
Assistant City Attorney
1
CITY CLERK
City Clerk
1
Deputy City Clerk
2
Management Analyst I/II
2
CITY MANAGER
Assistant City Manager
1
Communications Manager
1
Economic Development Manager
1
Management Analyst II
1
Sustainability Analyst
1
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Assistant Planner
1
Associate Planner
1
Building Inspector
1
Building Official
1
Business System Analyst I/II
1
Code Enforcement Manager
1
Code Enforcement Officer I/II
1
Community Development Director
1
Deputy Community Development Director
1
Development Review Technician I/II
1
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
1
Inspection Supervisor
1
Management Analyst
1
Per Diem Development Review Arborist
1
Permit Center Supervisor 
1
Plan Checker I/II/Engineer
1
Plan Check Supervisor
1
Planning Manager
1
Principal Planner
1
Principal Planner/Zoning Administrator
1
Project Manager II
1
Senior Business Systems Analyst
2
Senior Building Inspector
1
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
1
Senior Development Review Technician
1
Senior Management Analyst
1
Senior Planner
1
54 of 386

--- page 55 ---
FINANCE
Accounting Manager
2
Budget Analyst
2
Budget Manager
2
Deputy Finance Director
1
Finance Director
1
Management Analyst I/II
2
Payroll Supervisor
2
Senior Management Analyst
2
Purchasing Coordinator
2
Treasury and Debt Manager
2
HUMAN RESOURCES
   Deputy Human Resources Director
1
   Human Resources Director
1
Senior Human Resources Analyst  
2
Senior Risk Management Analyst  
2
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Consulting and Applications Manager
2
Director of Information Technology
1
GIS Coordinator
2
Systems and Network Manager
2
Technical Support Supervisor
2
LIBRARY 
City Librarian
1
Deputy City Librarian 
1
Senior Management Analyst
2
Supervising Librarian
2
Supervising Library Assistant
2
PARKS AND RECREATION
Business Manager
2
Community Services Manager
1
Community Services Section Manager
2
Community Services Supervisor
2
Deputy Director of Parks and Recreation
1
Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor
2
Golf Service Manager
1
Managing Arborist
1
Park and Landscape Manager
1
Park and Landscape Supervisor
1
Parks and Recreation Director
1
Park Planning Administrator 
1
Project Manager 
1
55 of 386

--- page 56 ---
POLICE
Captain
1
Chief of Police
1
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
2
Business Manager
1
Deputy Chief of Police
1
Facilities Coordinator
2
Lieutenant
1
Management Analyst I/II
2
Police Technical Services Administrator
1
Records and Communications Manager
2
Senior Business Systems Analyst 
2
Vehicle Abatement Officer
2
PUBLIC WORKS
Building Maintenance Supervisor
1
Business Manager
2
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1
Deputy Public Works Director
1
Engineering Manager 
1
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
1
Field Maintenance Manager
1
Fleet Services Supervisor
1
Management Analyst I/II
2
Parking Manager
1
Principal Transportation Planner
1
Project Manager 
1
Project Manager II
1
Public Works Director
1
Public Works Supervisor
1
Regulatory Compliance Manager 
1
Senior Engineer
1
Senior Management Analyst
2
Waste Management Supervisor
1
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Superintendent 
2
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent 
2
Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
1
CITY WIDE
New Positions¹
Consultants²
1.
Persons appointed to new positions shall file statements in accordance with Disclosure Category 1, 
unless the city manager has determined and verified that a more limited disclosure is appropriate.
2.
Consultants, as the term is defined in Section 18700.3 of Title 2, Div. 6 of the California Code of 
Regulations, shall file statements in accordance with Disclosure Category 1, unless the city manager has 
determined and verified that a more limited disclosure is appropriate.
56 of 386

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2313
File ID: 22-6604
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
October 3, 2022 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Supplemental Paid Sick Leave Benefit Extension
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to continue California Senate Bill 114 COVID-19 Supplemental Paid Sick Leave (SPSL) benefits past the 
bill’s expiration date of September 30, 2022 through December 31, 2022.
BACKGROUND:
Effective February 19, 2022, California Senate Bill 114 (SB 114) reauthorized the right for employees to take special paid 
leave if they were unable to work (or telework) due to certain COVID-19 qualifying situations from January 1, 2022 through 
September 30, 2022. SB 114 was retroactive to January 1, 2022, and replaced the City’s extension of the original 
Supplemental Paid Sick Leave (SPSL), which was scheduled to expire on March 31, 2022. SB 114 is set to expire on 
September 30, 2022, which would end the requirement for the City to offer SPSL for employees, meaning employees 
would be required to use their own sick leave or other personal accrued time off. 
Should extended use of SPLS not be granted, the City anticipates an increase in workers' compensation claims based on 
the fact that California's Senate Bill 1159 allows COVID-19 to be considered work related. Because the City is a standalone 
self-insured entity, all the money spent on the Workers’ Compensation claims are the City’s funds. Covering an employee’s 
lost time directly through payroll using SPLS or through the workers’ compensation claim, the City is funding the 
employee's lost time. However, should the City not extend the SPSL, the City would incur the additional costs of the 
employees seeking medical attention and the impact of significant additional Workers’ Compensation claims on our rating 
when seeking renewal of Excess Policy for our workers’ compensation program.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact related to the adoption of this resolution. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
57 of 386

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
58 of 386

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
COVID-19 SUPPLEMENTAL PAID SICK LEAVE EXTENSION
WHEREAS, effective February 19, 2022, California Senate Bill 114 reauthorized the right for employees 
to take special paid leave if they were unable to work (or telework) due to certain COVID-19 qualifying situations 
from January 1, 2022, through September 30, 2022; and
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 114 is set to expire on September 30, 2022, which would end the requirement for 
the City to offer Supplemental Paid Sick Leave (SPSL) for employees, meaning employees would be required to 
use their own sick leave or other personal accrued time off; and
WHEREAS, should extended use of SPSL benefits not be granted, the City anticipates an increase in 
workers' compensation claims based on the fact that California's Senate Bill 1159 allows COVID-19 to be 
considered work related; and
WHEREAS, the City is a standalone self-insured entity, all the money spent on the Workers’ 
Compensation claims are the City’s funds; and
WHEREAS, covering an employee’s lost time directly through payroll using SPSL or through the Workers’ 
Compensation claim, the City is funding the employee's lost time; and
WHEREAS, should the City not extend the SPSL benefit, the City would incur the additional costs of the 
employees seeking medical attention and the impact of significant additional Workers’ Compensation claims on 
our rating when seeking renewal of Excess Policy for our Workers’ Compensation program; and
WHEREAS, this action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The City will continue California Senate Bill 114 COVID-19 Supplemental Paid Sick Leave (SPSL) 
benefits past the bill’s expiration date of September 30, 2022, through December 31, 2022. 
59 of 386

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDA
Account No.: 21-467
File ID: 22-6629
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 3, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste – 2023 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize staff to mail a notice to all property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and 
compost collection rates for 2023.
BACKGROUND:
The City’s Solid Waste Program (Program) includes waste diversion and trash reduction efforts, litter and illegal dumping 
abatement, and ensures compliance with all county, regional, state, and federal regulations. Solid waste, recycling, and 
compost services are available to all residents and commercial businesses in the City.  
Each year, Council approves the solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates to cover the cost of these services. 
These costs include collection services provided by Recology San Mateo County; disposal and processing fees by South Bay 
Recycling, LLC; and agency fees, which include the City’s program, street sweeping, trash capture capital, and landfill 
closure costs. HF&H Consultants (HF&H) contracted with the City to assist in developing a rate structure to fund the cost of 
solid waste services provided to both the residential and commercial sectors.  
During the August 15, 2022 Council meeting, staff presented alternatives for adjusting solid waste rates to bring them in 
alignment with the costs of service and to implement the Program. Based on the presentation, Council’s feedback was as 
follows: 
•
Approve a five-year rate plan for years 2023 - 2027, with a potential to come back sooner if needed.
•
A $4.00 per month increase for 20- and 32-gallon residential cart rates. 
•
A $2.00 per month increase for 64- and 96-gallon residential rates.
•
A $2.00 per month increase for 20- and 32-gallon commercial cart rates.
•
Commercial cart rates for 64- and 96-gallon container sizes remain flat.
•
A not-to-exceed two percent increase in commercial roll-off rates in years 2024-2027.
•
Commercial solid waste and organic bin rates remain flat.
Table A below summarizes the current and proposed 2023 rates for the most common service level (one collection per 
week) for residential and commercial collection services.  While staff previously proposed adopting a five-year schedule, 
staff is now proposing to wait until further analysis can be completed.  Such an action could occur at the next rate 
adoption in Fall 2023.   
60 of 386

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Table A - 2022-2023 Residential and Commercial Solid Waste Rate Changes
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2022 Current
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2023 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.59
$23.59
$4.00
32 Gallon Cart
$28.93
$32.93
$4.00
64 Gallon Cart
$56.93
$58.93
$2.00
96 Gallon Cart
$87.08
$89.08
$2.00
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.49
$25.49
$2.00
32 Gallon Cart
$35.18
$37.18
$2.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Rates (1 collection per week)
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
Rate Setting Procedures:
While the courts have not ruled that Proposition 218 applies to solid waste collection rates from a franchise hauler, in an 
abundance of caution, the City has historically followed the “majority protest” proceedings set forth in Proposition 218.  
Accordingly, with Council’s approval, a public notification (Attachment 1) of the proposed maximum increase in solid waste 
rates will be mailed to property owners no later than October 7th, 2022. The notification will instruct property owners 
wishing to submit a written protest that they must state the purpose of the letter; include the owner or customer’s name, 
service address, assessor’s parcel number, and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served; and mail the 
statement to the Office of the City Clerk. Statements of protest that include the above criteria will be accepted through the 
time of the public hearing currently scheduled for the November 21, 2022, Council meeting. 
At the end of the public hearing, the City Clerk will tally and report the qualifying written protests and the Council will 
certify whether the written protests in opposition to the increase meet or do not meet the 50 percent protest threshold. In 
accordance with Article XIIID, Section 6, of the California Constitution, a "majority protest" exists if written protests against 
the proposed fee or charge are presented by a majority of owners of the identified parcels. If a majority protest is not 
received, the Council may then approve adoption of the increased rates. If a majority protest is received, the City cannot 
increase the rates and the rates will remain unchanged.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommendation to authorize staff to mail a notice to all property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in 
solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates does not have a financial impact. If the proposed rate adjustments are 
approved, the Solid Waste Program’s revenues will increase in alignment with the costs of service and implementation of 
the Program. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action by the City in setting the maximum rates to be charged by Recology San Mateo County relates to funding an on-
going solid waste collection service and is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
61 of 386

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Public Hearing Notification
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
62 of 386

--- page 63 ---
Notice of Public Hearing
Proposed Increase for Solid Waste/Recycling/Compost 
Collection for Rate Year 2023
CITY OF SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94403
NOVEMBER 21, 2022 7:00 P.M.
The City of San Mateo is currently considering an increase to the charges set by the City and collected by 
Recology for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal. You are receiving this notice because City 
records indicate that you are a Recology customer in the city. 
On November 21, 2022 at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard, the San Mateo City Council 
will hold a Public Hearing to accept public input and testimony on a proposed increase on the maximum allowable 
charge for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal, to be effective January 1, 2023. Any interested 
person may present verbal or written input to the City Council. Although the City Council will consider all input, 
State law provides that only the written protests of property owners may be counted to determine whether a 
majority protest (50% of all parcels +1) to the proposed maximum exists.  If, at the conclusion of the public 
hearing, a majority protest of property owners does not exist, the City Council will consider adoption of the 
proposed increase in the maximum allowable charges.
How Solid Waste Rates are Determined 
The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management 
Authority (SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory 
compliance mandates.  These include street sweeping, trash capture capital costs, and landfill closure costs.  
Customer rates are adjusted as required to generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services. 
These services are available to or provided as a benefit to all City of San Mateo residents and commercial 
businesses. Recommended rates are reviewed by the South Bayside Waste Management Authority Board of 
Directors based on a financial evaluation of operating costs and projected revenues. Single family residential bills 
are based on the size of your solid waste cart and covers the cost of collecting solid waste, recycling, and organic 
material.  Commercial and multi-family bills are based on the size of your solid waste container and frequency 
of collection (e.g., 1 time per week, 2 times per week) and covers the cost of collecting solid waste and recycling.  
In addition, commercial and multi-family bills include a charge for organic material collections based on the size 
and frequency of collection of your organic material container.
Proposed Rate Increases 
The proposed change is directly related to the following causes: the need to set residential rates to cover the cost 
of the actual services provided; current costs do not cover the cost of the services; the 2021 revenue shortfall; and 
the increased cost associated with the mandates of State Senate Bill 1383 requiring all commercial businesses, 
multi-family and single family residents to recycle all organic waste to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Mandatory recycling of clean organic waste is the next step toward achieving California’s greenhouse gas 
emission goals. Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the decomposition of organic wastes in landfills have 
been identified as a significant source of emissions contributing to global climate change. The City is mandated 
by the State to divert organic debris from landfills and therefore faces severe financial penalties if it does not. 
63 of 386

--- page 64 ---
Organic waste such as green materials and food materials are recyclable through composting and mulching, and 
through anaerobic digestion.
Impact of Proposed Increase on Solid Waste Bills
The following chart illustrates the monthly rates, including all City fees, for residential services and the most 
common service level rates for commercial customers. Residential and commercial cart rate increases for 20- and 
32-gallon carts will increase $4.00 and 64- and 96-gallon cart rates will increase $2.00. Commercial metal bin 
service rates will remain flat.  Commercial Organic Collection is offered at a 25% discounted rate from the cost 
of the commercial garbage rates. The full rate schedule, including all commercial services, is available for review 
at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the City Clerk’s Office at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
Recology provides additional services upon request that are not included in the City’s solid waste collection rate. 
Additional services include backyard or distance service, additional carts, and extra on-call pickups of bulk items. 
The fees for optional services will appear on the customer’s Recology San Mateo County bill as separate line 
items in addition to the standard cost of collection.  A complete list of all the additional services and their 2022 
cost is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the City Clerk’s Office located at 330 W. 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo. For Questions, please call the City of San Mateo, Public Works Department at 650-
522-7346.
Residential and Commercial Garbage Collection (Single family homes are billed quarterly, assuming service 
one time per week, commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2022 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2023 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
                           Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.59
$23.59
$4.00
32 Gallon Cart
$28.93
$32.93
$4.00
64 Gallon Cart
$56.93
$58.93
$2.00
96 Gallon Cart
$87.08
$89.08
$2.00
                               Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.49
$25.49
$2.00
32 Gallon Cart
$35.18
$37.18
$2.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Rates (1 collection per week)
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
How to Protest the Rate Increase
A property owner or Recology customer may submit a written protest to the proposed increase in maximum rates 
to be charged by the City’s franchisee by U.S. mail, to be received prior to the meeting date, or hand delivered to 
the City Clerk, at any time before the end of the public hearing. The City Clerk’s address is: 330 West 20th Avenue, 
San Mateo, CA  94403. Only one protest per parcel will be counted. Written protest must include the owner or 
customer’s name, service address, assessor’s parcel number (the nine-digit number that appears on your property 
tax statement) and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served.  While protests may not be 
submitted by electronic means such as email or texts, as they are not an official rate protest mechanism under 
Proposition 218, the City values all residential input and will read all correspondence regarding rates.
64 of 386

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4663
File ID: 22-6644
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue Public Improvements – Acceptance
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept public improvements in accordance with the Subdivision Improvement Agreement between 
the City of San Mateo and Chabad NP for 111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue. 
BACKGROUND:
In August 2020, Chabad NP (the subdivider) sought approval and recordation of Parcel Map No. 473 prior to the 
completion of the required public improvements associated with Planning Application (PA) 16-088, a 14,047 square-foot 
two-story synagogue and preschool, in connection with the property located at 111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue 
(the Property).  On August 26, 2020, the City Manager approved and authorized the Public Works Director to sign the 
Subdivision Improvement Agreement with the subdivider for the Property.  The agreement was executed on September 
21, 2020.  Parcel Map No. 473 merged three lots into one 17,591 square foot lot at the northwest corner of Monte Diablo 
Avenue and North San Mateo Drive. The agreement addressed the construction of the public improvements that were 
required as conditions of approval for the project and the tentative parcel map approved under PA 16-088. 
Prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider was required to provide the City surety bonds totaling 
$188,160 per Section 14 of the agreement. After this, permits were issued for the construction of the public 
improvements. On August 12, 2022, the Public Works Department signed off on the construction permits for the public 
improvements and verified that all planning application conditions of approval and public improvements have been 
satisfactorily completed. Upon the subdivider’s satisfactory completion of the public improvements, the improvements 
require acceptance by City Council. 
Following this acceptance, Section 14 of the agreement requires the subdivider to warranty the work for one year. The 
maintenance bond on file with the City will remain in effect for one year after the date of acceptance by the City Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City will assume maintenance responsibilities for all public improvements. Ongoing costs for maintenance of the new 
improvements within the City right-of-way will be funded through the Public Works maintenance budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)  The underlying project was 
categorically exempt, because it was in conformance with the General Plan policies and Zoning Code, and was located 
within an urban setting on a project site that is less than 5 acres. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15332). 
65 of 386

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Subdivision Improvement Agreement
Att 3 – Parcel Map No. 473
STAFF CONTACT
Ryan Brunmeier, Assistant Engineer
rbrunmeier@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7314
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
66 of 386

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
ACCEPTING PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT 
FOR 111, 113 AND 115 MONTE DIABLO AVENUE
WHEREAS, on August 26, 2020, the City Manager approved a Subdivision Improvement Agreement 
(“Agreement”) between the City of San Mateo (“City”) and Chabad NP for 111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo 
Avenue (“ Property”) and authorized the Public Works Director to sign the Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Agreement for the Property addressed various public improvements required as 
conditions of approval for the project, including a tentative parcel map, approved under PA16-088; and
WHEREAS, the Public Works Department has verified that all planning application conditions of approval 
and subdivision improvements have been satisfactorily completed, and Public Works staff recommends formal 
acceptance of those improvements.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The City Council accepts the public improvements in accordance with the Subdivision Improvement 
Agreement for 111, 113 and 115 Monte Diablo Avenue dated September 21, 2020, between the City 
of San Mateo and Chabad NP.
67 of 386

--- page 68 ---
EXEMPT FROM RECORDING FEE
Pursuant to Government Code 6103

RECORDING REQUESTED BY:

CITY CLERK’S OFFICE
CITY OF SAN MATEO
330 W. 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

2020-137985

41:52 am 12/02/20 AG Fee: NO FEE
Count of Pages 18
Recorded in Official Records
County of San Mateo
Mark Church
erk

woh NT

WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:

CITY CLERK
CITY OF SAN MATEO

330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

3

Subdivision Improvement Agreement

111, 113, 115 Monte Diablo Avenue, San Mateo

&nbsp;
68 of&nbsp;386


--- page 69 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND
WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:

Government Code 6103: Exempt from Recording Fee

City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 West 20° Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this_&\/ day of September , 2020, by and
between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of California ("City"), and Chabad NP a
California Nonprofit Corporation ("Subdivider").

RECITALS

A. Subdivider is the owner of that certain tract of land, more particularly described in Exhibit A
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, located at 111, 113, and 115 Monte
Diablo Avenue in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California.

B. Subdivider’s application for a tentative parcel map was approved by the San Mateo Planning
Commission on August 28, 2018, subject to various conditions.

C. Subdivider has presented to City for approval a final parcel map, dated July 2020 ("Map"),
incorporated herein by reference.

Dz Subdivider has requested approval of the Map prior to the completion of improvements.

E. The Map designates public service and sidewalk easements for the City, and Subdivider proposes
to dedicate such easements to the City.

F, As a condition precedent to accepting this offer of dedication by Subdivider, City requires
various off-site sidewalk improvements and off-site landscape improvements.

G. City desires that Subdivider post bonds to ensure the construction of the improvements that
are required under Subdivider’s Conditions of Approval, as more specifically described below.

H. City desires to assure that the improvements will be done in a good and workmanlike manner,
in accordance with the Conditions of Approval for the Tentative Parcel Map approved by the
City on August 28, 2018, City, state and federal standards.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the approval of the Map, and in order to ensure
satisfactory performance by Subdivider of Subdivider's obligations under the tentative map conditions
of approval, the Subdivision Map Act, and the San Mateo Municipal Code, the parties agree as follows:

1. Performance of Work. Subdivider shall, at its own cost and expense, perform, in a good

and workmanlike manner, all of the public improvements within and without the subdivision, which are
Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 1 of 16

&nbsp;
69 of&nbsp;386


--- page 70 ---
shown on the Map or on improvement plans, profiles, and specifications which have been submitted to
the City Engineer or may hereafter be so submitted, as finally approved, or which improvements are
required by the Conditions-of Approval, or are required to be done by any provision of law as a
condition of said subdivision (“Improvements”). Said Improvements are listed in the attached Exhibit B
and may include, but are not limited to, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, grading, signs, pavements,
driveway approaches and pedestrian crosswalks, storm and sanitary sewers, underground utilities,
signal improvements, street lighting, roadway improvements, roadway markings, landscaping,
monuments, and all appurtenant improvements. Said plans and specifications are filed in the Office of
the City Engineer.

2. Improvement Cost. The total cost of the Improvements is estimated to be $89,600.00.

3, Standards. All work to be performed hereunder shall be done to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer. No work onthe Improvements shall commence until the plans, profiles, and
specifications have been submitted to and approved by the City Engineer. All of the Improvements
shall be constructed in accordance with the approved plans, profiles, and specifications and Subdivider
shall do, or cause to be done, all work and furnish all materials necessary in the opinion of the City
Engineer to complete the Improvements in accordance with the approved plans, profiles, and
specifications, or any changes required by the City Engineer, which in his or her opinion are necessary
or required to complete the work. All costs of checking said plans, profiles, and specifications, and of all
inspections of the work shall be paid by Subdivider. Any approval under this section does not relieve
Subdivider, or its engineers or landscape architects, from liability.

4. Time of Commencement and Completion. Subdivider has already obtained a site
development permit for grading or removal of major vegetation in accordance with the San Mateo
Municipal Code. Unless otherwise approved by the City, all Improvements shall be constructed and
approved by the City Engineer within one year form date of receipt of permit for the Improvements and
prior to occupancy of any building on the site.

5. Payment of Costs. Without limitation, Subdivider shall pay all costs and expenses related
to or arising from the performance of any work to complete the Improvements, including, but not limited
to, payment for any materials, provisions, and other supplies used in, upon, for, or about said work, and
for any work or labor thereon of any kind, and for amounts due under the Unemployment Insurance Act
of the State of California, with respect to such work or labor, Costs and expenses shall also include, but
not be limited to, the costs of any engineering, plans and specifications, city personnel or consultant
costs to prepare right of way maps and related documents, construction manager, escrow payments,
contract administration, encroachment permits, utility relocation, and legal fees.

6. Acceptance by City. The City Engineer shall have the right to reject any and all
Improvements under this Agreement if they do not conform, in his or her sole judgment, with the
plans, profiles, and specifications mentioned herein and with the ordinances and standards of the City.
Final acceptance of the Improvements shall be by the City Council.

7. Guarantee and Maintenance. Notwithstanding the fact that Subdivider's plans, profiles,
and specifications, completion of work, and other acts to be performed hereunder are subject to approval
by the City, it is understood and agreed that any approval by the City shall in no way relieve Subdivider of

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 2 of 16

&nbsp;
70 of&nbsp;386


--- page 71 ---
satisfactorily performing said work or its obligations hereunder. Subdivider warrants that the plans,
profiles, and specifications submitted shall conform at a minimum to the City Standard Drawings and
Specifications and to applicable provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code in effect as of the date of this
Agreement, and that they are adequate to accomplish the work in a good and workmanlike manner, and
in accordance with sound construction practices.

8. Warranty of Work. Subdivider warrants and guarantees all work performed hereunder
and all materials used therein for a period of one year after completion and final acceptance by the
City Council.

9. Repair, Replacement or Reconstruction. If within the one year period after the City
Council accepts the Improvements, all or any portion of the work required under this Agreement fails to

fulfill the requirements of' this Agreement, then Subdivider, without delay and without cost to the City
shall repair, replace or reconstruct the defective or otherwise unsatisfactory part of the work. The repair
work, if required, shall be completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. If Subdivider fails to act in
accordance with this requirement, or should the exigencies of the situation require repairs or
replacements to be made before Subdivider can he notified, City may make the necessary repairs and.
replacement or perform the necessary work, and Subdivider shall pay to the City the actual cost of the
repairs and replacement.

10. Permits: Compliance with Law. Subdivider will, at Subdivider's expense obtain all
necessary permits and licenses for the Improvements and give all necessary notices and pay all fees
and taxes required by law. It the performance of this Agreement, Subdivider shall comply with all laws,
ordinances, regulations, arid rules of all governmental agencies with jurisdiction, including, but not
limited to, the provisions of the Government Code, the Public Contract Code, and the Labor Code of
the State of California. With regard to the Labor Code, Subdivider agrees to comply with all applicable
provisions, including, but not limited to, the wage and hour, prevailing wage, workers compensation
and various other labor requirements in Division 2, Part 7, Chapter 1, including Sections 1720 to 1740,
1770 to 1780, 1810 to 1815, 1860, and 1861, which provisions are specifically incorporated by
reference as though set forth herein in their entirety. Subdivider shall expressly require compliance
with the provisions of this Section in all agreements with contractors and subcontractors for the
performance of the Improvements hereunder.

11. Inspection by City. Subdivider shall, at all times, maintain proper facilities and provide
safe access for inspection by City to all parts of the work subject to City's acceptance. Subdivider shall pay
for all engineering, inspection, and survey services in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section
26.60.010.

12. — Reversion to Acreage. If the Subdivider fails to perform its obligations under this
Agreement after having been given an opportunity to cure any such failure in accordance with section
17(A)(5) below, Subdivider consents to the reversion to acreage of the land which is the subject to this
Agreement pursuant to Government Code section 66499.16 and to bear all applicable costs.

13.  Superintendence by Subdivider. Subdivider shall personally supervise the work or have a
competent foreman or superintendent on the work site at all times during the course of construction
with the authority to act for Subdivider.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 3 of 16

&nbsp;
71 of&nbsp;386


--- page 72 ---
14. Bonds Required. The Subdivider shall present to the City surety bonds of a form
satisfactory to the City Attorney, issued by a company authorized to issue surety bonds in the State of
California, as follows:

A. At the time of signing this Agreement, the following bonds shall be presented:

(1) Faithful Performance (100% of the cost of the Improvements) to secure faithful
performance of this Agreement by the Subdivider.

(2) Labor and Materials (100% of the cost of Improvements) to secure payment by the
Subdivider of laborers and material engaged pursuant to this Agreement, and further to
secure payment as required by the Unemployment Insurance Act.

B. At the time of signing this Agreement, or before the City accepts the improvements, the
following bond shall be presented:

Maintenance (10% of cost of the Encroachment Permit estimate amount of $8,960.00) to
secure performance of Paragraph 1 above. This bond shall remain in effect for one (1)
year after the date of acceptance by the City Council of the Improvements.

15. Alternate Security. In lieu of the bonds required above, alternative security approved by
the City Attorney may be substituted.

16. City May Require Additional Security. If either upon execution of this Agreement or
during the course of performance the City considers that it is necessary to have the Subdivider post
additional security, the City may require either an additional cash deposit or a surety bond guaranteeing
performance. The condition of the security shall be that if the Subdivider fails to perform its obligation
under this Agreement, the City may in the case of a cash bond act for it using the proceeds or in the ease
of a surety bond require the sureties to perform the obligations of the Agreement.

17. Default and Breach by Subdivider and Remedies of the City.

A. Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the Subdivider shall be deemed to be in
default under this Agreement:

(1) Failure to complete the Improvements, including the improvements as specified in
section 1 herein within two years.

(2) Failure to correct or cure any defect in the Improvements during the one-year
guarantee and warranty period.

(3) Insolvency, appointment of a receiver, or the filing of any petition in bankruptcy,
whether voluntary or involuntary, if not cured or discharged within a period of thirty
(30) days.

(4) Commencement of a foreclosure action against the subdivision or any portion
thereof, or any conveyance by the Subdivider in lieu of or in avoidance of foreclosure.

(5) Failure to.perform any obligations under this Agreement within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice from the City of Subdivider’s failure to perform, or if
performance in 30 days is not possible, failure to commence performance and diligently

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 4 of 16

&nbsp;
72 of&nbsp;386


--- page 73 ---
pursue completion thereafter, in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Agreement.

B. City reserves to itself all remedies available to it at law or in equity for any breach of
Subdivider's obligations under this Agreement.

C. City shall have the right, without limitation of other rights or remedies, to draw upon or
utilize any improvement security furnished hereunder to mitigate City's damages in the event of
Subdivider's default.

1. The City may serve written notice of any default upon the surety on any corporate
surety bond furnished as improvement security hereunder, and request that the surety
take over and complete the Improvements. If the surety, within seven (7) days after
service of such notice of default, does not give the City written notice of its intention to
perform this Agreement, or does not commence performance within five (5) days after
notice to the City of its intention to perform, the City may take over the work and
prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by other method the City deems
advisable, for the account and at the expense of the Subdivider and its surety.

2. Subdivider acknowledges that the estimated total costs and Improvement security
amounts set forth herein may not reflect the actual cost of construction or installation
of the Improvements, and consequently, City's damages for Subdivider's default shall
be measured by the cost of completing the Improvements. If the damages incurred by
the City in taking over and completing any portion of the Improvements exceed the
principal amount of the Improvement security, then the Subdivider shall reimburse
the City in the amount of such excess damages.

D. City may, without liability for doing so, take possession of, and utilize in completing the
Improvements, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Subdivider as
may be on the site of the work and necessary for the performance of the work. Subdivider
hereby consents to entry by the City and its forces, including contractors, upon any real property
in the subdivision owned by the Subdivider or by any assignee of this Agreement, in the event the
City elects to maintain or complete the work on any portion of the Improvements following
Subdivider's default.

E. Subdivider acknowledges and agrees that, upon approval of the Map for the Subdivision,
City will confer substantial rights upon the Subdivider, including the right to sell, lease or finance
lots within the Subdivision, and that such approval constitutes the final act necessary to permit
the division of land within the Subdivision. As a result, City will be damaged to the extent of the
cost of construction or installation of the Improvements upon Subdivider's failure to perform its
obligations under this Agreement. Subdivider further acknowledges that any determination as to
whether a reversion to acreage or rescission of approval of the Subdivision constitutes an
adequate or necessary remedy for Subdivider's default shall be within the sole discretion of the
City.

F. The City’s failure to take an enforcement action with respect to a default, or to declare a
default or breach, shall not be construed as a waiver of that default or breach or any subsequent
default or breach of the Subdivider.

G. If City sues to compel Subdivider’s performance of this Agreement, or to recover damages
or costs incurred in completing or maintaining the work on the Improvements, Subdivider agrees
to pay all attorneys’ fees and other costs and expenses of litigation incurred by the City in
connection therewith, even if Subdivider subsequently resumes and completes the work.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 5 of 16

&nbsp;
73 of&nbsp;386


--- page 74 ---
18. Hold Harmless. Subdivider will indemnify, defend, and hold City, its elected and
appointed officers, agents, and employees harmless from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages,
costs, injuries, or claims arising from, or alleged to arise from, the performance of, or
nonperformance of, this Agreement.

The liabilities protected against are any liability or claim for damage of any kind allegedly
suffered, incurred or threatened because of actions defined below, including personal injury, death,
property damage, inverse condemnation, or any combination of these, and regardless of whether or
not such liability, claim or damage was unforeseeable at any time before the City reviewed the
improvement plans and specifications or accepted the Improvements as completed, and including
the defense of any suit, action or other proceeding concerning these.

The actions causing liability are any act or omission (negligent or non-negligent) in connection
with the matters covered by this Agreement and attributable to the Subdivider, contractor,
subcontractor, or any officer, agent or employee of one or more of them. The indemnification in this
section is not conditioned or dependent on whether or not the City has prepared, supplied, or reviewed
any plan(s) or specification(s) in connection with this work or subdivision, or has insurance or other
indemnification covering any of these matters, or that the alleged damage resulted partly from any
negligent or willful misconduct of the City.

19. —_ Insurance Required. Subdivider’s contractor will be insuring both Subdivider and the City
as a third-party beneficiary of the construction contract. Accordingly, Subdivider’s contract with its
contractor must state that.the City is a third-party beneficiary of the construction contract and that
contractor’s insurance will satisfy all of the requirements set forth in Exhibit C of this Agreement.

20. No Waiver by City. Inspecting of the work or materials, or approval of work or materials,
or a statement by an officer, agent or employee of the City indicating the work complies with this
Agreement, or acceptance of all or any portion of the work or materials, or payments thereof, or any
combination of all of these acts shall not relieve Subdivider of its obligation to fulfill this Agreement;
nor is the city by these acts prohibited from bringing an action for damages arising from the failure to
comply with this Agreement.

21. Liability. Neither the City nor any of its officers, agents, or employees shall be liable to
Subdivider, its contractor, subcontractors, officers, agents, or employees, for any error or omission, or
any obligation whatsoever; arising out of or in connection with any work to be performed under this
Agreement. The City, its elected or appointed officers, agents, and employees shall not be liable to the
Subdivider or to any person, firm or corporation whatsoever, for any error or omission, or any obligation
or liability whatsoever, arising out of or in connection with any work to be performed under this
Agreement.

22. Use and Maintenance of Improvements. Subdivider agrees that the use of any and all of
the Improvements, for any person and by any person, shall be at the sole and exclusive risk of the
Subdivider at all times prior to final acceptance by City. Subdivider agrees to assume all maintenance
responsibilities for the Improvements until final acceptance by City.

23. Title to Improvements. Title to and ownership of all Improvements shall vest in City for
the Improvements.

24. Final Inspection, Certification and Acceptance. All of the Improvements must be
completed prior to the final inspection. Notice in writing, requesting final inspection, shall be

Subdivision Improvement Agreement * Page 6 of 16

&nbsp;
74 of&nbsp;386


--- page 75 ---
submitted to the City Engineer at least five days prior to the anticipated date of final inspection. Upon
the Subdivider’s satisfactory completion of the Improvements, the City Engineer shall certify that the
Improvements have been satisfactorily completed, shall recommend acceptance of the Improvements
by the City Council, and shall place the matter on the next available City Council agenda.

25. Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement. The Improvements shall be
completed within two years of the date of this Agreement. The City Engineer may extend the time for
completion of Improvements hereunder, upon good cause being shown by the Subdivider. Any extension
must be documented in an amendment to this Agreement. Any such extension may be granted without
notice to the Subdivider's surety and any extension so granted shall not relieve surety’s liability on the
bonds.

26. Assignment of Contract. Neither this Agreement, nor any part of it, is assignable by
Subdivider without the written consent of the City, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

27.  Subdivider Not Agent of City. Neither Subdivider nor its agents or contractors are agents
of City in connection with the performance of Subdivider's obligations under this Agreement.

28. Notices. All notices required shall be in writing, and delivered in person or sent by
registered mail, postage prepaid. A party or the surety may change the address by notice in writing to
the other party and thereafter notices shall be addressed and transmitted to the new address.

A. Notices to the City shall be addressed as follows:

Department of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 West 20 Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Attn: Brad B. Underwood

B. Notices to the Subdivider shall be addressed as follows:

Chabad, NP

137 N. San Mateo Drive

San Mateo, CA 94401

Attn: Yosef.Marcus, President

C. Notices for the Subdivider's surety shall be sent to:

RLI Insurance

9025 N. Lindbergh Dr.

Peoria, IL. 61615

P.O. Box 3976 Peoria, IL 61612

Attn: Carrie Heckendorf, Attorney in Fact

29. Heirs, Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure, to the
benefit of the heirs, successors and assigns of the parties.
Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 7 of 16

&nbsp;
75 of&nbsp;386


--- page 76 ---
30. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with
respect to its subject matter. All modifications, amendments, or waivers of any terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties.

31. Agreement Attaches to the Land and Recordation. This Agreement pertains to and runs
with the real property described in Exhibit A. This Agreement binds the successors in interest of each

of the parties to it until all the improvements have been completed and certified complete by the City
of San Mateo. The City shall cause this Agreement to be recorded with the County Recorder and a copy
will be provided to Subdivider.

32. Severability Clause. If any portion of this Agreement is adjudged invalid, its remaining
provisions are not affected.

[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE]

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 8 of 16

&nbsp;
76 of&nbsp;386


--- page 77 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
validity of that document.

State of California
County of San Mateo

On September 21, 2020 before me, Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
(insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared _ Brad B. Underwood

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

wenaane “lbD /

&nbsp;
77 of&nbsp;386


--- page 78 ---
NON-CITY SIGNATURES TO BE NOTARIZED

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and SUBDIVIDER have executed this Agreement the day and year first
above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO SUBDIVIDER

Chabad, NP
a California Nonprofit Corporation

orks Director Yosef Marcus,/President/Executive Director

Brad B. A d, Publi
Its Authorized Agent
21 | ze q|&{ Acre

Date . Date

ee

Shan a, Ma

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 9 of 16

&nbsp;
78 of&nbsp;386


--- page 79 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who signed
the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA |
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO: |
Lo a fe yo : . , Ai
On SE p WA & DPV __, before me, E }, ier y wl Art. » WHA ne undersigned Notary
Public, personally appeared 7S£ F. BYR UCH i{Akeijyyho proved to mie on the basis of satisfactory

evidence to be the person(s) Whose name(s) is (are} subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me
that he/she/théy executed the same in his/her/theif authorized capacity(igs), and that by his/her/their signature(s)
on the instrument the person(s); or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is
true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signed by: bln

Notary Public, State of California

ADDITIONAL OPTIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THIS FORM
Any acknowledgment completed in California must contain verbiage exactly as appears
above in the notary section or a separate acknowledgment form must be properly completed
and attached to that document. The only exception is if a document is to be recorded outside
of California. In such instances, any alternative acknowledgment verbiage as may be printed
on such a document so long as the verbiage does not require the notary to do something that
is illegal for a notary in California (i.e., certifying the authorized capacity of the signer). Please
check the document carefully for proper notarial wording and attach this form if required.
(Title or description of attached document continued) ® State and County information must be the State and County where the document signer(s)
personally appeared before the notary public for acknowledgment.
Number of Pages © Date of notarization must be the date that the signer(s) personally appeared which must
Document Date OS also be the same date the acknowledgment is completed.
— @ The notary public must print his or her name as it appears within his or her commission
(Additional information) followed by a comma and then your title (notary public).
© Print the name(s) of document signer(s) who personally appear at the time of notarization.
@ Indicate the correct singular or plural forms by crossing off incorrect forms (i.e.,
he/she/they, is/are) or circling the correct forms. Failure to correctly indicate this
information may lead to rejection of document recording.
The notary seal impression must be clear and photographically reproducible. Impression
must not cover text or lines. If seal impression smudges, re-seal if a sufficient area permits,
otherwise complete a different acknowledgment form.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT

(Title or description of attached document)

CAPACITY CLAIMED BY THE SIGNER e Signature of the notary public must match the signature on file with the office of the county clerk.
Individual (a) # Additional information is not required but could help to ensure this acknowledgment is not
Corporate Officer misused or attached to a different document.

Indicate title or type of attached document, number of pages and date.
(Title) Indicate the capacity claimed by the signer. If the claimed capacity is a corporate officer, indicate
Partner(a) the title (i.e., CEO, CFO, Secretary).
Attorney-in-Fact Securely attach this document to the signed document
Trustee(s)
Other
Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 10 of 16

&nbsp;
79 of&nbsp;386


--- page 80 ---
Exhibit A

DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as follows:

PARCEL A:

COMMENCING AT A POINT ON THE NORTHWESTERLY LNE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE DISTANT
THEREON 139.98 FEE SOUTHWESTERLY FROM THE POINT OF INTRSECTION OF SAID LINE OF MONTE
DIABLO AVENUE WITH THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF GRIFFITH AVENUE; THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY
ALONG SAID LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE 44 FEET TO THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF LOT 17 IN
BLOCK 5 AS HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ON AND ALONG SAID SOUTHWESTERLY
LINE OF SAID LOT 95.67 FEET, MORE OR LESS, TO THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT; THENCE
NORTHEASTERLY ON AND ALONG SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT, 44 FEET MORE OR LESS, TO A
POINT IN SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE WHICH IS DISTANT THEREON 139.48 FEET SOUTHWESTERLY FROM
THE INTERSECTION THEREWITH OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF GRIFFITH AVENUE; THENCE IN A
DIRECT LINE SOUTHEASTERLY 95.67 FEE TO THE POINT OF COMMENCEMENT.

BEING A PORTION OF LOT t7 IN BLOCK 5 OF THE WESTERN ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO,
ACCORING TO AN AS THE SAID LOT AND SAID BLOCK ARE SHOWN, DESGINATED AND DELINEATED UPON
THE CERTAIN MAPE ENTITLED “MAP OF THE SUBDIVISIONS OF BLOCKS IN THE WESTERN ADDITION TO
THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO, WHICH MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFIECE OF TH RCORDER OF THE COUNTY OF
SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON APRIL 12, 1889 IN BOOK 1 OF MAPS, PAGE 52.

PARCEL B:

COMMENCING AT A POINT ON THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE, DISTANT
THEREON NINETY-FIVE AND 98/100 (95.98) FEET SOUTHWESTERLY FROM THE POINT OF INTERSECTION
OF SAID LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE WITH THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF GRIFFITH AVENUE;
THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ALONG SAID LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE FORTY-FOUR (44) FEETO A
POINT DISTANT THEREON FORTY-FOUR (44) FEET MORE OR LESS NORTHEASTERLY FROM THE
SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF LOT 17 IN BLOCK 5, AS HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY
AND PARALLELING SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT ON NINETY-FIVE AND 67/100 (95.67) FEET,
MORE OR LESS, TO THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT; THENCE NORTHEASTERLY ON AND ALONG
SAID NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT FORTY-FOUR FEET (44), MORE OR LESS, TO THE POINT IN SAID
NORTHWESTERLY LINE DISTANT THEREON NINETY-FINE AND 48/100 (95.48) FEE SOUTHWESTERLY FROM
THE INTERSECTION THEREWITH OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF GRIFFITH AVENUE; THENCE IN A
DIRECT LINE SOUTHEASTERLY NINETY-FIVE AND 67/100 (95.67) FEET TO THE POINT OF COMMENCEMENT.
THE WESTRN ADDITION OF THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO, ACCORDING TO AND AS THE SAID LOT AND SAID
BLOCK ARE SHOWN, DESIGNATED AND DELINEATED UPON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED “MAP OF THE
SUBDIVISIONS OF BLOCKS IN THE WESTERN ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO”, WHICH SAID MAP
WAS FILED FOR THE RECORD AND RECORDED IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF THE COUNTY
OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNA, ON THE 12™ DAY OF APRIL, 1889 IN BOOK 1 OF MAPS, PAGE 52
THEREOF, SAID SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS, TO WHICH SAID MAP AND SAID RECORD THEREOF
REFERENCE TO HEREBY MADE AND THE SAME MADE PART HEREOF FOR GREATER CERTAINTY.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 11 of 16

S&nbsp;
80 of&nbsp;386


--- page 81 ---
PARCEL C:

PORTION OF LOT 17, IN BLOCK 5, AS DESIGNATED ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED, “MAP OF THE
SUBDIVISIONS OF BLOCKS IN THE WESTERN ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA”, WHICH MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF
SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA ON APRIL 12, 1889, IN BOOK “D” OF MAPS, PAGE 48 AND A COPY
ENTERED IN BOOK 1 OF MAPS, PAGE 52, MORE PARTICULARY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE, DISTANT THEREON
45 FEET SOUTHWESTERLY FROM THE POINT OF INTERSECTION OF SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF MONTE
DIABLO AVENUE WITH THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAN MATEO DRIVE, FORMERLY GRIFFITH AVENUE
AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON AND ALONG SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF MONTE
DIABLO AVENUE 50.98 FEET; THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLES NORTHWESTERLY 95.67 FEET TO A POINT ON THE
NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF LOT 17, BLOCK 5 ABOVE MENTIONED; THENCE RUNNING NORTHEASTERLY
AND ALONG SAID LINE OF LOT 17, 50.48 FEET; THENCE RUNNING SOUTHEASTERLY 95.67 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.

PARCEL D:

BEGINNING AT THE POINT OF INTERSECTION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF MONTE DIBLO AVENUE,
WITH THE SOURTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAN MATEO DRIVE (FORMERLY GRIFFITH AVENUE) AS SHOWN ON
THE MAP ABOVE MENTIONED; RUNNING THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ALONG SAID LINE OF MONTE DIABLO
AVENUE 45 FEET TO THEMOST EASTERLY CORNER OF THE PROPERTY CONVEYED BY FRANCIS J. ROBINSON
AND WIFE TO ELLA DRYNAN LETHAM, BY DEED DATED OCTOBER 14, 1921 AND RECORDED IN BOOK 23 OF
OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, PAGE 119, RUNNING THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLES
NORTHWESTERLY ALONG THE LINE OF THE PROPERTY CONVEYED AS AFORESAID AND THE
PROLONGATION THEREOF, 95.67 FEET TO THE LINE DIVIDING LOTS 16 AND 17 IN SAID BLOCK 5; THENCE
NORTHEASTERLY ALONG SAID LINE, 45 FEET TO THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAN MATEO DRIVE
(FORMERLY GRIFFITH AVENUE) AND THENCE ALONG SAID LINE, SOUTHEASTERLY 95.67 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.

APN(S): 032-197-170; JPN: 032-019-197-16A (Affects Parcel A) 023-197-150; JPN: 032-019-197-15A
(Affects Parcel B) 032-197-330; JPN: 032-019-197-13A and 023-092-197-14A (Affects Parcels C and D)

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 12 of 16

&nbsp;
81 of&nbsp;386


--- page 82 ---
- Exhibit B

Improvements

Item Unit Price Amount
Curb and Gutter . 565.00 $16,250.00
Driveway Approach - commercial $3,000.00 $3,000.00
Sewer lateral and cleanout $2,500.00 $2,500.00
Sidewalk Remove and Replace $22.00 $26,400.00

Storm drain $120.00 $1,200.00

Street lights $4,000.00 $20,000.00

Street light conduit $25.00 $6,250.00
Traffic Control $1,000.00 $1,000.00
ADA Ramp . $6,500.00 $13,000.00

Total Cost of Public Improvements $89,600.00

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 13 of 16

&nbsp;
82 of&nbsp;386


--- page 83 ---
Exhibit C
Insurance Requirements
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirements

CITY OF SAN MATEO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
330 West 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
(650) 522-7301 fax

Subdivider shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for injuries to
persons or damage to property which may arise from or in connection with the performance of the work
hereunder and the results of that work by the Subdivider, his agents, representatives, employees, or
subcontractors. With respect to General Liability, Errors & Omissions, Contractors Pollution Liability, and/or
Asbestos Pollution Liability, coverage should be maintained for a minimum of five (5) years after contract
completion.

MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE

5.

Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an
“occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and
personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25
04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.

Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 0001 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
Contractor has no owned autos, hired (Code 8) and non-owned (Code 9) autos, with limit no less than
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.

Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.

Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & Omissions applicable to
the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000
aggregate per policy period of one year.

If the Subdivider maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the

City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by the Subdivider.
Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be
available to the City.

Self Insured Retentions

Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, the

Subdivider shall provide coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Subdivider shall provide evidence satisfactory to the City
guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The

policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by
Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 14 of 16

&nbsp;
83 of&nbsp;386


--- page 84 ---
either the named insured or Entity.

Other Insurance Provisions
A. The General Liability, Automobile Liability, Contractors Pollution Liability, and/or Asbestos Pollution policies
are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

1.

The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds with
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Subdivider including
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Subdivider’s insurance (at least as broad
as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if
later revisions used).

For any claims related to this project, the Subdivder’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance
coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees,
agents, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials,
employees, agents, or volunteers shall be excess of the Subdivider’s insurance and shall not contribute
with it.

Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except with
notice to the Entity.

B. The Automobile Liability policy shall be endorsed to include Transportation Pollution Liability insurance,
covering materials to be transported by Subdivider pursuant to the contract. This coverage may also be
provided on the Contractors Pollution Liability policy.

C. If General Liability, Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors &
Omissions coverages are written on a claims-made form:

1.

The retroactive date must be shown, and must be before the date of the contract or the beginning of
contract work. .

. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) years after

completion of the contract of work.

. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a

retroactive date prior to the contract effective date, the Subdivider must purchase an extended period
coverage for a minimym of five (5) years after completion of contract work.

. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.

. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification / remediation, the Contractors Pollution

Liability shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services involve mold
identification / remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability shall not contain a mold exclusion and the
definition of “Pollution” shall include microbial matter including mold.

Acceptability of Insurers

Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M.

Best rating of no less than A:VII if admitted in the State of California.

Verification of Coverage.

Subdivider shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required

amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this
clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to

City before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall

not waive the Subdivider’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified
Subdivision Improvement Agreement» Page 15 of 16

&nbsp;
84 of&nbsp;386


--- page 85 ---
copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.

Waiver of Subrogation .

Subdivider hereby grants to City a waiver of subrogation which any insurer may acquire against City, its
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers, from Subdivider by virtue of the payment of any loss. Subdivider
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation but this provision
applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the
insurer.

The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City
for all work performed by the Subdivider, its employees, agents, and subcontractors.

Subcontractors

Subdivider shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the
requirements stated herein, and Subdivider shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required
from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a format least as broad as CG
20 38 04 13.

Special Risks or Circumstances

Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior
experience, insurer, coveragé, or other special circumstances.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 16 of 16

&nbsp;
85 of&nbsp;386


--- page 86 ---
County of San Mateo
Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder
Mark Church

555 County Center
Redwood City, CA, 94063

Finalization 2020104809
12/2/20 11:52 am
011 64

Item ‘Title

1 Agreement

Document ID Amount
DOC# 2020-137985 65.00
Total 0.00
Payment Type Amount
NO FEE 65.00
Amount Due 0.00
THANK YOU
PLEASE RETAIN THIS RECEIPT
FOR YOUR RECORDS

S&nbsp;
86 of&nbsp;386


--- page 87 ---
@ 40 | LA3HS BLIGSLOZ “ON 4x8

V/AANho Yrrownts wn SEIGOB=UECR On 718
‘OBLVW NYS 40 ALIO 4O WUT ALO ‘SMO “N ZORUVd 4O LS3NOFY BHL LV

LF NY 99 S30Vd LV ‘Sd¥N T30uvd 40 og 008 NI
WZ SEip WV Oe 0% HET RV TT. st ams
LN3i ‘LS S,YaquOOSe ALNNOD

——S
ae {ejb

SHYOM INGNd JO YOLOIUIG

SETS SE=LT BVO Noivaiexa NoISSINMOD SAUVLON
€ t i] g Lee “ON NOISSINWOD SAUVLON

e@ DANY Y. MTS SS3NISNE JO ALNNOD TWdiONId SAYVLON
SBAVN GALNId SAYVLON

TFUNLYNSIS SAUVLON

SONVH AW SS3NLUA

“LOZYYOOD GNV 3NML SI HdVYOVEVd ONIOOIYOS JHL LVHL VINYOSITYO
JO 31ViS 3HL 4O SMV1 3HL Y3GNN AUNPYSd JO ALTVN3d YSONN ASLO |

“LNSAMLSNI 3HL O3LN0|X3 ‘daLov
(S)NOSM3d JHL HOIHM 4O SIVH3G NOdN ALLLN3 3HL YO “(8)NOSU3d SHI LN3NNULSNI
BHL NO (S)SUNLWNOIS WaHbAHSH/SIH AG LVHL ONV “Q3T)ALIOVdVD G3ZINOHLNY
UiaHiyAHM/SIH NI SAYS 3HL C3LNO3X3 AdM43HS/3H LVHL 3N O1 C3907 MONXOY
GNY LN3WNULSNI NIHLIM 3HL OL G3GINOSENS 3Yv/SI (S)aNVN 3SOHM (8)NOSY3d
BHL 38 Ol JONIGIAT ANOLOVASLLVS 4O SISV@ 3HL NO 3M Ol G3AONd OHM

ST IvW aFSUR aauvadey AToswad
‘onend AWLON ¥ TAGIGATS WWI 3M 380338 Teor — GT =30 No

87 of 386

Va > 40. ALNNOD
Re) “ J IN ‘ss Wmry 40 ivis

f
“4ORGHL NOUVOYOOSY i ° \ 9999 ‘ON ‘S"Td “INSNNOOG LYHL 40 ALIONVA 40 ‘AOVENOOY ‘SSINTAIHINAL ZHI LON ONY “O3HOWLLY
} HS3YHL SIAYG ava S} 310131430 SIL HOIHM OL LN3ANDOG 3HL G3NDIS OHM TYNGINION! FHL 30 ALUN3O!
: FHL A7NO SFA IUVOLUAGO SIL ONLITANOD YIOUIO YIHLO YO IMGNd AYVION ¥
SZ S202 -yi-38
C fn LN3WSCTWONMOY S,Y3NMO

“GR0VELSY 38 OL ABAUNS SHL SISVNG OL LNZIOLNS 38 TM

—TPa0 Saye 8

ray #5 of aKWN
ua

NOLLVYOdHOO LIJONGNON WINNOAIIVD ¥ ‘dN GVEVHO
SU3NMO SV

¥ NOdN G3SVE Si GNV NOWOSUIG AN Y3GNN YO 3W AS G3YVdaud SYM d¥A SIHL
ANANALVLS S,YOAZAYNS

008 Sun ous isatt Ww 062s
SUINNV1d~SUOAIANNS~SUTINIONI

ozoz isnonv Alva
Peneeeenenes:

vINwosrWo Ae a pohia oa NVS 40 ALD ‘S3S0duNd MIVMSGIS HO4 LNSMGSV3 NV 3SN OMBNd OL 3LVIIGIO ARGH OSV 3M

“SWALSAS NOLLVOINY! ONY SSYMLONULS FOANRS OMENd 1d30X3

¢ ‘ “LN3N3SV3 TVMGOIS GIVS HLM 383204, NI
“1oaeRI0O ATIVOINHOGL SI dVW SILUIVAL GaUSLYS WV | 4ON S300 ‘ORLVM NYS 4O ALIO 3HL AG G3NINMGLId SV “SN HONS G3dAONd .3'S'd.

LNAWALVLS S,YOASANNS ALIO

ALNNOD OALYW NYS JO SGYOOSY TWIOIdd0

“SRY, ‘ST10d ‘SS300V_ADNSO
¥Od “(LN3NGSV3 SOURS ONENd) .
soiass onan “Mod INGWESVa” NY SSN OMGnd. Ol LVOKE AGUS OSV aM

“U3GYO8 JAWONULSIC

“HLM C3MdNOO N36 3AVH AVN 3ALVINAL 3HL NIHLUA NROHS SY NOISIIGENS GNY d¥N GIS JO NOUVGYOIZ ONY

BHL 4O WAOUddY 4O SW SHI LY FIWOMdd¥Y SZONVNIGHO TW907 ANV 30 ONY s
SL33HS Z 40 SNILSISNOD B

HL ATIVILNVISGNS SI NMOHS SV NOISIAIGENS 3HL ‘d¥N 3HL GANINVXS 3AVH |
ANAWALVIS S,YASNIONZ ALIO



--- page 88 ---
@ 40 2 133HS BLL9SIOZ ‘ON 4X8

£ELE1Z-LO0Z
“ON ‘900
W 13 ZLavMHOS ASML SONWd 'd SND ¥E Wd ib Yad ‘Ov. F1aIOF11

‘Sdid NOB! .#/f GNNOS
,00°8S 00°v01 e (4810 107),00°%S & a
ODT M.SLEL.OVN -“ ¢
v. Wasa 23s 30M .0S)

co IRS! 1331s Wa

‘SiN

«0, W130 22. W130 33S
Ss ST] &¢ wd

(0-928) (Nad0) Sdid NOU! .¥/E ones

00°0S
\ BAZ,£7.69N

| Ta0uvd WH'ELS MSLEEOPN ; :
" K° nsiscom [poor t—®

9£0080~610z “ON “900 (asia 107)

Wezar
68.65.0167

wuss |

weve

SONIIV3E 40 SISVE

Wt v@s) LV 981 3,27,00.69N

z

806

& SVN | & SaYN
$ OTE | $ YOO78
£1 | @ SiOT

ESLELI~L661 “ON “900
smu VEVE “4 S3NVP

Ot 87 W.SIEEOMN i

"0008 3.LzGCEIN

SS STI Sf Sow Uad
.2S06) 30%, CadMVIS
OV SSV¥a ONNO4

MSLES.O¥N
9°56

9S STI ¢¢ 43d Viva GYoosY «e(  )
22 STI 6 43d Wivd GuOOsH =2()
SF SAVIN C wad viva GYoosH KK)

S3ONSYSAY

VM SIKL AB CBAONSY 36 OL ANN TaN
@VW SIKL AG GALVOKI3G JNM LN3N3SW3
3NN_ AVM 40 LHOIE YO/ONV JNM 107
4adYOR SAUDNUSIO

ANQN3SW3_ 4 WAGOIS :
ze BLIC01-9661
ANSAGSV] 3983S OMEN ' : “ON “000
«8989 Sl, G3dMVIS “OVL ONY HOWL i OOVUNVYS “G 3N0RINa
‘OMd OUSYId HLM 3did NOU! .¥/f 135)

2-898)
AVRIL BLT ETON

92000-6102 ‘ON “000

3NN3ZAV O19VId 3LNOW

3NN3AV ZANI VINVS LSVa

&% | | e SUNG
$ \ | $s Os
ft 107

d¥M NO GGLON SV “U3NIHS 7 AVN OVW ONNOS
dW NO GRION SY “3did NOU! GNNOS

dVW NO GRLON SV ‘9VL SSW GNNOS 9¥1SZ\—GOOZ “ON “DOO ae “
OT) SALVIOOSSY BARC O3LVN NVS HLYON Sez ‘OLSVL

AS'EBL 3LZ£7Z.69N

QN3931

t

"SST YO 3YON “L334 FYVNDS LeS‘Z5 £68160-6102 “ON “000
40 Y3YV O3043N ¥ SNIVLNOD GNY dV SIHL AG G30WI0ENS ONY) ASML ONVENOL “W HaBSOr
\

BHL 40 AUVONNOS 3HL SRIVSIGN! BNI AGHOR BALONUSIO SHL

“40383HL
STVNIO30 ONY 1334 NI 38V SNOISN3NIG GNV SZONVISIO TV ‘L

SALON

Z14s6 mwas "3S0r KvS ’ GI 30¥d “WO OSL NOS ‘az30 ANVUO waa | sorely
008 ins “a3WU5 1Sald (N OFL1 NY L OLY NYS 30 ALI OL CAAGANOD OL SLCLS MSY, 7S.OPN
SUNNITE-S8OKSANNS SEINIONG OVA SVU ONNOd u(,0-,"4s)
(S3iNVA HLOM) ewe(.ce'ess)
(1331S HLLsND ATEINYOS)

SAIC OSLVIANNVS HLYON ,

SONRIV3B 40 SISVE
M.2- Bl) LUE B27,07.60N

t
4Lb 30Ve WO O64 YOOR

ozoz isnonv ‘avd
Heeeeneneenennenensenensses:
VINYOAMVS ‘ALNNOO OZLWW NYS ‘OALVN NYS 3O ALIO
SHL NIHLIA ATSYLLN3 ONIAT

ALNNOD OALYN NVS 4O SGYOO3Y ‘TWIdlt4O

‘ZS 30Vd LY SdVW NOISINIGENS 40 | OOS NI GINIIY ‘By
30vd LV Sd¥W 40 G 4008 NI 6BBl ‘Zt TWdvY NO GYOO3Y YOd
Gad ‘.VINYOSITVD ‘ALNNOO OSLVW NWS ‘O3LVW NYS 4O NMOL
BHL OL NOWIGGY NYSLS3M 3HL Ni SH9O18 4O SNOISIAIGENS 3HL
4O d¥W. GSULLNS d¥W 3HL NO NMOHS SV ONY ‘940080-6102

MAGWNN LNAWNOOG ‘C330 LNVYO ONUSIA 3HL NI GaedoS3d

S¥ ‘S 40018 Ni 4} LOT JO SNOLLYOd 40 Y3OU3N LOT V

£4 STI Zy SOM wad 7) J
«1022 S1, G3dMVIS
‘Od OUSYId HLM

Bdid NOMI .¥/f ONNOS

“N2aNF AVM 30 THORS TWNIORIO

90¢ 30¥d “W'O SE9 WOOE ‘C30 INYO Bd ]
‘OBLWN NYS 40 ALO OL G3A3ANOO OF

JS

“dV SIHL YO4 SONINVSE 40

SISVG 3HL SV G3SN SVM ‘ALNNOD OSLYW NYS JO SGHOOSY ‘SS 39Vd
LV SdV¥W ST] 4O SE 3WMIOA Ni 600Z ‘Oi LSNONY NO GHOO3Y Os
GF “220% “ON ABANNS 4O GYOO3Y NO NMOHS SV ‘3NN3AV OT8VIC
ALNOW 4O JNM ATYSLSSMHLYON SHL NO ‘,2S06) 30u, GadWW1S ‘SOVL
SS¥¥A SLNSNNNOW GNNOJ OML N3SML38 3,42,£2.60N ONINV3E SHL

SONINW3E 40 SISVa

£1 STI Zh SOU Yad
HOLL ST, G3aNVIS
‘ond OUSYId HLM
did NOU! .7/f ONNOS

£1 ST Zr SOY wad

ONY TWN OVW ONTOS

88 of 386


--- page 89 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 22-6649
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Casanova Park Restroom Remodel – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Newton 
Construction & Management, Inc. to remodel the public restrooms at Casanova Park in the amount of $298,253.22; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $45,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract 
in substantially the form presented and issue change orders or amendments within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Casanova Park public restrooms are due for remodeling. Renovations are needed to replace old infrastructure and 
upgrade the facilities to comply with current accessibility standards required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. In 
2016, the Public Works Facilities Division and the Parks and Recreation Department assessed the restrooms and developed 
a long-term plan for remodeling based on greatest need and available funding. Park restrooms included in Phases 1, 2, and 
3 (Beresford and Los Prados, Martin Luther King Jr., Bayside and Parkside) were remodeled in 2016-2017. The park 
restrooms included in Phase 4 of the remodeling program are located at Indian Springs, Casanova, and Fiesta Meadows 
parks. Phase 5 includes the Shoreview and Lakeshore Parks. 
The construction drawings for the renovation of the Casanova Park restrooms were developed by the Public Works 
Department in coordination with the Parks and Recreation Department. The scope of work includes the construction of 
new walls, doors, an accessible ramp, new fixtures, partitions, flooring, wall finishes, lighting, a drinking fountain, and 
painting. The City’s Building Division approved the construction drawings for a building permit, which was used as the basis 
for development of a fixed-price proposal utilizing a process called “job order contracting” (JOC). The JOC process includes 
a contract for a fixed term or maximum dollar value in which a contractor is selected based on a competitive bid to 
perform various and separate job orders in the future, during the life of the contract. The JOC contract serves as an "on 
call" contracting program that is procured through one umbrella or framework contract. The contract is competitively 
procured at the onset of the program using a unit price book (UPB), unit price list construction catalog, or custom list of 
construction prices as a basis for pricing in the procurement process. Each individual job order is then priced from that UPB 
and allows for rapid deployment of projects with a transparent pricing mechanism. 
The JOC process is a competitive procurement method for construction services approved by the City Council by resolution 
on March 18, 2019, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), which permits the use of procedures 
approved by the Council that are not set forth in the purchasing ordinance. Specifically, this process involves the 
development of a detailed project list, establishment of a firm price using a unit price book, and the selection of a pre-
qualified construction contractor upon the City’s authorization to proceed, all by the JOC contractor.
In this case, a multi-step process was used to tentatively select Newton Construction & Management, Inc. to perform the 
89 of 386

--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
restroom remodeling work, subject to Council approval. First, Sourcewell (formerly known as the National Joint Powers 
Alliance or NJPA) conducted a competitive proposal process to select The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement JOC 
on behalf of Sourcewell member agencies. Second, Gordian competitively bids and administers the JOC process with the 
use of Gordian’s unit pricing that will provide the best price to the City. This allows the City to complete required public 
improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids 
through a project-specific competitive bidding process. Here, Gordian used the JOC process to select Newton Construction 
& Management, Inc., the low bidder and pre-qualified contractor selected to construct the restroom project.
With contract approval, the procurement of materials would begin in November 2022 with construction in the spring of 
2023 and completion before the end of 2023. Based on the above, staff recommends award of the contract to Newton 
Construction & Management, Inc. due to their experience and availability to perform construction services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in the Park Restroom Refurbishment Phase IV Project (46F002) for the construction 
contract and contingency. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
90 of 386

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO 
NEWTON CONSTRUCTION & MANAGEMENT, INC. FOR THE CASANOVA PARK RESTROOM REMODEL 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is
in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA) has conducted competitive bidding processes to select 
Gordian, Inc. (Gordian) to implement Job Order Contracting on behalf of their member agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Job Order Contracting process allows for an umbrella construction contract to cover 
various and separate job orders during the life of the contract, and is beneficial for renovation, remodeling, or 
alterations where many small project tasks will arise, but the timing, type, and quantity of work are unknown; 
and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell and Gordian have conducted competitive bidding to select contractors to perform 
Job Order Contracting based on Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, use of Gordian’s Unit Price Book and contract provides a competitive price to the City and 
allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project 
specifications or solicit bids for each minor project task; and
WHEREAS, the City approved the Job Order Contracting as a competitive procurement method for 
construction services by resolution on March 18, 2019 upon findings that the Job Order Contracting process with 
Gordian is in the best interests of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Casanova Park Restroom Remodel project is designed and documented to be priced 
using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, Newton Construction & Management, Inc. was selected based on their experience and 
availability to perform construction services using the Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff has determined that this is the best price available 
because companies have submitted competitive bids. 
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
91 of 386

--- page 92 ---
1.
The Casanova Park Restroom Remodel project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing 
facility” in that it consists of the renovation of an existing public structure involving negligible or no 
expansion of former or existing use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
The Job Order Contracting process, as approved by City Council on March 18, 2019, utilizing Gordian’s 
contract and Unit Price Book to award a construction contract to Newton Construction & 
Management, Inc. is in the best interests of the City because it offers the best price to the City and 
allows the City to complete the remodel of the restrooms at Casanova Park efficiently by eliminating 
the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids through a project-
specific competitive bidding process.
3.
A construction contract is approved in the amount of $298,253.22 to Newton Construction & 
Management, Inc. for the Casanova Park Restroom Remodel project. 
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the contract on behalf of the City and issue 
change orders and amendments within the contingency amount of $45,000.
92 of 386

--- page 93 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 1 of 26 
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION 
This Contract is by and between. 
OWNER 
CONTRACTOR 
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Newton Construction & 
Management, Inc. 
2436 Broad Street  
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401 
 
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK 
1.01 
Work 
A. 
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents. 
B. 
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows: 
1. 
Casanova Park Restroom Remodel which includes site barriers; demolition and 
disposal; framing; plumbing; electrical; mechanical; new fixtures; new accessories; 
wall tile; flooring; painting; inspection; testing and closeout. 
2. 
The Site of the Work includes designated work areas described in greater detail in the 
Contract Documents but generally located at 4012 Casanova Drive, San Mateo, 
California. 
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY 
2.01 
Defined Terms 
A. 
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms. 
1. 
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
93 of 386

--- page 94 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 2 of 26 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material. 
2. 
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition. 
3. 
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is: 
a. 
Steve Wu, City of San Mateo 
2.02 
Terminology 
A. 
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning. 
B. 
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives: 
1. 
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents. 
C. 
Day: 
1. 
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight. 
D. 
Defective: 
1. 
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it: 
a. 
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or 
b. 
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or 
c. 
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion. 
94 of 386

--- page 95 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 3 of 26 
E. 
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide: 
1. 
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition. 
2. 
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
3. 
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
4. 
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use. 
F. 
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning. 
2.03 
Contract Documents Defined 
A. 
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents: 
1. 
This Contract. 
2. 
Performance bond. 
3. 
Payment bond. 
4. 
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows): 
a. 
Exhibit A - Contractor’s Proposal 
b. 
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts. 
5. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
6. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task Catalog. 
7. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
8. 
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract: 
a. 
Work Change Directives. 
b. 
Change Orders. 
c. 
Field Orders. 
95 of 386

--- page 96 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 4 of 26 
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
3.01 
Intent of Contract Documents 
A. 
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents. 
B. 
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder. 
C. 
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents. 
D. 
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants. 
3.02 
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies 
A. 
Reporting Discrepancies: 
1. 
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01. 
3. 
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof. 
96 of 386

--- page 97 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 5 of 26 
B. 
Resolving Discrepancies: 
1. 
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and: 
a. 
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or 
b. 
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
2. 
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail. 
3. 
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence:  
a. 
Change Order. 
b. 
Addenda. 
c. 
Contract. 
d. 
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
e. 
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
f. 
Owner Standard Specifications. 
g. 
Owner Standard Drawings. 
h. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
i. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
j. 
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document). 
k. 
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
l. 
Notice to Bidder. 
m. Instruction to Bidder. 
97 of 386

--- page 98 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 6 of 26 
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES 
4.01 
Contract Times 
A. 
The Work will be substantially completed within 365 days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract and completed and ready for final payment within 395 days after the Effective Date 
of the Contract. 
4.02 
Liquidated Damages 
A. 
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion. 
4.03 
Delays in Contractor’s Progress 
A. 
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times. 
B. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers. 
C. 
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times. 
D. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers. 
4.04 
Progress Schedules 
A. 
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR. 
B. 
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule. 
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE 
5.01 
Payment 
A. 
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of $298,253.22 for all Work. 
98 of 386

--- page 99 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 7 of 26 
B. 
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR. 
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE 
6.01 
Bonds 
A. 
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due. 
B. 
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore 
6.02 
Insurance 
A. 
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B. 
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
7.01 
Supervision and Superintendence 
A. 
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction. 
B. 
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances. 
C. 
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site. 
99 of 386

--- page 100 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 8 of 26 
D. 
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday. 
7.02 
Other Work at the Site 
A. 
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site. 
7.03 
Services, Materials, and Equipment 
A. 
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents. 
B. 
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.04 
Subcontractors and Suppliers 
A. 
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7.  
7.05 
Quality Management 
A. 
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents. 
7.06 
Licenses, Fees and Permits 
A. 
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others. 
B. 
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.07 
Laws and Regulations; Taxes 
A. 
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations. 
B. 
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
100 of 386

--- page 101 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 9 of 26 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations. 
C. 
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations. 
D. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties.  
E. 
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.   
F. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.   
G. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced. 
H. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.   
I. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.   
J. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.   
101 of 386

--- page 102 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 10 of 26 
K. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.   
L. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.   
M. In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.   
N. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.   
7.08 
Record Documents 
A. 
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work. 
7.09 
Safety and Protection 
A. 
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work. 
B. 
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to: 
1. 
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work; 
2. 
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and 
3. 
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction. 
C. 
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor). 
D. 
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations. 
E. 
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
102 of 386

--- page 103 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 11 of 26 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued. 
7.10 
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals 
A. 
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information. 
B. 
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal. 
C. 
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents. 
D. 
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples. 
E. 
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs. 
F. 
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions. 
G. 
Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals. 
H. 
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents. 
7.11 
Warranties and Guarantees 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee. 
7.12 
Correction Period 
A. 
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work. 
7.13 
Indemnification 
A. 
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
103 of 386

--- page 104 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 12 of 26 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the 
Owner 
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
8.01 
Owner’s Responsibilities 
A. 
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR. 
B. 
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract. 
C. 
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project. 
D. 
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination. 
E. 
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes. 
F. 
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
G. 
While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed. 
H. 
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor. 
I. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract.  
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION 
9.01 
RPR’s Status 
A. 
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract. 
B. 
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them. 
C. 
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work. 
104 of 386

--- page 105 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 13 of 26 
D. 
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents. 
E. 
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work. 
F. 
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK 
10.01 Authority to Change the Work 
A. 
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work. 
10.02 Change Orders 
A. 
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering: 
1. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive; 
2. 
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and 
3. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12. 
B. 
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change. 
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS 
11.01 Differing Conditions Process 
A. 
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
105 of 386

--- page 106 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 14 of 26 
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so. 
B. 
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly: 
1. 
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question; 
2. 
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition; 
3. 
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein; 
4. 
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor; 
5. 
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and 
6. 
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations. 
C. 
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part. 
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
12.01 Claims Process 
A. 
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto. 
B. 
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party. 
C. 
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied. 
D. 
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process. 
12.02 Mediation 
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
106 of 386

--- page 107 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 15 of 26 
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties. 
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK 
13.01 Tests and Inspections 
A. 
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access. 
B. 
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests. 
C. 
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense. 
13.02 Defective Work 
A. 
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective. 
B. 
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work. 
C. 
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor. 
D. 
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work. 
E. 
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work. 
F. 
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated. 
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR 
14.01 Progress Payments 
A. 
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress. 
14.02 Applications for Payments: 
A. 
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
107 of 386

--- page 108 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 16 of 26 
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment. 
B. 
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment. 
14.03 Retainage 
A. 
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete. 
14.04 Review of Applications 
A. 
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment. 
B. 
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement. 
C. 
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work. 
14.05 Contractor’s Warranty of Title 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner. 
14.06 Substantial Completion 
A. 
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
B. 
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor. 
C. 
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
108 of 386

--- page 109 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 17 of 26 
14.07 Final Inspection 
A. 
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies. 
14.08 Final Payment 
A. 
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents. 
B. 
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by: 
1. 
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents; 
2. 
Consent of the surety to final payment; 
3. 
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment; 
4. 
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and 
5. 
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work. 
C. 
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment. 
14.09 Waiver of Claims 
A. 
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor. 
B. 
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted. 
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION 
15.01 Owner May Suspend Work 
A. 
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension. 
15.02 Owner May Terminate for Cause 
A. 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause. 
109 of 386

--- page 110 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 18 of 26 
B. 
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to: 
1. 
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and 
2. 
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond. 
C. 
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure. 
D. 
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient. 
E. 
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner. 
15.03 Owner May Terminate for Convenience 
A. 
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items: 
1. 
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work; 
2. 
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and 
3. 
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal. 
B. 
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination. 
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS 
16.01 Contractor Representations 
A. 
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract: 
1. 
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
110 of 386

--- page 111 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 19 of 26 
3. 
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
4. 
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on: 
a. 
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work; 
b. 
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and 
c. 
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs. 
5. 
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract. 
6. 
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents. 
7. 
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor. 
8. 
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work. 
9. 
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS 
17.01 Cumulative Remedies 
A. 
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply. 
17.02 Limitation of Damages 
A. 
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project. 
111 of 386

--- page 112 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 20 of 26 
17.03 No Waiver 
A. 
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract. 
17.04 Survival of Obligations 
A. 
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor. 
17.05 Contractor’s Certifications 
A. 
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. 
17.06 Controlling Law and Venue 
A. 
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
17.07 Notices 
A. 
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract. 
17.08 No Partnership or Agency 
A. 
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.  
17.09 Severability 
A. 
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.  
17.10 Waiver 
A. 
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives.  
112 of 386

--- page 113 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 21 of 26 
17.11 Warranty 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract. 
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract). 
OWNER: 
 CONTRACTOR: 
 
 
 
By: 
Azalea Mitch 
 By: 
Eric Newton 
Title: 
Director of Public Works 
 Title: 
President 
 
 
 
 
Address for giving notices: 
 Address for giving notices: 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
2436 Broad Street 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401 
 
 
 
 
 License No.: 
CA License # 783608 
 
 
 
(where applicable) 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
113 of 386

--- page 114 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONTRACTOR’S PROPOSAL 
 
  
 
 
114 of 386

--- page 115 ---
Work Order Signature Document
EZIQC Contract No.:  CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
New Work Order
105276.00
Modify an Existing Work Order
Work Order Title: 
Work Order Number.:
Work Order Date:
X
08/24/2022
Contractor Name:
Contact:
Phone:
Contact:
Phone:
Darin Terrazas
805-544-5583
Owner Name:
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Steve Wu
(650)8238331
Newton Construction & Management
Work to be Performed
Work to be performed as per the Final Detailed Scope of Work Attached and as per the terms and conditions of 
Sourcewell EZIQC Contract No CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM. 
Brief Work Order Description:
Park restroom remodel
Will not apply:
Liquidated Damages
Will apply:
Estimated Completion Date:  
Estimated Start Date:  
Time of Performance
X
Work Order Firm Fixed Price: $298,253.22
Owner Purchase Order Number:  
Approvals
Date
Date
Contractor
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
 2.00
Page 1 of 1
8/24/2022
Work Order Signature Document
115 of 386

--- page 116 ---
3.00
Detailed Scope of Work
Steve Wu
Darin Terrazas
To:
From:
Newton Construction & Management
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
2436 Broad St
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401
San Mateo, CA 94403
805-544-5583
(650)8238331
Work Order Number:
August 24, 2022
Date Printed: 
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Work Order Title:
Brief Scope:
Park restroom remodel
Revised
Final
Preliminary
X
The following items detail the scope of work as discussed at the site. All requirements necessary to accomplish the items 
set forth below shall be considered part of this scope of work.
DETAILED SCOPE OF WORK
REVISED ON 08/22/2022
Project Name: Casanova Park Restroom Maintenance
Project City Job Number: 469030
Owner: City of San Mateo, Public Works Department
Site Address: 4012 Casanova Drive San Mateo, CA 94403
1. Description The City of San Mateo Public Works Department Facilities Division has issued plan check delta 1 
drawings, dated 05/31/2022, for the renovation of the existing Men’s & Women’s Restroom located at 4012 
Casanova Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403.
2. Trades Trades will include plumbing, bathroom accessories, glazing, doors, frames, hardware, electrical, painting, 
flooring.
3. Scope of Work The City of San Mateo Public Works Department has requested the contractor to provide 
temporary chain link fencing around perimeter of building prior to demolition work to restrict public access into the 
construction area for public safety concerns. A temporary gate will be installed and used by workers to control access 
into the area.
The Scope of Work includes:
Plumbing:
• Remove all plumbing fixtures.
• Remove existing exterior drinking fountain.
• New cast concrete sink on metal pedestal.
o New custom bases for new sinks, as requested by owner to support the new cast concrete sink. The sink will be 
supported by a custom metal frame Manufacturer by Fine Steel Products, San Jose, CA.
o New custom cast ramp sink and counter Manufactured by Sonoma Cast Stone. 40" Wide x 22" Deep x 2" Thick 
"Earthcrete". Finish: "Nucrete Format". Refer to page 2 Plumbing Fixture schedule, note 2.
• New toilets & wall cleanout.
• New urinal.
Page 1 of 3
8/24/2022
Scope of Work
116 of 386

--- page 117 ---
Detailed Scope of Work Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
• New fixtures, coordinate with electrical subcontractor to provide power as required.
o Electronic/infrared combination soap dispensers/faucets. o Electronic/infrared flush valves.
o Electronic accessible drinking fountain and bottle filler.
• New drinking fountain and grab bars. Refer to delta 1 revision plan check notes in drawings on sheet 3 of 4.
• Verify rim elevation of drains, adjust as needed. Coordinate with flooring subcontractor.
Bathroom Accessories:
• Remove all toilet partitions.
• Remove all accessories.
• New wainscot finish: Neolith, Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels ¼" in thickness and are available in 126"x 60" in 
size and are to be cut to a size of 48"x 48", up 8'-0” high.
• New toilet partitions and hardware as noted in the delta 1 revisions on sheet 3 of 4.
• New accessories. o Includes Bradley Hand Dryer: Fixed, Epoxy Steel, Auto, White, ADA Compliant, refer to 
Accessories Schedule on sheet 3 of 4.
• New rails at drinking fountain.
• New cover plates at C.M.U. lower openings, (6) six qty.
• Ceiling and walls for new finishes.
Glazing:
• Repair damaged section of obscure glass on exterior north wall (refer to jpg image). Doors, Frames, Hardware, and 
Restroom
Signage:
• Remove door & jamb accessibility signage.
• New doors, frames, and hardware. Coordinate with electrical subcontractor.
• Install new signage at both restrooms that includes tactile visual signage and visual signage at each restroom as 
shown sheets 3 and 4 of the drawings.
Electrical:
• Remove ceiling & wall mounted light fixtures.
• Remove lock timers at doors & associated wiring & conduit.
• New vandal resistant LED ceiling & wall mounted light fixture and wiring.
• New astronomic lighting timer.
• Install new electrical for door hardware for new power actuated doors at both restrooms, coordinate with electrical 
subcontractor.
• Install new electrical for plumbing fixtures, coordinate with plumbing subcontractor.
• Electrical Notes:
o 1. Re-connect light controls to Cal-Sense System, verify with city representative.
o 2. Reuse (E) circuits for new door electronic door strikes.
o 3. Provide new circuits as needed for new electrical to plumbing fixtures and accessories.
o 4. Provide motion sensors for interior lights.
o 5. Exterior lights provide photocell.
o 6. Install ceiling mounted Harris LED 2’x4’ light fixtures.
o 7. Install wall mounted Harris LED light fixtures.
Page 2 of 3
8/24/2022
Scope of Work
117 of 386

--- page 118 ---
Detailed Scope of Work Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Painting:
• Pressure wash exterior.
• Primer (1) one coat and paint (2) two coats interior and exterior.
• Exterior wood trim, eaves, facia, and siding:
o 1 coat: Primer KM 295 Kel Bond Universal Primer.
o 2 coats: KM 1245 Acryshield 100 % Acrylic Low Sheen.
• Interior wood:
o 1 coat: KM 295 Kel-Bond Universal Primer.
Epoxy Flooring:
• Apply epoxy flooring trowel applied mortar to slope concrete floor to meet ADA requirements, coordinate with 
plumbing subcontractor.
• Prepare floor for new resinous poured finish.
• New floor and curb finish.
Exclusions:
• Environmental survey, including sampling and laboratory analysis.
• Abatement of any kind, including lead and asbestos.
Subject to the terms and conditions of EZIQC Contract CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM.
Contractor
Date
Date
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Page 3 of 3
8/24/2022
Scope of Work
118 of 386

--- page 119 ---
4.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
Owner PO #:
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
105276.00
CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Title:
Re:
August 24, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management
$298,253.22
$17,632.03
Section - 01
$5,305.95
Section - 02
$7,485.57
Section - 03
$3,988.35
Section - 04
$15,631.24
Section - 08
$164,303.94
Section - 09
$21,880.96
Section - 10
$4,406.02
Section - 12
$46,978.73
Section - 22
$477.59
Section - 23
$9,163.63
Section - 26
$999.21
Section - 27
Proposal Total
Thisl total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$298,253.22
The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal:
%
Page 1 of 1
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
119 of 386

--- page 120 ---
5.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
105276.00
CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
August 24, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management
$298,253.22
(Excludes)
Equip.
Material
Labor
Line Total
Description
UOM
Mod.
Item
Sect.
Section - 01
01  22   16   00 0002
Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible 
costs as directed by Owner.  Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the 
base cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable 
Fees, list each one separately and add a comment in the "note" block to 
identify the Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various 
permits, extended warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each 
receipt shall be submitted with the Price Proposal.
1
$6,420.33
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 6,420.33
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.00
 1.1000
 5,836.66
2% Bond fee.
01  22   20   00 0023
LaborerFor tasks not included in the Construction Task Catalog® and as 
directed by owner only.
2
$522.59
HR
Installation
=
x
x
 522.59
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 75.41
 1.1550
 6.00
Stand-by time for epoxy floor installer, 3 hours for men's room and 3 hours for women's restrooms, for 
curing time between coats.
01  22   23   00 0680
20 KW, 60 Hertz Towable Diesel Powered Generator SetFuel consumption: 
100% load – 1.6 gallons per hour, 75% load - 1.3 gallons per hour, 50% load - 
0.9 gallons per hour.
3
$930.70
DAY
Installation
=
x
x
 930.70
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 201.45
 1.1550
 4.00
Epoxy flooring subcontractor will need 470v to operate equipment.  Two days per restroom.
01  22   23   00 0781
#1 Banded Cable, 50' With Camlock Ends For Generator Set
4
$440.01
DAY
Installation
=
x
x
 440.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 23.81
 1.1550
 16.00
4 cables for 4 days each, 16.
01  22   23   00 0887
5,000 PSI Pressure Washer With Full-Time Operator
5
$914.12
DAY
Installation
=
x
x
 914.12
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 791.45
 1.1550
 1.00
Pressure wash interior concrete floor to prepare for new epoxy coating.
01  22   23   00 0887
5,000 PSI Pressure Washer With Full-Time Operator
6
$914.12
DAY
Installation
=
x
x
 914.12
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 791.45
 1.1550
 1.00
Pressure wash building prior to painting.
01  31   33   00 0004
Cement Mason Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction 
with any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner.  
Task quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
7
$821.98
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 821.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 711.67
 1.1550
 1.00
Install C.M.U. and cap to match existing wainscot. See Detail 5, Sheet 4 of 4.
Page 1 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
120 of 386

--- page 121 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 01
01  31   33   00 0008
Glazier Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction with any 
other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner.  Task quantity 
is 1, unless approved by owner.
8
$1,725.85
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,725.85
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 747.12
 1.1550
 2.00
Obscure glass replacement.  One site visit to demolish glass block from the exterior walls and to measure 
the opening and place the order.  Second site visit will be to install the new glass block.
01  56   26   00 0005
Temporary 6' High Chain Link Fence And Posts, Up To 6 Months
9
$1,240.01
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,240.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.71
 1.1550
 160.00
Requested by owner.  Provide temporary chain link fencing around perimeter of building prior to demolition 
work and restrict public access into the construction area for public safety concerns.
01  56   26   00 0005
0053
For >100 To 250, Deduct
10
-$31.42
Installation
=
x
x
-31.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
-0.17
 1.1550
 160.00
01  56   26   00 0005
0057
For Each LF Shade Cloth, Add
11
$471.24
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 471.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.55
 1.1550
 160.00
01  56   26   00 0034
10' Wide, 6' High, Temporary Chain Link Fence Gate, Up To 6 Months
12
$520.35
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 520.35
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 450.52
 1.1550
 1.00
Requested by owner.  Gate access into the work area.
01  56   26   00 0158
Temporary Chain Link Fence Panels (Portable) SandbagIncludes placement 
and removal.
13
$167.43
BAG
Installation
=
x
x
 167.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.04
 1.1550
 24.00
Requested by owner.
01  71   13   00 0002
First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization 
Using A Rollback Flatbed TruckIncludes loading, tie-down of equipment, 
delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling, loading for 
return and transporting away. For equipment such as trenchers, skid-steer 
loaders (bobcats), industrial warehouse forklifts, sweepers, scissor platform 
lifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with up to 40' boom lengths, 
etc.
14
$319.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 319.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 276.40
 1.1550
 1.00
Delivery of pressure washer for painting subcontractor.
01  71   13   00 0002
First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization 
Using A Rollback Flatbed TruckIncludes loading, tie-down of equipment, 
delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling, loading for 
return and transporting away. For equipment such as trenchers, skid-steer 
loaders (bobcats), industrial warehouse forklifts, sweepers, scissor platform 
lifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with up to 40' boom lengths, 
etc.
15
$319.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 319.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 276.40
 1.1550
 1.00
Temp generator.
Page 2 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
121 of 386

--- page 122 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 01
01  71   13   00 0002
First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization 
Using A Rollback Flatbed TruckIncludes loading, tie-down of equipment, 
delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling, loading for 
return and transporting away. For equipment such as trenchers, skid-steer 
loaders (bobcats), industrial warehouse forklifts, sweepers, scissor platform 
lifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with up to 40' boom lengths, 
etc.
16
$319.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 319.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 276.40
 1.1550
 1.00
Delivery of pressure washer for flooring subcontractor.
01  74   19   00 0014
20 CY Dumpster (3 Ton) "Construction Debris"Includes delivery of dumpster, 
rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Non-hazardous material.
17
$1,617.00
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,617.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 700.00
 1.1550
 2.00
For disposal of demolition debris and construction debris generator during construction work.
$17,632.03
Subtotal for Section - 01
Section - 02
02  41   16   13 0003
Up To 2,000 SF Commercial Building Interior Demolition, Gutting And Placing 
Into Dumpster Or Truck
18
$3,120.12
GSF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,120.12
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10.39
 1.1550
 260.00
Demo/Removal of all existing partitions, equipment, sinks, toilets, urinals, and accessories.
02  41   19   13 0039
Exterior Brick, Concrete Block Or Composite Removal
19
$230.45
CF
Installation
=
x
x
 230.45
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.47
 1.1550
 16.00
Wainscot Demo.
02  41   19   13 0071
Saw Cut Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total saw cutting charge is 
less than the minimum charge, use this task exclusively. This task should not 
be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.
20
$1,082.75
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,082.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 937.45
 1.1550
 1.00
Wainscot Demo.
02  41   19   13 0333
Core Drill Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total core drilling charge is 
less than the minimum charge, use task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" 
exclusively. Task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" should not be used in 
conjunction with any other tasks in this section. Does not apply to sections 
"Drilling In Concrete Per Inch Of Depth" or "Drilling In Brick Or Block Per Inch Of 
Depth".
21
$872.63
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 872.63
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 755.52
 1.1550
 1.00
New plumbing through concrete block.
$5,305.95
Subtotal for Section - 02
Section - 03
03  35   43   00 0002
Mechanically Grind Concrete Floor With 40 Grit Metal Bonded Diamond Wheels
22
$618.50
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 618.50
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.75
 1.1550
 306.00
Surface Preparation for new epoxy flooring.
Page 3 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
122 of 386

--- page 123 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 03
03  35   43   00 0002
0061
For Up To 500, Add
23
$1,173.39
Installation
=
x
x
 1,173.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.32
 1.1550
 306.00
03  35   83   00 0006
Bush Hammer Cured Concrete, New Concrete Wall Finishes
24
$2,306.30
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,306.30
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 7.68
 1.1550
 260.00
03  35   83   00 0006
0051
For >250 To 500, Add
25
$570.57
Installation
=
x
x
 570.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.90
 1.1550
 260.00
03  54   16   00 0008
1" Thick Self Leveling Cementitious Underlayment For FloorsIncluding Surface 
Preparation
26
$2,816.81
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,816.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 9.38
 1.1550
 260.00
$7,485.57
Subtotal for Section - 03
Section - 04
04  01   20   51 0002
Grind Smooth Masonry Wall
27
$3,223.65
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,223.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.56
 1.1550
 784.00
Prepare wall areas for new Neolith panels.
04  23   13   00 0007
4" x 8" x 3" Solid Glass Block (Vistabrik®)
28
$764.70
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 764.70
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 331.04
 1.1550
 2.00
$3,988.35
Subtotal for Section - 04
Section - 08
08  12   13   13 0074
3' x 6'-8" Through 7'-2" High, 6-3/4" Deep, 16 Gauge, Knock Down Hollow 
Metal Door Frame
29
$1,475.03
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,230.08
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 532.50
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 244.95
 106.04
 1.1550
 2.00
08  12   13   13 0074
0074
For Welded Frames, Add
30
$196.60
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 196.60
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 85.11
 1.1550
 2.00
08  13   13   13 0049
3' x 7' x 1-3/4", 18 Gauge, Level 2 Heavy Duty, Honeycomb Core, Hollow 
Metal Door
31
$2,095.42
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,948.46
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 843.49
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 146.96
 63.62
 1.1550
 2.00
08  16   13   00 0108
Factory Installed Molded Louver With Insect Screen (Skule Door)
32
$665.28
SI
Installation
=
x
x
 665.28
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.75
 1.1550
 768.00
Replace rodent screens. 8" x 16" = 128" x 6 screens = 768 Square inches.
08  71   11   00 0021
5" x 4" Standard Duty, Half Surface, Ball Bearing, Brass/Bronze, Satin 
Chrome Finish Hinge
33
$375.68
PR
Installation
=
x
x
 343.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 148.84
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 31.85
 13.79
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified Hardware: 3 Hinge MPB99 4-1/2" X 4-1/2" NRP 32D/630 McKinney.
Page 4 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
123 of 386

--- page 124 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 08
08  71   11   00 0618
Heavy Duty, Surface Mounted, Dark Bronze Finish, Overhead Door 
Holder/Stop (Glynn Johnson 90)
34
$1,144.70
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,083.46
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 469.03
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 61.24
 26.51
 1.1550
 2.00
08  71   11   00 0790
Latch Protector
35
$94.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 70.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 30.40
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 24.51
 10.61
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified Hardware:  Latch Protector 320-RKW 630 Rockwood
08  71   11   00 2094
8" x 16", Satin Finish, Stainless Steel Push Plate Door Hardware
36
$114.81
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 114.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 49.70
 1.1550
 2.00
08  71   11   00 2117
Anti-Vandal Pull With Astragal (Trimco 1096HA)
37
$516.49
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 516.49
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 223.59
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified Hardware, Exterior Side: Arm Pull AP1007 630 Rockwood
08  71   11   00 2203
Jamb Mounted Concealed Electric Power Transfer (Von Duprin EPT-10)
38
$1,343.15
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,343.15
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 581.45
 1.1550
 2.00
08  71   11   00 2270
Surface Mounted Heavy Duty Door Closer (LCN 4040XP/4041 Series)
39
$1,202.17
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,131.14
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 489.67
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 71.03
 30.75
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified Door Hardware: Door Closer 1431 O XP9 626 Sargent.
08  71   11   00 2270
0250
For AVB (5 LB Per Push), Add
40
$15.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 15.25
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.60
 1.1550
 2.00
08  71   11   00 2270
0480
For Stainless Steel Finish, Add
41
$334.95
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 334.95
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 145.00
 1.1550
 2.00
08  71   11   00 2322
Extra Heavy Duty Cylindrical, F86 Storeroom Or Closet LocksetSatin chrome 
plated US26D (BHMA 626) - BHMA 156.2-1989, Grade 1(Corbin Russwin CL 
3300).
42
$1,107.78
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,107.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 479.56
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified door hardware: Lockset ND96PD X RHO Lever Storeroom Function with Vandlgard 626 Schlage.
08  71   11   00 2465
Double Cylinder Deadbolt, Key Both SidesCylindrical, ANSI Grade 1, 
interchangeable core, bright brass or satin chromium finish.
43
$407.16
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 407.16
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 176.26
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified door hardware: Schlage B662P Double Cylinder Deadbolt Lock Grade 1.
08  71   11   00 2493
24 Volt DC, Fail Secure, Dual Monitor Switch, Stainless Steel Body Electric 
Strike (Von Duprin 6215)For mortise or cylindrical locks
44
$2,099.88
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,099.88
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 909.04
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified door hardware.  Power supply module will be connected to the electric strike, electric strike 
6211-Us32d-Fse-24vdc Us 32d Von Duprin.
Page 5 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
124 of 386

--- page 125 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 08
08  71   11   00 2511
3 Amperes At 12 Volt DC, 2 Amperes At 24 Volt DC, Door Hardware Power 
Supply
45
$1,321.02
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,321.02
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 571.87
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified door hardware: Power Supply PS 902 Schlage.  Power supply module will be connected to the 
electric strike and will be operated by the existing “Cal Sense” system in the utility room.
08  71   11   00 2519
45" Long, 1/4" Flexible Aluminum Conduit, Armored Power Transfer Door Loop
46
$241.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 241.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 104.41
 1.1550
 2.00
This will be installed inside the jamb and will provide the electrical power from the power supply to the 
electric strike.
08  71   11   00 2556
2 Amperes Output Current, 12-24 Volt DC, 4 Relay with Fire Alarm (Schlage 
PS902)
47
$879.95
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 879.95
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 380.93
 1.1550
 2.00
Specified door hardware.  A low voltage relay will be used with the power supply to send a signal to the 
electric strike operated by the Cal Sense timer.
$15,631.24
Subtotal for Section - 08
Section - 09
09  35   13   00 0002
Thin Set - Epoxy MortarImpact and chemical resistant.
48
$4,874.65
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 4,874.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.84
 1.1550
 872.00
Install at wall area for new Neolith panels, 109 LF x 8' high = 872 SF.
09  67   23   00 0009
3/8" Chemical Resistant (10,000 To 12,000 PSI) Epoxy Flooring Trowel Applied 
Mortar CompoundIncludes primer, two 3/16" slurry coats and top seal coats 
(color).
49
$8,450.51
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 8,450.51
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 23.91
 1.1550
 306.00
Each restroom is 13'x10' = 130 SF of Floor Space.
     • 130 SF x 2 = Total of 260 SF Floor Space.
     • Two 3/16” coats = 3/8” thickness covering 260 SF.
     • Estimated 87 LF of interior walls, cove up w wall 3”.
     • 3” of coving is estimated at 22 SF.
     • 260 SF + 22 SF = 282 SF.
     • Estimated an additional 12 SF per room of mortar compound for sloping to meet ADA requirements, 12 
SF + 12 SF = 24 SF.
     • 282 SF + 24 SF = 306 SF.
09  67   23   00 0009
0160
For Skid Resistant, Orange Peel Texture, Non-Abrasive Topping, Add
50
$49.48
Installation
=
x
x
 49.48
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.14
 1.1550
 306.00
09  67   23   00 0009
0161
For Up To 500, Add
51
$1,745.94
Installation
=
x
x
 1,745.94
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.94
 1.1550
 306.00
Page 6 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
125 of 386

--- page 126 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 09
09  78   23   00 0129
1/4" Thick, Group D, 4' x 10' Varia Ecoresin Panel
52
$128,479.38
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 128,479.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3,972.77
 1.1550
 28.00
Wall Wainscot: Sheet 2 of 4 under Specifications.  Manufacturer:  Neolith. Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile 
panels and are available in 1/4" or 1/2" thickness and 126"x60" in size. Wall panels are to be cut to a size of 
48" x 48", up 8'-0” high. 100% Natural minerals composition. Neolith to be installed by manufacturer approved 
contractor per manufacturer's recommendations. Prepare painted C.M.U. as needed for thinset of Neolith.  
Total Lengths of Interior Restroom Walls: [13+13+13+13] + [10.5+10.5] + [5.5+5.5+1] + [5+5] + [6+6] + [1] + [1] 
+ [1] = 109 LF.  
109 LF ÷ 4 FT High Panels = Panels 
Estimated Total Number of Neolith Panels = 28 qty.
https://www.neolith.com/us/collections/classtone/estatuario-e05-e05r/
09  78   23   00 0199
Laser Cutting Set Up On 4' x 10' PanelsPolished Cut Edge
53
$316.34
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 316.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 273.89
 1.1550
 1.00
The Neolith panels sizes are not available in the standard size of 8'-0" x 4'-0" and in order to meet the project 
specifications the panel available only in a size of 126" x 60".
09  78   23   00 0200
Laser Cutting
54
$10,823.07
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 10,823.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 18.09
 1.1550
 518.00
Manufacturer:  Neolith, 
     • Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels and are available in ¼” or ½” thickness, ¼” is used for pricing.
     • Based on the information on their website, the Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels are only available in 
126" x 60" size.  
     • 28 panels will need a total of three cuts, two 4’ cuts and one 10.5’ cut. 
     • Calculation:  4’+ 4’+ 10.5’ = 18.5 SF per panel.  
     • 18.5’ x 28 panels = Total of 518 SF.
     • Estimated Total Quantity, 518 SF.
09  78   23   00 0276
Edge Sealing On <1/2" Thick Panels
55
$2,146.22
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,146.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 8.15
 1.1550
 228.00
Sealing at exposed edges of Neolith Panels.
09  91   13   00 0004
1 Coat Filler, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Brick Walls
56
$881.31
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 881.31
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.76
 1.1550
 1,004.00
Paint exterior of building, block walls, and paint privacy walls.  EXTERIOR CMU
1 COAT: PRIME WITH KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER.
09  91   13   00 0006
2 Coats Paint, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Brick Walls
57
$1,832.20
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,832.20
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.58
 1.1550
 1,004.00
Paint exterior of building, block walls, and paint privacy walls. EXTERIOR CMU: 2 COATS OF KM 1245 
ACRYSHIELD 100% ACRYLIC LOW SHEEN
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING.
09  91   13   00 0114
1 Coat Primer, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Wood Rough (Shingles, Shakes Or 
Rough Sawn) Siding
58
$213.68
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 213.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.25
 1.1550
 148.00
Primer of eves is considered the as part of the exterior and is included in the scope of work per the Project 
Description on Sheet 1 of 4.
Page 7 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
126 of 386

--- page 127 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 09
09  91   13   00 0114
0202
For >100 To 250, Add
59
$64.96
Installation
=
x
x
 64.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.38
 1.1550
 148.00
09  91   13   00 0116
2 Coats Paint, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Wood Rough (Shingles, Shakes Or 
Rough Sawn) Siding
60
$393.16
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 393.16
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.30
 1.1550
 148.00
Painting of eves is considered the as part of the exterior and is included in the scope of work per the Project 
Description on Sheet 1 of 4.
09  91   13   00 0116
0202
For >100 To 250, Add
61
$124.79
Installation
=
x
x
 124.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.73
 1.1550
 148.00
09  91   13   00 0231
1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Exterior Metal Door Frame And Trim
62
$54.78
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 54.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.93
 1.1550
 51.00
09  91   13   00 0233
2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Exterior Metal Door Frame And Trim
63
$119.58
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 119.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.03
 1.1550
 51.00
09  91   13   00 0238
1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Exterior Metal DoorBoth faces
64
$250.38
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 250.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 72.26
 1.1550
 3.00
EXTERIOR METAL DOORS
1 COAT: PRIMER 5725 DTM ACRYLIC METAL PRIMER.
09  91   13   00 0240
2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Exterior Metal DoorBoth faces
65
$453.05
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 453.05
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 130.75
 1.1550
 3.00
EXTERIOR METAL DOORS:
2 COATS: KM 2888 DURA - POXY HP ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI - GLOSS ENAMEL
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING
09  91   13   00 0309
1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Fascia Board
66
$51.79
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 51.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.59
 1.1550
 76.00
Refer to the project drawings on sheet 4, painting fascia boards is shown on the east, west, north, and 
south elevations. EXTERIOR WOOD TRIM & SIDING:  1 COAT: PRIMER KM 295 KEL BOND UNIVERSAL 
PRIMER.  Lead abatement work is excluded.
09  91   13   00 0311
2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work, Paint Fascia Board
67
$91.29
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 91.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.04
 1.1550
 76.00
Refer to the project drawings on sheet 4, painting fascia boards is shown on the east, west, north, and 
south elevations.  EXTERIOR WOOD TRIM & SIDING, 2 COATS: KM 1245 ACRYSHIELD 100 % ACRYLIC LOW 
SHEEN. Lead abatement work is excluded.
09  91   13   00 0311
0228
For Up To 100, Add
68
$47.40
Installation
=
x
x
 47.40
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.54
 1.1550
 76.00
09  91   23   00 0198
1 Coat Primer, Brush Work, Paint Interior Wood Smooth Ceiling
69
$344.10
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 344.10
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.98
 1.1550
 304.00
INTERIOR WOOD: 
1 COAT: KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER.
Page 8 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
127 of 386

--- page 128 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 09
09  91   23   00 0200
2 Coats Paint, Brush Work, Paint Interior Wood Smooth Ceiling
70
$649.57
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 649.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.85
 1.1550
 304.00
INTERIOR WOOD: 2 COATS, KM DURA-POXY HP 2888 ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI-GLOSS ENAMEL.
09  91   23   00 0208
1 Coat Primer, Brush Work, Paint Interior Wood Beams
71
$647.10
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 647.10
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.09
 1.1550
 514.00
09  91   23   00 0210
2 Coats Paint, Brush Work, Paint Interior Wood Beams
72
$1,199.21
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,199.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.02
 1.1550
 514.00
$164,303.94
Subtotal for Section - 09
Section - 10
10  14   23   11 0026
>100 SI, Acrylic, Surface Mount, Indoor/Outdoor Signs With Braille
73
$645.32
SI
Installation
=
x
x
 645.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.97
 1.1550
 576.00
Signage is required per sheet 1 Project Description, sheet 3 detail 7 Room Signage, and sheet 4 East 
Elevation detail.  576 SI converts to 4 SF.  4 signs, 2 signs per room.  1 SF per sign = 4 SF.
10  21   13   19 0022
30" x 42" x 1", Wall Hung And Post Supported, Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), 
Urinal Screen
74
$775.14
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 683.33
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 591.63
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 91.81
 79.49
 1.1550
 1.00
Men's Restroom - One urinal screen for the Men's Restroom as shown on sheet 3 detail 3 - Floor Plan.
10  21   13   19 0022
0164
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Brackets, Add
75
$54.93
Installation
=
x
x
 54.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 47.56
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0022
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
76
$309.82
Installation
=
x
x
 309.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 268.24
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0072
60" x 60", Overhead Braced, Antimicrobial Solid Plastic (High Density 
Polyethylene), One Compartment Corner Unit, Complete ADA Compliant Toilet 
Partition
77
$2,727.71
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,547.05
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,205.24
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 180.65
 156.41
 1.1550
 1.00
Women's Restroom - One (1) unit for the toilet compartment next to the ADA corner unit.
Specifications on sheet 2 of 4.
Manufacturer:  Accutec, Scranton Series.  Type: Polymer HDPE solid plastic floor to ceiling to match existing. 
All hardware, brackets, hinges, and shoes to be stainless steel.  Color: From manufacturer's standards.
10  21   13   19 0072
0162
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
78
$198.27
Installation
=
x
x
 198.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 171.66
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0072
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
79
$1,355.16
Installation
=
x
x
 1,355.16
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,173.30
 1.1550
 1.00
Page 9 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
128 of 386

--- page 129 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 10
10  21   13   19 0077
60" x 78", Floor And Ceiling Anchored, Antimicrobial Solid Plastic (HDPE), One 
Compartment Corner Unit, Complete ADA Compliant Toilet Partition
80
$3,079.16
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,861.77
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,477.72
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 217.39
 188.22
 1.1550
 1.00
Women's Restroom - One ADA compliant corner unit for the Women's Restroom, refer to sheet 3 detail 2 - 
Floor Plan.
10  21   13   19 0077
0162
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
81
$198.27
Installation
=
x
x
 198.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 171.66
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0077
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
82
$1,504.72
Installation
=
x
x
 1,504.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,302.79
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0100
36" x 55" x 1", Antimicrobial Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), ADA Compliant 
Toilet Partition Door
83
$710.15
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 682.59
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 590.99
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 27.56
 23.86
 1.1550
 1.00
Men's Room - One (1) ADA compliant door, refer to sheet 3 detail 2 Floor Plan.  No ADA compliant corner unit 
needed due to masonry walls.
10  21   13   19 0100
0163
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinge, Add
84
$88.39
Installation
=
x
x
 88.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 76.53
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0100
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
85
$389.04
Installation
=
x
x
 389.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 336.83
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0102
6" x 55" x 1", Antimicrobial Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), Toilet Partition Panel
86
$208.92
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 172.18
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 149.07
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 36.74
 31.81
 1.1550
 1.00
Men's Restroom - One (1) partition panel for door at ADA corner stall.  There are masonry walls that 
surround the stall, only one door is required.
10  21   13   19 0102
0164
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Brackets, Add
87
$54.93
Installation
=
x
x
 54.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 47.56
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0102
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
88
$61.19
Installation
=
x
x
 61.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 52.98
 1.1550
 1.00
10  21   13   19 0126
Up To 4" x 96" To 120" x 1", Antimicrobial Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), Toilet 
Partition Pilaster
89
$602.40
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 553.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 239.58
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 48.97
 21.20
 1.1550
 2.00
Men's Room - Two (2) floor-to-ceiling pilasters, one on each side of the door.  No partition panel needed 
because there is an existing masonry wall.
10  21   13   19 0126
0164
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Brackets, Add
90
$109.86
Installation
=
x
x
 109.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 47.56
 1.1550
 2.00
Page 10 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
129 of 386

--- page 130 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 10
10  21   13   19 0126
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
91
$282.37
Installation
=
x
x
 282.37
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 122.24
 1.1550
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0055
Two Roll, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Toilet Tissue Dispenser (Bobrick 
Contura B-4288)
92
$621.69
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 539.05
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 155.57
 1.1550
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 82.64
 23.85
 1.1550
 3.00
Women's: 2, Men's: 1.  Total 3.
10  28   13   13 0118
Partition Mounted, Stainless Steel Seat Cover And Toilet Tissue Dispenser With 
Sanitary Napkin Disposal (Bobrick B-357)
93
$2,168.99
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,985.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 572.97
 1.1550
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 183.65
 53.00
 1.1550
 3.00
Women's: 2, Men's: 1.  Total 3.
10  28   13   13 0126
20 Gallon, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Waste Receptacle (Bobrick 
B-275)
94
$999.47
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 877.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 379.67
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 122.43
 53.00
 1.1550
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0170
36" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x36)
95
$272.00
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 223.05
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 96.56
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 48.95
 21.19
 1.1550
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0172
48" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x48)
96
$287.76
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 238.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 103.38
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 48.95
 21.19
 1.1550
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0251
Surface Mounted, Automatic Sensor, White Epoxy Finish Steel Cover, CPC 
Technology, Dries Hands In 10 To 12 Seconds, Hand Dryer (American Dryer 
CPC9-M)CPC technology kills germs naturally with no chemicals. Electronically 
adjustable sound and speed.
97
$2,485.01
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,485.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,075.76
 1.1550
 2.00
BRADLEY Hand Dryer: Fixed, Epoxy Steel, Auto, White, ADA Compliant.
10  28   13   13 0333
1-1/4" Diameter, Satin Stainless Steel Drinking Fountain Grab Bars
98
$858.97
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 858.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 371.85
 1.1550
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0386
24" x 36", Surface Mounted, Fixed-Position Tilt, Stainless Steel Frame Glass 
Mirror (Bobrick B-293 2436)
99
$831.32
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 831.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 359.88
 1.1550
 2.00
$21,880.96
Subtotal for Section - 10
Section - 12
12  31   16   00 0017
30" Stainless Steel Base Cabinet, No Doors, No Drawers
100
$4,406.02
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,406.02
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,907.37
 1.1550
 2.00
New Custom sink bases, as requested by owner for the new cast concrete sink on metal pedestal. Sink 
Supported by custom metal frame Manufacturer by Fine Steel Products, San Jose, CA. Steel to Be ASTM 
A500 A/B.
Page 11 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
130 of 386

--- page 131 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
$4,406.02
Subtotal for Section - 12
Section - 22
22  13   13   00 0004
Wall Mounted Water Closet, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.
101
$4,670.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,670.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,347.99
 1.1550
 3.00
Men's 1, Women's 2.
22  13   13   00 0006
Wall Mounted Urinal, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.
102
$676.54
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 676.54
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 585.75
 1.1550
 1.00
Wall hung urinal rough in.
22  13   13   00 0007
Wall Mounted Lavatory, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and faucet.
103
$2,394.32
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,394.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 691.00
 1.1550
 3.00
22  42   13   13 0017
Flush Valve Type, Blow Out, Wall Mounted, Wall Outlet, Handicap Accessible, 
Elongated Vitreous China Water Closet (Kohler® Stratton™)
104
$4,158.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,744.87
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,080.77
 1.1550
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 413.86
 119.44
 1.1550
 3.00
Men's 1, Women's 2.
22  42   13   13 0054
Horizontal Adjustable, No-Hub, Single Water Closet Carrier
105
$3,393.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,223.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 930.17
 1.1550
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 170.69
 49.26
 1.1550
 3.00
Water Closet Carriers, one for Men's and 2 for Women's.
22  42   13   13 0054
0096
For Supply Pipe Support, Add
106
$170.17
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 170.17
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 49.11
 1.1550
 3.00
22  42   13   13 0054
0099
For Vandal Proof Trim, Add
107
$222.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 222.25
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 64.14
 1.1550
 3.00
22  42   13   16 0011
Wall Hung, Washout, Vitreous China Urinal (Zurn Z5798)
108
$822.13
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 706.80
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 611.95
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 115.33
 99.85
 1.1550
 1.00
Wall hung urinal.
22  42   13   16 0035
Wall Mounted Hanger Plate Type, Single Urinal Carrier
109
$282.93
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 241.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 209.50
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 40.96
 35.46
 1.1550
 1.00
Carrier for urinal.
Page 12 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
131 of 386

--- page 132 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 22
22  42   16   13 0087
1 Station Lavatory Sink, Quartz Surface Evero® (Bradley Verge LVRD1)
110
$6,719.93
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 6,547.51
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,834.42
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 172.42
 74.64
 1.1550
 2.00
Custom Cast Ramp Sink and Counter as Manufactured by Sonoma Cast Stone. 40" Wide x 22" Deep x 2" 
Thick "Earthcrete". Finish: "Nucrete Format".  Refer to page 2 Plumbing Fixture schedule, note 2. This price 
includes equipment needed to lift of truck and place in each restroom.
22  42   16   13 0104
Floor Mounted, Single Lavatory Carrier With Exposed Acid Resistant White 
Coated Arms
111
$1,991.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,894.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 820.01
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 97.00
 41.99
 1.1550
 2.00
Men's and Women's sinks.
22  42   39   00 0182
Electronic Soap Dispenser And Faucet Combination (Sloan Optima 
ESD-30880-BDT)
112
$2,896.42
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,896.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,253.86
 1.1550
 2.00
Men's 1, Women's 2.
22  42   43   00 0022
1.28 GPF, Top Spud, Concealed Infrared Water Closet Flush Valve (Toto 
EcoPower TET2LN32 Or TET3LN32)
113
$4,255.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,144.94
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,196.23
 1.1550
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 110.26
 31.82
 1.1550
 3.00
Men's 1, Women's 2.  New infrared flush valves for the water closets.  New electrical will need to be 
installed to provide power to the new plumbing fixtures.
22  42   43   00 0026
6 Volt DC, 120 Volt AC Hardwired Power Transformer (Sloan EL-451)
114
$263.20
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 263.20
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 113.94
 1.1550
 2.00
To step down power for DC power to new infrared plumbing fixtures.
22  42   43   00 0043
Exposed Infrared Urinal Flush Valve (3/4" V.B.) (Toto EcoPower 
TEU1LN12)0.5 GPF.
115
$1,079.76
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,079.76
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 934.86
 1.1550
 1.00
Urinal Exposed Infrared Urinal Flush Valve, Flush Valve TEU1LA12#CP.
22  47   13   00 0050
Bi-Level (High/Low), Vandal Proof Non-Recessed, Stainless Steel Drinking 
Fountain With Bottle Filler (Filtrine FC-107-14-HL-VP)
116
$12,033.28
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 11,817.73
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10,231.80
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 215.55
 186.62
 1.1550
 1.00
Provide as specified per plans: 
 Drinking Fountain & Bottle Filler Elkay VRCTLR8WSK, provide electrical connection and modify plumbing lines 
and electrical connections as needed.
22  47   26   00 0004
Floor Mounted Bearing Plate Type, Single Water Cooler Carrier
117
$640.32
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 599.36
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 518.93
 1.1550
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 40.96
 35.46
 1.1550
 1.00
Carrier for Bi-level drinking fountain.
22  47   26   00 0004
0116
For Bi-Level Carrier, Add
118
$307.82
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 307.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 266.51
 1.1550
 1.00
$46,978.73
Subtotal for Section - 22
Page 13 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
132 of 386

--- page 133 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 23
23  09   23   53 0295
Astronomical Clock Program, Lighting Programming Measures
119
$477.59
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 477.59
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 413.50
 1.1550
 1.00
Specified door hardware.
$477.59
Subtotal for Section - 23
Section - 26
26  05   29   00 0167
1/2", One Hole Steel Conduit Strap
120
$177.87
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 177.87
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.08
 1.1550
 50.00
26  05   29   00 0167
0108
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
121
$45.62
Installation
=
x
x
 45.62
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.79
 1.1550
 50.00
26  05   29   00 0167
0109
For Installation On Concrete (Includes Drilling And Fastener), Add
122
$43.89
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 43.89
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.76
 1.1550
 50.00
26  05   33   13 0003
1/2" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Conduit Assembly With 2 #12 Copper 
THHN And 1 #12 Copper Insulated Grounding ConductorIncludes conduit, set 
screw connectors, set screw couplings, straps, wire as indicated. Not for 
use where detail is available.
123
$2,390.09
CLF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,390.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 689.78
 1.1550
 3.00
26  05   33   13 0003
0017
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
124
$547.05
Installation
=
x
x
 547.05
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 157.88
 1.1550
 3.00
26  05   33   13 0600
1/2" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Conduit
125
$1,270.27
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,270.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.23
 1.1550
 260.00
26  05   33   16 0005
3-1/2" Depth, 4" Square Steel Box
126
$255.99
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 255.99
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 36.94
 1.1550
 6.00
26  09   23   00 0125
Electronic Timeclock, 365-Day Single Channel For LightingIncluding indoor 
rated enclosure, terminations, 3-pole contactor.
127
$658.84
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 658.84
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 570.42
 1.1550
 1.00
26  51   19   00 0294
2' x 4', 4,600 Lumens, Surface Mount, Shadow Box Style LED Fixture 
(Lithonia 2SBSLX4)
128
$1,985.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,904.69
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 824.54
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 81.10
 35.11
 1.1550
 2.00
26  56   19   00 0257
8,000 Lumens, 82 Watt, Surface Mount, Square, LED Canopy/Soffit Fixture 
(CREE® BetaLED® CPY250)
129
$1,788.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,563.52
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 676.85
 1.1550
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 224.69
 97.27
 1.1550
 2.00
$9,163.63
Subtotal for Section - 26
Section - 27
Page 14 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
133 of 386

--- page 134 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
Section - 27
27  15   13   00 0037
2 Pair #18 AWG, Solid, Shielded, Non-Plenum Rated, Low Voltage, Alarm And 
Communications Cable, Installed In Conduit
130
$999.21
MLF
Installation
=
x
x
 999.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,441.86
 1.1550
 0.60
$999.21
Subtotal for Section - 27
Proposal Total
This total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$298,253.22
The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal:
%
Page 15 of 15
8/24/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
134 of 386

--- page 135 ---
Subcontractor Listing
105276.00
San Mateo - Casanova Park restroom remodel
CA-R5-GB02-123021-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
August 24, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management
$298,253.22
%
Duties
Name of Contractor
Amount
No Subcontractors have been 
selected for this Work Order
 0.00
$0.00
 6.00
Page 1 of 1
8/24/2022
Subcontractor Listing
135 of 386

--- page 136 ---
08/11/22 
Detailed Scope of Work 
Project Name: 
Casanova Park Restroom Maintenance Project 
City Job Number: 
469030    
Owner: 
Site Address: 
City of San Mateo, Public Works Department 
4012 Casanova Dr, San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
1. Description 
       The City of San Mateo Public Works Department Facilities Division has issued plan check delta 1 
drawings, dated 05/31/2022, for the renovation of the existing Men’s & Women’s Restroom located 
at 4012 Casanova Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403.  
2. Trades 
Trades will include plumbing, bathroom accessories, glazing, doors, frames, hardware, 
electrical, painting, flooring. 
3. Scope of Work 
        The City of San Mateo Public Works Department has requested the contractor to provide 
temporary chain link fencing around perimeter of building prior to demolition work to restrict 
public access into the construction area for public safety concerns.  A temporary gate will be 
installed and used by workers to control access into the area. The Scope of Work includes: 
Plumbing:  
• 
Remove all plumbing fixtures. 
• 
Remove existing exterior drinking fountain. 
• 
New cast concrete sink on metal pedestal. 
o New custom bases for new sinks, as requested by owner to support the new cast 
concrete sink. The sink will be supported by a custom metal frame Manufacturer 
by Fine Steel Products, San Jose, CA.  
o New custom cast ramp sink and counter Manufactured by Sonoma Cast Stone. 
40" Wide x 22" Deep x 2" Thick "Earthcrete". Finish: "Nucrete Format". Refer to 
page 2 Plumbing Fixture schedule, note 2. 
• 
New toilets & wall cleanout. 
• 
New urinal. 
• 
New fixtures, coordinate with electrical subcontractor to provide power as required. 
o Electronic/infrared soap dispensers. 
o Electronic/infrared faucets. 
o Electronic/infrared flush valves. 
o Electronic accessible drinking fountain and bottle filler. 
136 of 386

--- page 137 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 2 
Page 2 of 10 
 
• 
New drinking fountain, grab bars by others.  Refer to delta 1 revision plan check notes in 
drawings on sheet 3 of 4. 
• 
Verify rim elevation of drains, adjust as needed. Coordinate with flooring subcontractor. 
Bathroom Accessories: 
• 
Remove all toilet partitions. 
• 
Remove all accessories. 
• 
New wainscot finish: Neolith, Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels ¼" in thickness and 
are available in 126"x 60" in size and are to be cut to a size of 48" x 48", up 8'-0” high. 
• 
New toilet partitions and hardware as noted in the delta 1 revisions on sheet 3 of 4. 
• 
New accessories.   
o Includes Bradley Hand Dryer: Fixed, Epoxy Steel, Auto, White, ADA Compliant, 
refer to Accessories Schedule on sheet 3 of 4. 
• 
New rails at drinking fountain.  
• 
New cover plates at C.M.U. lower openings, (6) six qty.  
• 
Ceiling & walls for new finishes. 
Glazing: 
• 
Repair damaged section of obscure glass on exterior north wall (refer to jpg image). 
Doors, Frames, Hardware, and Restroom Signage: 
• 
Remove door & jamb accessibility signage. 
• 
New doors, frames, and hardware. Coordinate with electrical subcontractor. 
• 
Install new signage at both restrooms that includes tactile visual signage and visual 
signage at each restroom as shown sheets 3 and 4 of the drawings. 
Electrical: 
• 
Remove ceiling & wall mounted light fixtures. 
• 
Remove lock timers at doors & associated wiring & conduit. 
• 
New vandal resistant LED ceiling & wall mounted light fixture & wiring. 
• 
New astronomic lighting timer. 
• 
Install new electrical for door hardware for new power actuated doors at both 
restrooms, coordinate with electrical subcontractor. 
• 
Install new electrical for plumbing fixtures, coordinate with plumbing subcontractor. 
• 
Electrical Notes: 
o 1. Re-connect light controls to Cal-Sense System, verify with city representative. 
o 2. Reuse (E) circuits for new door electronic door strikes. 
o 3. Provide new circuits as needed for new electrical to plumbing fixtures and 
accessories. 
o 4. Provide motion sensors for interior lights. 
137 of 386

--- page 138 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 3 
Page 3 of 10 
 
o 5. Exterior lights provide photocell. 
Painting: 
• 
Pressure wash exterior. 
• 
Primer (1) one coat and paint (2) two coats interior & exterior. 
• 
Exterior wood trim, eaves, facia, and siding:  
o 1 coat: Primer KM 295 Kel Bond Universal Primer. 
o 2 coats: KM 1245 Acryshield 100 % Acrylic Low Sheen. 
• 
Interior wood: 
o 1 coat: Km 295 Kel-Bond Universal Primer. 
Epoxy Flooring: 
• 
Apply epoxy flooring trowel applied mortar to slope concrete floor to meet ADA 
requirements, coordinate with plumbing subcontractor. 
• 
Prepare floor for new resinous poured finish.  
• 
New floor & curb finish. 
Exclusions: 
• 
Environmental survey, including sampling and laboratory analysis. 
• 
Abatement of any kind, including lead and asbestos. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
138 of 386

--- page 139 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 4 
Page 4 of 10 
 
4. Job Site Photographs 
         
 
139 of 386

--- page 140 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 5 
Page 5 of 10 
 
  
   
 
 
 
140 of 386

--- page 141 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 6 
Page 6 of 10 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
141 of 386

--- page 142 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 7 
Page 7 of 10 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
 
  
142 of 386

--- page 143 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 8 
Page 8 of 10 
 
     
 
   
 
143 of 386

--- page 144 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 9 
Page 9 of 10 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
144 of 386

--- page 145 ---
Detailed Detailed Scope of Work 
Casanova Park Restroom  
Page 10 
Page 10 of 10 
 
  
 
 
  
 
End 
mk 
 
145 of 386

--- page 146 ---
Casanova Park Restroom Remodel 
4012 Casanova Drive 
San Mateo, California 
 
Plan Check Response Narrative 
BD – 2022 - 284068 
 
 
1.  
General Items: 
1. Plans have been signed by San Mateo Public Works/Facilities Representative. 
2. Copy of CASp Report attached. 
 
2. 
Architectural 
1. 
Sheet 3 Floor Plan:  Men’s room 60” turning radius added & Women’s  
room “T” shaped turning space noted. 
 
2. 
Sheet 3 Floor Plan:  Door landing clearances added. See Note 4 regarding 
landing at accessible Women’s stall and revised CASp Summary Sheet 1. 
 
3. 
Sheet 3 Floor Plan:  Depth of urinal partition revised. 
 
4. 
Sheet 3 Floor Plan:  Lavatory centerline dimensions added. 
 
5. 
Sheet 3 Detail 8:  Waste receptacle height above floor clarified. 
 
6. 
Sheet 3 Detail 5:  34” clear partition door dimension added. 
 
7. 
Sheet 3 Floor Plan: Hardship Form attached. 
 
8. 
Sheet 3 Detail 6:  See Note No. 9 regarding minimum rail depth.  
 
9. 
Sheet 3 Detail 7:  Braille signage note added. 
 
3. 
Electrical 
1. 
No outlet or switches provided. 
 
 
4. 
Planning- Building Permit 
1. 
See Sheet 4 / Detail 2:  Added note - paint to match existing colors. 
 
 
 
146 of 386

--- page 147 ---
AREA OF
WORK
(E) 8" CMU WALL
TO BE REMOVED
(N)  FLOORING FINISH
(N) WAINSCOT
580
80
680
780
VALLEJO
4
CONCORD
LAFAYETTE
MARTINEZ
4
SAN PABLO
HERCULES
PINOLE
680
HILL
PLEASANT
242
MARIN
101
MILL
MADERA
ANSELMO
SAN
LARKSPUR
RAFAEL
SAN
CORTE
CO.
580
580
580
80
80
24
ALBANY
BERKELEY
EMERYVILLE
OAKLAND
MORAGA
PLEASANTON
LIVERMORE
SAN BRUNO
SAN LEANDRO
LORENZO
ALAMEDA
BRISBANE
SOUTH
SAN
238
580
HAYWARD
SAUSALITO
CITY
MARIN
SAN
280
PACIFICA
DALY
CITY
COLMA
SAN FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
VALLEY
TIBURON
ORINDA
WALNUT CREEK
FREMONT
101
92
BELMONT
MATEO
FOSTER CITY
SAN
BURLINGAME
MILBRAE
880
84
NEWARK
UNION CITY
880
680
MILPITAS
ALTOS
MOUNTAIN
280
PARK
WOODSIDE
REDWOOD
ATHERTON
MENLO PARK
VIEW
LOS
SUNNYVALE
REDWOOD CITY
MOSS BEACH
MONTARA
LINDA MAR
EL GRANADA
HALF MOON BAY
PALO ALTO
PROJECT
AREA
SHEET INDEX
1 
COVER SHEET
2
PROJECT NOTES & SCHEDULES
3
DEMOLITION PLAN, FLOOR PLAN, DETAILS
4 
INTERIOR & EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
EXISTING MENS & WOMENS  RESTROOM TO BE REMODELED.
SCOPE OF WORK INCLUDES:
· REMOVE ALL PLUMBING FIXTURES
· REMOVE ALL TOILET PARTITIONS
· REMOVE ALL ACCESSORIES
· REMOVE CEILING & WALL MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURES
· REMOVE LOCK TIMERS AT DOORS & ASSOCIATED WIRING & CONDUIT
· REMOVE DOOR & JAMB  ACCESSIBILITY SIGNAGE
· REMOVE DOORS & FRAMES
· REMOVE EXISTING EXTERIOR DRINKING FOUNTAIN
· PREPARE  FLOOR, CEILING & WALLS FOR NEW FINISHES
· NEW WAINSCOT FINISH
· NEW FLOOR & CURB  FINISH
· NEW CAST CONCRETE SINK ON METAL PEDESTAL
· NEW TOILETS & WALL CLEANOUT
· NEW URINAL
· NEW TOILET PARTITIONS
· NEW ACCESSORIES
· NEW DRINKING FOUNTAIN * RAILS
· NEW DOOR, FRAME, HARDWARE & SIGNAGE
· NEW COVER PLATE AT C.M.U. OPENINGS
· NEW VANDAL RESISTANT LED CEILING & WALL MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURE & WIRING
· NEW ASTRONOMIC LIGHTING TIMER
· PAINT INTERIOR & EXTERIOR
ABBREVIATIONS
C.M.U CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT  
(E)     EXISTING
G.W.B. GYPSUM WALL BOARD
(N)  
NEW
SYMBOLS LEGEND
CASANOVA PARK
RESTROOM MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
1
PROJECT
AREA
1
KEY PLAN
N.T.S.
2
VICINITY MAP
N.T.S.
3
LOCATION PLAN
N.T.S.
EAST 40TH AVE.
CASANOVA DR.
CASANOVA
PARK
User = PSM
Date = Friday, December 17, 2021 7:07:29 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21923 San Mateo - Casanova\Con Docs\CAD Set\Casanova Sheets v1.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
CASANOVA PARK
RESTROOM REMODEL
2021
PROJECT # 469030
1
PASADENA DR.
BUILDING & CODE DATA
BUILDING TYPE:
V-B
OCCUPANCY GROUP:
FIRE SPRINKLERED:
NO
TOTAL BUILDING AREA:
309 S.F.
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC)
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CMC)
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE (CPC)
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE (CEC)
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (CFC)
INTERIOR
ELEVATION
A
C
B
D
1
1
WC
KEYNOTE TAG
EQUIPMENT TAG
DOOR TAG
ACCESSORY  TAG
A
1
&nbsp;
147 of&nbsp;386

--- page 148 ---
User = PSM
Date = Friday, December 17, 2021 7:07:29 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21923 San Mateo - Casanova\Con Docs\CAD Set\Casanova Sheets v1.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
CASANOVA PARK
RESTROOM REMODEL
2021
PROJECT # 469030
2
ACCESSORIES SCHEDULE
TAG
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
MODEL NO.
HAND DRYER
BRADLEY
2903-2874
2- ROLL TOILET PAPER DISPENSER
THE PARK CATALOG
152-1003
WALL MTD. SOAP DISPENSER
BRADLEY
6562
D
STAINLESS STEEL MIRROR
BRADLEY
748-2436
E
36" GRAB BAR
BRADLEY
821-001-36
F
48" GRAB BAR
BRADLEY
821-001-48
G
SEAT COVER DISPENSER
BRADLEY
5831
H
WASTE RECEPTACLE - WALL MTD.
BRADLEY
355
A
B
C
 
 
 
 
PLUMBING FIXTURES
TAG
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
MODEL NO.
NOTES
WC
WATER CLOSET
TOTO
CT708UV
COLOR: #01 COTTON
SEE NOTE 1
FLUSH VALVE
TOTO
TET2LA31-1.28-HW
VERIFY W/ (E) CONDITIONS
LAV
RAMP SINK
SONOMA CAST
STONE
SEE NOTE 2
PROVIDE THERMOSTATIC
MIXING VALVE
FAUCET
SLOAN
SF-2400-4-PLG-BDM-CP-0.5
GPM-MLM-IR-FCT
 120v- 1PH, SEE NOTE 3
UR
URINAL
TOTO
UT447EV 0.5 GPM
COLOR: #01 COTTON
FLUSH VALVE
TEU1LA12#CP
DF
DRINKING FOUNTAIN &
BOTTLE FILLER
ELKAY
VRCTLR8WSK
PROVIDE ELECTRICAL
CONNECTION, SEE NOTE 4
WH
WALL HYDRANT
ZURN
Z1350-VB 7 1
2" WALL
CYLINDER LOCK W/ VACUUM
BREAKER, BACKFLOW
PREVENTER
DOOR HARDWARE SPECIFICATION
RESTROOM DOOR
     3
HINGE
MPB99 4-1/2" X 4-1/2" NRP
32D/630
MCKINNEY
1
DOOR CLOSER
1431 O XP9
626
SARGENT
1
ARM PULL
AP1007
630
ROCKWOOD
1
DEAD BOLT
B662P KEYED BOTH SIDES
626
SCHLAGE
1
LATCH PROTECTOR
320-RKW
630
ROCKWOOD
1 
LOCKSET
ND96PD X RHO LEVER
STOREROOM FUNCTION
WITH VANDLGARD
626
SCHLAGE
1
ELECTRIC STRIKE
6211-US32D-FSE-24VDC
US 32D
VON DUPRIN
1 
POWER SUPPLY
PS 902
SCHLAGE
NOTE:
POWER SUPPLY MODULE CONNECTED TO THE ELECTRIC STRIKE IS TO BE OPERATED BY THE EXISTING
“CAL SENSE” TIMER LOCATED IN THE UTILITY ROOM.  CONNECTION OF THE POWER SUPPLY TO THE TIMER
IS TO BE COORDINATED WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO REPRESENTATIVE.
 
DOOR SPECIFICATION & NOTES
3'-0" X 7'-0" INSULATED HOLLOW METAL DOOR  AND HOLLOW METAL FRAME, FIELD VERIFY DOOR SIZE
THE BOTTOM 10" OF DOOR SHALL HAVE SMOOTH, UNINTERRUPTED SURFACE.
DOOR OPENING FORCE TO BE 5 LBS. MAX. (CBC 11B-404.2.9)  DOOR CLOSING SPEED W/ CLOSER TO BE 5 SEC. MIN.
FROM 90 DEG. OPEN TO 12 DEG FROM LATCH  (CBC 11B-404.2.8)
PROJECT NOTES
GENERAL CONDITIONS
A. ANY VARIANCE OR DEVIATIONS REQUESTED BY THE CONTRACTOR TO THESE GENERAL CONDITIONS SHALL BE AGREED TO,
IN WRITING, PRIOR TO BID AND CONTRACT ACCEPTANCE, WITH THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
B. CONFORM TO ALL GENERAL AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT AS SPECIFIED BY CITY OF SAN MATEO.
C. SPECIFICATIONS ARE APPLICABLE TO ALL CONTRACTORS AND/OR SUBCONTRACTORS.
D. CHECK OTHER PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND FULLY COORDINATE WITH ALL SYSTEMS.
E. VISIT SITE, CHECK FACILITIES AND CONDITIONS, VERIFY ALL UTILITY CONNECTIONS, AND TAKE ALL ITEMS INTO
CONSIDERATION IN BID.
F. SYSTEMS ARE TO BE COMPLETE AND FULLY FUNCTIONAL, PLACED IN OPERATION AND PROPERLY ADJUSTED.
G.CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE FOR CLEAN UP, RECYCLING, REMOVAL AND LEGAL DISPOSAL OF ALL RUBBISH ON A DAILY
BASIS.
H. FULLY COORDINATE ALL WORK AND COOPERATE COMPLETELY WITH OTHER CONTRACTORS, SUBCONTRACTORS AND CITY
REPRESENTATIVES.
I. CONTRACTORS MUST CONFIRM ALL UTILITY CONNECTION POINTS IN FIELD, PRIOR TO STARTING WORK.
J. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CONSTRUCTION MEANS, METHODS, SEQUENCES OF
CONSTRUCTION, AND THE SAFETY OF WORKERS AND USERS OF THE FACILITIES.
K. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS AS LISTED BELOW:
ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES (ADAAG) TITLE III & CALIFORNIA TITLE 24
A. THE CONTRACTOR, ALL SUB-CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS, FABRICATORS, AND MANUFACTURERS, IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
THEIR WORK ARE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH THE LATEST ADDITION OF THE AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT
ACCESSIBLE GUIDELINES (ADAAG), TITLE III AS ENACTED ON JANUARY 26, 1992 (2010 ADA STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE
DESIGN - 10/15/2010) AND ALL CURRENT REVISIONS AND SUPPLEMENTS, AND CALIFORNIA TITLE 24 GUIDELINES (CHAPTER
11B-CURRENT EDITION, CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE, 2019 EDITION).
B. THE CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO REVIEW ALL PROJECT PLANS AND DETAILS, BOTH SPECIFIC AND GENERAL IN NATURE,
FOR APPLICATION AND INTENT, AND COORDINATE THESE REQUIREMENTS WITH ACTUAL ONSITE CONDITIONS TO VERIFY
THAT THE REQUIREMENTS OF ACCESSIBILITY ARE BEING MET WITH THE PROPER CONSTRUCTION.
C. SHOULD THE CONTRACTOR FAIL TO COMPLY WITH ANY OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ADAAG AND CALIFORNIA BUILDING
CODE THAT ARE DESCRIBED HERE AND APPLY TO THIS PROJECT, THEY SHALL, UPON WRITTEN NOTIFICATION, IMMEDIATELY
CORRECT THE NON-CONFORMING WORK AT NO COST TO THE OWNER.
GREEN BUILDING NOTES
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL LOCAL AND STATE GREEN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS, LAWS AND ORDINANCES
RELATED TO CONSTRUCTION
B. VOC LIMITS:   VOC LIMITS SHALL COMPLY WITH FEDERAL EPA STANDARDS AND ALL STATE AND LOCAL JURISDICTIONAL
REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL USE PRODUCTS THAT REDUCE OR ELIMINATE VOC'S FROM THE PROJECT.
C.FORMALDEHYDE USE:  ALL MATERIAL UTILIZED ON THE PROJECT SHALL BE FREE OF FORMALDEHYDE OR UREA-
FORMALDEHYDE RESINS WITH THEIR CONTENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL ENSURE THAT NO FORMALDEHYDE BASED
PRODUCTS ARE USED ON THIS PROJECT.
D. RECYCLED MATERIALS AND MATERIALS CONTENT: TO THE GREATEST EXTENT PRACTICAL, UTILIZE PRODUCTS AND
MATERIALS CONTAINING RECYCLED CONTENT. ENSURE THAT THE USE OF THESE PRODUCTS WILL NOT ADVERSELY AFFECT
THE FINISHED CONSTRUCTION PRODUCT.  COORDINATE WITH THE ARCHITECT AND CITY OF SAN MATEO FOR INDIVIDUAL
MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS WHERE QUESTION OR CONFLICTS OCCUR.
E. CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT:   COMPLY WITH CITY OF SAN MATEO CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT
REQUIREMENTS.
01 31 00 - PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
A. COORDINATE CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS INCLUDED IN DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO
ENSURE EFFICIENT AND ORDERLY INSTALLATION OF EACH PART OF THE WORK.  COORDINATE CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS,
INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, THAT DEPEND ON EACH OTHER FOR PROPER INSTALLATION,
CONNECTION AND OPERATIONS.
B. PREPARE COORDINATION DRAWINGS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE WORK, WHERE INSTALLATION MAY
NOT BE COMPLETELY SHOWN ON SHOP DRAWINGS, WHERE LIMITED SPACE NECESSITATES COORDINATION, OR IF
COORDINATION IS REQUIRE FACILITATING INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS FABRICATED OR INSTALLED BY
MORE THAN ONE ENTITY.
C.ISSUE REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI) IMMEDIATELY ON DISCOVERY OF NEED FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OR
INTERPRETATION OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL PREPARE AND SUBMIT RFI'S TO THE CITY OF SAN
MATEO REPRESENTATIVE AND ARCHITECT, IN THE FORM ACCEPTABLE TO THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER.  CONTRACTOR
SHALL REFERENCE ALL APPLICABLE INFORMATION INCLUDING INDICATIONS OF LOCATION OF WORK IN QUESTIONS.
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTE ANY TIME OR COST IMPACTS TO THE PROJECT ASSOCIATED WITH THE RFI, AT THE TIME OF THE
INITIAL RFI SUBMITTAL. CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP A LOG OF THE RFI'S.
D. PRECONSTRUCTION/PREINSTALLATION CONFERENCES:  CONTRACTOR SHALL HOLD PRECONSTRUCTION/PREINSTALLATION
CONFERENCES WITH THEIR SUB-CONTRACTORS WHEN APPLICABLE TO FACILITATE THE SCHEDULING AND COORDINATION
OF THE WORK TO BE INSTALLED ON THE PROJECT.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER AT LEAST 3
DAYS IN ADVANCE OF PRECONSTRUCTION CONFERENCES HELD AT THE SITE AND AFFORD THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ATTEND THESE MEETINGS IF DESIRED.
013100 - SUBMITTALS PROCEDURES
A. ALL PROJECT SUBMITTALS SHALL BE PROVIDED COMPLETE, ACCURATE AND COORDINATED WITH THE WORK OF RELATED
TRADES.  ALL SUBMITTALS SHALL BE MADE NO LATER THAN 45 DAYS AFTER THE NOTICE TO PROCEED. THE OWNER WILL BE
PROVIDED 14 CALENDAR DAYS TO REVIEW AND RETURN SUBMITTALS TO THE CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP A
LOG OF THE SUBMITTALS AND THEIR STATUS.
B. COORDINATION WITH PROJECT SCHEDULE: CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE THE TIMING OF ALL SUBMITTALS TO ENSURE
PROPER TIME HAS BEEN ALLOTTED FOR REVIEWS AND APPROVALS PRIOR TO THE PROCUREMENT OF MATERIALS FOR
WORK TO BE PERFORMED.  CONTRACTOR IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING THAT SUFFICIENT TIME IN THE PROJECT
SCHEDULE IS PROVIDED FOR THIS PROCESS. MATERIALS AND WORK THAT ARE COMMENCED AND COMPLETED BY THE
CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTORS PRIOR TO RECEIVING FINAL APPROVALS FOR THEIR SUBMITTALS, SHALL BE DONE AT
THEIR OWN RISK, AND THE COST OF CORRECTING ANY WORK, NOT CONFORMING WITH SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS, IF
EXECUTED PRIOR TO THE COMPLETION OF THE SUBMITTAL PROCESS, SHALL BE BORNE SOLELY BY THE CONTRACTOR.
C. SUBMITTAL COORDINATION:  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO COORDINATE ALL SUBMITTALS TO ENSURE ACCURACY AND
COMPLETENESS, AS WELL AS INTEGRATION WITH ALL OTHER ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT WORK PRIOR TO MAKING
SUBMITTALS TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO PROJECT MANAGER FOR REVIEW.  SUBMITTALS THAT ARE INCOMPLETE OR HAVE
NOT BEEN COORDINATED WITH THE FIELD CONDITIONS, FIELD DIMENSIONS, OR OTHER APPLICABLE TRADES SHALL BE
RETURNED FOR CORRECTION WITHOUT REVIEW BY THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
D. REVIEW FOR COORDINATION:  SUBMITTALS THAT REQUIRE COORDINATION WITH OTHER SUBMITTALS MAY BE HELD BY THE
CITY PROJECT MANAGER OR ARCHITECT UNTIL ALL RELATED SUBMITTALS ARE PROVIDED FOR REVIEW TO ENSURE
COMPLETENESS AND COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
E. PROVIDE SUBMITTALS OF EACH PRODUCT AND SYSTEM REQUIRED ON THE PROJECT TO THE OWNER, CONSTRUCTION
MANAGER AND ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT.
1. PRODUCT CERTIFICATES: PREPARE WRITTEN STATEMENTS ON MANUFACTURER'S LETTERHEAD CERTIFYING THAT
PRODUCT COMPLIES WITH REQUIREMENTS.
2. MATERIAL CERTIFICATES: PREPARE WRITTEN STATEMENTS ON MANUFACTURER'S LETTERHEAD CERTIFYING THAT
MATERIAL COMPLIES WITH REQUIREMENTS.
3. RESEARCH / EVALUATION REPORTS: PREPARE WRITTEN EVIDENCE FROM A MODEL CODE ORGANIZATION ACCEPTABLE TO
AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION. THAT PRODUCT COMPLIES WITH BUILDING CODE IN EFFECT FOR PROJECT.
4. MAINTENANCE DATA: PREPARE WRITTEN AND GRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION AND NORMAL
MAINTENANCE OF PRODUCTS AND EQUIPMENT.
5. DESIGN DATA: PREPARE WRITTEN AND GRAPHIC INFORMATION, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PERFORMANCE AND
DESIGN CRITERIA, LIST OF APPLICATION CODES AND REGULATIONS, AND CALCULATIONS. INCLUDE LIST OF ASSUMPTIONS
AND OTHER PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA AND A SUMMARY OF LOADS. INCLUDE LOAD DIAGRAMS IF APPLICABLE.
PROVIDE NAME AND VERSION OF SOFTWARE, IF ANY, USED FOR CALCULATIONS. INCLUDE PAGE NUMBERS.
6. MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS: PREPARE WRITTEN OR PUBLISHED INFORMATION THAT DOCUMENTS
MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND PROCEDURES FOR INSTALLING OR OPERATING A PRODUCT OR
EQUIPMENT. INCLUDE NAME OF PRODUCT AND NAME, ADDRESS, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF MANUFACTURER.
7. PRODUCT DATA: COLLECT INFORMATION INTO A SINGLE SUBMITTAL FOR EACH ELEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION AND TYPE OF
PRODUCT OR EQUIPMENT.
8. CLEARLY MARK EACH COPY OF EACH SUBMITTAL TO SHOW WHICH PRODUCTS AND OPTIONS ARE APPLICABLE.
9. SHOP DRAWINGS: PREPARE PROJECT-SPECIFIC INFORMATION, DRAWN ACCURATELY TO SCALE. DO NOT BASE SHOP
DRAWINGS ON REPRODUCTIONS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS OR STANDARD PRINTED DATA. INCLUDE THE
FOLLOWING INFORMATION. AS APPLICABLE.
10. COORDINATION DRAWINGS:  PREPARE PROJECT-SPECIFIC COORDINATION DRAWINGS WHERE INSTALLATION IS NOT
COMPLETELY SHOWN ON SHOP DRAWINGS, WHERE LIMITED SPACE NECESSITATES COORDINATION, OR IF COORDINATION
IS REQUIRED TO FACILITATE INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS INSTALLED BY MORE THAN ONE ENTITY.
F. SUBMIT SAMPLES FOR REVIEW OF MODEL, COLOR, PATTERN, AND TEXTURE FOR A FINAL CHECK OF THESE
CHARACTERISTICS WITH OTHER ELEMENTS AND FOR A COMPARISON OF THESE CHARACTERISTICS BETWEEN FINAL
SUBMITTAL AND ACTUAL COMPONENT AS DELIVERED AND INSTALLED.
G.DISPOSITION: MAINTAIN SETS OF APPROVED SAMPLES AT PROJECT SITE, AVAILABLE FOR QUALITY-CONTROL COMPARISONS
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. SAMPLE SETS MAY BE USED TO DETERMINE FINAL ACCEPTANCE
OF CONSTRUCTION ASSOCIATED WITH EACH SET.
01 40 00 - QUALITY REQUIREMENTS
A. MINIMUM QUALITY OR QUALITY LEVELS: THE QUANTITY OR QUALITY LEVEL SHOWN OR SPECIFIED SHALL BE THE MINIMUM
PROVIDED OR PERFORMED. THE ACTUAL INSTALLATION MAY COMPLY EXACTLY WITH THE MINIMUM QUANTITY OR QUALITY
SPECIFIED, OR IT MAY EXCEED THE MINIMUM WITHIN REASONABLE LIMITS. TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS,
INDICATED NUMERIC VALUES ARE MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM, AS APPROPRIATE, FOR THE CONTEXT OF THE REQUIREMENTS.
REFER UNCERTAINTIES TO CITY PROJECT MANAGER FOR A FINAL DETERMINATION BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH
PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF WORK.
B. REFERENCE STANDARDS:  IF COMPLIANCE WITH TWO OR MORE STANDARDS IS SPECIFIED AND THE STANDARDS ESTABLISH
DIFFERENT OR CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS FOR MINIMUM QUANTITIES OR QUALITY LEVELS, IT IS ASSUMED THE
CONTRACTOR HAS BID AND WILL COMPLY WITH THE MOST STRINGENT REQUIREMENT. IN NO CASE SHALL IT BE ASSUMED
THAT PROJECT REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED ARE INTENDED TO BE LESS THAN WHAT IS COMPLIANT WITH MINIMUM CODE
REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK. REFER CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT, BUT APPARENTLY EQUAL, TO
ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW AND DIRECTION PRIOR TO PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF THE WORK.
C. QUALITY-CONTROL PERSONNEL: CONTRACTOR SHALL ENGAGE A QUALIFIED, FULL-TIME PERSONNEL TRAINED AND
EXPERIENCED IN MANAGING AND EXECUTING QUALITY-ASSURANCE AND QUALITY-CONTROL PROCEDURES AS REQUIRED BY
THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THOSE FOR THE PROJECT. WHERE ALLOWED BY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CONTRACTOR'S
SUPERINTENDENT, AND / OR PROJECT MANAGER, IF QUALIFIED, CAN PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE CONTRACTOR'S QUALITY
CONTROL PERSONNEL.
D. COORDINATION OF QUALITY-CONTROL WORK:  CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE ALL REQUIRED QUALITY-CONTROL WORK
TO BE PERFORMED ON SITE BY CIVIC AND CONTRACTOR PROVIDED INSPECTORS, PRODUCT MANUFACTURER'S TECHNICAL
AND FIELD SERVICES AND SPECIAL TESTING AND INSPECTION AGENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE AND SCHEDULE
ALL REQUIRED TESTS AND INSPECTIONS AND MAKE WORK ACCESSIBLE AND VISIBLE FOR SUCH. CONTRACTOR SHALL
REMEDY AND REPAIR ALL WORK AS REQUIRED, THAT HAS FAILED ANY REQUIRED TESTS AND INSPECTIONS, AT NO
ADDITIONAL COST TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO.  CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN A RECORD OF ALL TESTS AND INSPECTIONS,
AND ALL RESULTS AT THE PROJECT SITE, READY FOR INSPECTION BY THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE, UPON THEIR REQUEST.
01 43 26 -TESTING & INSPECTIONS:
A. PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MEET WITH THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER TO REVIEW
QUALITY CONTROL MEASURES FOR THE PROJECT AND ASSIGN RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TESTING AND INSPECTION SERVICES.
1. WHERE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS INDICATE SPECIFIC CONTRACTOR PROVIDED TESTING OR INSPECTION
REQUIREMENTS, THE COST FOR THESE SHALL BE A COMPONENT OF THE BASE BID.
2. ADDITIONAL SERVICES MAY BE DEEMED NECESSITY FOR TESTING OR INSPECTION SERVICES NOT PREVIOUSLY LISTED ON
THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
B. CITY OF SAN MATEO RESPONSIBILITIES:  WHERE QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES ARE INDICATED OR AGREED TO BE AN
OWNER RESPONSIBILITY, CITY OF SAN MATEO WILL ENGAGE A QUALIFIED TESTING AGENCY TO PERFORM THESE SERVICES.
1. CITY WILL FURNISH CONTRACTOR WITH NAMES, ADDRESSES, AND TELEPHONE NUMBERS OF TESTING AGENCIES
ENGAGED AND A DESCRIPTION OF TYPES OF TESTING AND INSPECTING THEY ARE ENGAGED TO PERFORM.
2. COSTS FOR RETESTING AND RE-INSPECTION CONSTRUCTION THAT REPLACES OR IS NECESSITATED BY WORK THAT
FAILED TO COMPLY WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS WILL BE CHARGED TO CONTRACTOR.
C. TESTS AND INSPECTIONS NOT EXPLICITLY ASSIGNED TO CITY OF SAN MATEO ARE CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY.
1. UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED, PROVIDE QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES SPECIFIED AND THOSE REQUIRED BY
AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION.
2. PERFORM QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES REQUIRED OF CONTRACTOR BY AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION, WHETHER
SPECIFIED OR NOT.
D. TESTING OR INSPECTION SERVICES DO NOT RELIEVE CONTRACTOR OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CONTRACT DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS.
E. ON COMPLETION OF TESTING, INSPECTION, SAMPLE TAKING, AND SIMILAR SERVICES, REPAIR DAMAGED CONSTRUCTION
AND RESTORE SUBSTRATES AND FINISHES.
1. PROTECT CONSTRUCTION EXPOSED BY OR FOR QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICE ACTIVITIES.
2. REPAIR AND PROTECTION ARE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY, REGARDLESS OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
FOR QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES.
01 45 00 - QUALITY CONTROL:
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE A QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM WHOSE ACTIVITIES, ACTIONS, AND PROCEDURES
PERFORMED BEFORE AND DURING EXECUTION OF THE WORK SHALL GUARD AGAINST DEFECTS AND DEFICIENCIES AND
SUBSTANTIATE THAT PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION WILL COMPLY WITH PROJECT REQUIREMENTS, CITY OF SAN MATEO
REQUESTS OR AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION. SEE NOTES FOR REQUIRED QUALITY-CONTROL PERSONNEL RETAINED BY
THE CONTRACTOR.
01 50 00 - TEMPORARY FACILITIES & CONTROLS
A. RESTRICT USE OF NOISEMAKING TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT TO HOURS THAT WILL MINIMIZE COMPLAINTS FROM PERSONS OR
FIRMS NEAR PROJECT SITE. COORDINATE OFF HOUR WORK WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
B. FOR ANY WORK TO BE PERFORMED OTHER THAN REGULAR BUSINESS HOURS, COORDINATE WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE
FOR SCHEDULING IN ADVANCE FOR ISSUANCE OF WRITTEN APPROVAL. ANY CONTRACTOR OF SUBCONTRACTOR WITHOUT
SUCH APPROVAL WILL BE ASKED TO LEAVE THE PREMISES, WITH NO COMPENSATION FOR LOST TIME.
C.KEEP PREMISES ORDERLY AND CLEAN.
D. RELOCATE ANY STORED PRODUCTS THAT INTERFERE WITH OPERATIONS OF THE CITY OR BUILDING MANAGER.
E. ERECT AND MAINTAIN DUSTPROOF PARTITIONS AND TEMPORARY ENCLOSURES TO LIMIT DUST AND DIRT MIGRATION AND TO
SEPARATE AREAS FROM FUMES AND NOISE.
F. KEEP DOORS TO THE SPACE BEING WORKED ON CLOSED AT ALL TIMES.
G. WHEN PAINTING OR STAINING, PROVIDE ADEQUATE VENTILATION USING FANS AND WINDOWS TO KEEP FUMES AND ODORS
OUT OF OTHER SPACES.
H. PROVIDE TYPE ABC DRY-CHEMICAL FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND LOCATE WHERE CONVENIENT AND AS REQUIRED BY LOCAL
LAWS. PROVIDE NOT LESS THAN ONE EXTINGUISHER ON EACH FLOOR AND ONE IN FIELD OFFICE.
I. REMOVE EACH TEMPORARY FACILITY WHEN NEED FOR ITS SERVICE HAS ENDED. REPAIR DAMAGED WORK, CLEAN EXPOSED
SURFACES AND REPLACE CONSTRUCTION THAT CANNOT BE SATISFACTORILY REPAIRED.
J. THE CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS AND THEIR EMPLOYEES SHALL BE SUBJECT TO AND SHALL AT ALL TIMES
CONFORM TO THE CITY'S RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE FACILITY, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND
CITY'S EMPLOYEES.  IF REQUIRED BY THE CITY, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FURNISH TO EMPLOYEES OF THE CONTRACTOR
AND SUBCONTRACTORS SPECIAL BADGES OR CARDS WHICH WILL IDENTIFY THEM AS EMPLOYEES AND ADMIT THEM TO
SUCH PORTIONS OF THE PREMISES AS MAY BE DESIGNATED BY THE CITY.
K. IF PROJECT REQUIRES DELIVERY OF EXCESSIVE QUANTITIES OF, OR LARGE FORMAT MATERIALS, CONTRACTOR SHALL
COORDINATE THE USE OF PREMISES WITH THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE AND PROVIDE COSTS FOR ALTERNATE MEANS OF
DELIVERY AND ACCESS. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN CITY'S APPROVAL FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ALTERNATE MEANS
OF DELIVERY PRIOR TO COMMENCING WITH WORK.
L. SMOKING OR VAPING ON THE PREMISES WILL NOT BE PERMITTED.
M.BUILDING ENTRY DOORS SHALL NOT BE PROPPED OPEN.
01 60 00 - PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS:
A. PROVIDE PRODUCTS THAT COMPLY WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, THAT ARE NEW, UNDAMAGED, AND IN PROPER
WORKING ORDER AT TIME OF INSTALLATION.
1. PROVIDE PRODUCTS COMPLETE WITH ACCESSORIES, TRIM, FINISH, FASTENERS, AND OTHER ITEMS NEEDED FOR A
COMPLETE AND OPERATING INSTALLATION AND INDICATED USE AND EFFECT, EVEN IF ALL ELEMENTS OF THE SYSTEM
ARE NOT INDICATED IN THE PROJECT DRAWINGS.
2. STANDARD PRODUCTS: UNLESS CUSTOM PRODUCTS OR NON-STANDARD OPTIONS ARE SPECIFIED, PROVIDE PRODUCTS
OF BOTH QUALITY AND TYPE THAT HAVE BEEN USED SUCCESSFULLY IN SIMILAR SITUATIONS ON EQUAL QUALITY
PROJECTS AND HAVE BEEN APPROVED FOR USE BY THE CITY.
3. CITY OF SAN MATEO RESERVES THE RIGHT TO LIMIT SELECTION TO PRODUCTS WITH WARRANTIES NOT IN CONFLICT WITH
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
4. WHERE PRODUCTS ARE ACCOMPANIED BY THE TERM “AS SELECTED OR TO BE DETERMINED (T.B.D.)”, CITY
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE SELECTION.
5. WHERE PRODUCTS ARE ACCOMPANIED BY THE TERM “MATCH SAMPLE”, SAMPLE TO BE MATCHED IS CITY
REPRESENTATIVE'S.
6. DESCRIPTIVE, PERFORMANCE, AND REFERENCE STANDARD REQUIREMENTS IN THE SPECIFICATIONS ESTABLISHED
“SALIENT CHARACTERISTICS” OF PRODUCTS
B. SUBSTITUTIONS: SUBSTITUTIONS WILL ONLY BE CONSIDERED UNDER ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS:
1. THAT THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT IS NOT AVAILABLE DUE TO LOCKOUT, STRIKE, BANKRUPTCY, PRODUCT DISCONTINUANCE,
ACTS OF GOD, AND THAT PROPOSED PRODUCT WILL MATCH OR EXCEED THE QUALITY OF THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT
WHILE EITHER PROVIDING THE OWNER WITH A COST SAVINGS OR EXPEDITING THE WORK.
2. WHEN A WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE IS SPECIFIED AND, IN THE JUDGEMENT OF THE CONTRACTOR OR PRODUCT
MANUFACTURER, THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT WILL NOT PROVIDE THE DESIRED PERFORMANCE.
01 73 00 - EXECUTION:
A.FIELD MEASUREMENTS: TAKE FIELD MEASUREMENTS AS REQUIRED TO FIT THE WORK PROPERLY. RECHECK
MEASUREMENTS BEFORE INSTALLING EACH PRODUCT. WHERE PORTIONS OF THE WORK ARE INDICATED TO FIT TO OTHER
CONSTRUCTION, VERIFY DIMENSIONS OF OTHER CONSTRUCTION BY FIELD MEASUREMENTS BEFORE FABRICATION,
PROCUREMENT AND / OR INSTALLATION OF SUCH.
B. SPACE REQUIREMENTS: VERIFY SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND DIMENSIONS OF ITEMS SHOWN DIAGRAMMATICALLY ON
DRAWINGS. NOTIFY CITY REPRESENTATIVE IMMEDIATELY OF ANY DISCREPANCIES OR CONFLICTS WITH REQUIREMENTS.
C. CONSTRUCTION LAYOUT: DURING THE PROGRESS OF THE WORK ESTABLISH BENCHMARKS, REFERENCE LINES AND
REFERENCE POINTS AND LEVELS AT EACH FLOOR AND AS OTHERWISE NECESSARY FOR THE GUIDANCE AND INFORMATION
OF EACH TRADE AND FOR THE FIELD VERIFICATION OR SPECIFIED CONSTRUCTION TOLERANCES. CALCULATE AND MEASURE
REQUIRED DIMENSIONS WITHIN INDICATED OR RECOGNIZED TOLERANCES.
1. LOCATE THE WORK AND COMPONENTS OF THE WORK ACCURATELY, IN CORRECT ALIGNMENT AND ELEVATION, AS
INDICATED.
2. MAKE VERTICAL WORK PLUMB AND MAKE HORIZONTAL WORK LEVEL.
3. CONCEAL PIPES, DUCTS, AND WIRING IN FINISHED AREAS, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED.
4. COORDINATE ALL WORK WITH EXISTING CONDITIONS TO REMAIN.
D. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INSTALLING PRODUCTS IN
APPLICATIONS INDICATED TO ENSURE PROPER INSTALLATION AND ENSURE PRODUCT WARRANTY.
E. ANCHORS AND FASTENERS: PROVIDE ANCHORS AND FASTENERS AS REQUIRED TO ANCHOR EACH COMPONENT SECURELY
IN PLACE, ACCURATELY LOCATED AND ALIGNED WITH OTHER PORTIONS OF THE WORK.
1. WHERE MOUNTING HEIGHTS ARE NOT INDICATED, MOUNT COMPONENTS AT HEIGHTS DIRECTED BY CITY
REPRESENTATIVE.
2. WHERE MOUNTING TYPES ARE NOT INDICATED, MOUNT COMPONENTS AS DIRECTED BY MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS.
F. START AND TEST EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING COMPONENTS TO CONFIRM PROPER OPERATION. REMOVE MALFUNCTIONING
UNITS, REPLACE WITH NEW UNITS, AND RETEST. COMPLY WITH ALL REQUIREMENTS FOR START-UP AND COMMISSIONING OF
COMPONENTS AS REQUIRED BY THE PROJECT DOCUMENTS AND LOCAL LAWS.
G. ADJUST OPERATING COMPONENTS FOR PROPER OPERATION WITHOUT BINDING. ADJUST EQUIPMENT FOR PROPER
OPERATION.
H. TEST EACH PIECE OF EQUIPMENT TO VERIFY PROPER OPERATION. TEST AND ADJUST CONTROLS AND SAFETY. REPLACE
DAMAGED AND MALFUNCTIONING CONTROLS AND EQUIPMENT. ENSURE ALL EQUIPMENT IS OPERATING WITHIN DESIGNED
PARAMETERS TO ENSURE EFFICIENT OPERATION.
I. PROVIDE FINAL PROTECTION AND MAINTAIN CONDITIONS THAT ENSURE INSTALLED WORK IS WITHOUT DAMAGE OR
DETERIORATION AT TIME OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.
1. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE AND RELATIVE HUMIDITY.
J. REPAIR OR REMOVE AND REPLACE DEFECTIVE CONSTRUCTION. RESTORE DAMAGED SUBSTRATES AND FINISHES.
K. REMOVE AND REPLACE DAMAGED SURFACES THAT ARE EXPOSED TO VIEW IF SURFACES CANNOT BE REPAIRED WITHOUT
VISIBLE EVIDENCE OF SUCH.
L. REPAIR COMPONENTS THAT DO NOT OPERATE PROPERLY. REMOVE AND REPLACE OPERATING COMPONENTS THAT CANNOT
BE REPAIRED.
01 71 33 - PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PREMISES:
A.DO NOT LOAD ANY PART OF THE WORK WITH WEIGHT THAT WILL DAMAGE OR ENDANGER THE SAFETY OF THE STRUCTURE
OR ANY PART THEREOF.
B. PROTECT THE EXISTING PREMISES, INCLUDING SITE AREAS TO REMAIN AGAINST DAMAGE DURING THE DURATION OF
CONSTRUCTION. REPAIR ANY DAMAGE CAUSED BY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
01 73 29 - EXECUTION: CUTTING AND PATCHING:
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL FAMILIARIZE THEMSELVES WITH THE EXISTING CONDITIONS AND STRUCTURE OF THE BUILDING PRIOR
TO THE START OF ANY CUTTING AND PATCHING ACTIVITIES. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS AT ANY TIME.
B. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH OPERATING ELEMENTS AND RELATED COMPONENTS IN A MANNER THAT RESULTS IN VISUAL
EVIDENCE OF CUTTING AND PATCHING.
1. RESTORE EXPOSED FINISHES OF PATCHED AREAS AND EXTENDED FINISH RESTORATION INTO RETAINED ADJOINING
CONSTRUCTION IN A MANNER THAT WILL ELIMINATE EVIDENCE OF PATCHING AND REFINISHING.
01 74 00 - EXECUTION: CLEANING
A.PROVIDE FINAL CLEANING. CONDUCT CLEANING AND WASTE-REMOVAL OPERATIONS TO COMPLY WITH LOCAL LAWS AND
ORDINANCES AND FEDERAL AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND ANTIPOLLUTION REGULATIONS.
B. CLEAN EACH SURFACE OR UNIT TO CONDITION EXPECTED IN AN AVERAGE COMMERCIAL BUILDING CLEANING AND
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURERS WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS.
C. CLEAN AND RE-LAMP ALL NEW LIGHT FIXTURES, LAMPS, GLOBES, AND REFLECTORS WHEN THESE FIXTURES WERE USED AS
LIGHT SOURCE DURING CONSTRUCTION. FOR EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES, REPLACE BURNED-OUT BULBS, AND THOSE
NOTICEABLY DIMMED BY HOURS OF USE.
D. LEAVE PROJECT CLEAN AND READY FOR OCCUPANCY.
01 78 23 CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUALS:
A. ASSEMBLE A COMPLETE SET OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE DATA INDICATING THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
EACH SYSTEM, SUB-SYSTEM, AND PIECE OF EQUIPMENT NOT PART OF A SYSTEM.
B. ORGANIZE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUALS INTO SUITABLE SETS OF MANAGEABLE SIZE. BIND AND INDEX DATA IN A
HEAVY-DUTY, 3-RING, VINYL-COVERED, LOOSE-LEAF BINDERS, IN THICKNESS NECESSARY TO ACCOMMODATE CONTENTS,
WITH POCKET INSIDE THE COVERS TO RECEIVE FOLDED OVERSIZED SHEETS. IDENTIFY EACH BINDER ON FRONT AND SPINE
WITH THE PRINTED TITLE “OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL,” PROJECT NAME, AND SUBJECT MATTER OF CONTENTS.
01 78 36 - CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - WARRANTY:
A.PRIOR TO ISSUE OF CERTIFICATE OF FINAL COMPLETION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXECUTE AND DELIVER TO THE CITY
REPRESENTATIVE A WRITTEN WARRANTY FOR THE WORK.
B. SHOULD ANY DEFECT DEVELOP OR BECOME APPARENT DURING THE WARRANTY PERIOD DUE TO IMPROPER MATERIALS OR
WORKMANSHIP, THE DEFECTS SHALL, UPON WRITTEN NOTICE, BE MADE GOOD BY THE CONTRACTOR WITHOUT ADDITIONAL
EXPENSE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, AND ANY OTHER WORK AFFECTED IN CORRECTING SUCH DEFECTS SHALL ALSO BE
MADE GOOD.
C. THE WARRANTY PERIOD SHALL BE AS AGREED UPON BETWEEN THE OWNER AND THE CONTRACTOR BUT SHALL NOT BE
LESS THAN TWO YEARS AFTER ACCEPTANCE OF THE CERTIFICATE OF FINAL COMPLETION.
1. THIS WARRANTY DOES NOT PRECLUDE SPECIAL OR ADDITIONAL WARRANTY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL
COMPONENTS OR SYSTEMS SPECIFIED ELSEWHERE.
2. THIS WARRANTY SHALL BE IN ADDITION TO, AND NOT A LIMITATION OF, OTHER RIGHTS THE OWNER MAY HAVE AGAINST
THE CONTRACTOR UNDER THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
01 78 39 CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - PROJECT RECORD DOCUMENTS:
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN AT THE JOBSITE ONE RECORD COPY OF THE DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS, CHANGE ORDERS
AND ADDENDA OR OTHER MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROJECT. CONTRACTOR SHALL MARK-UP AND KEEP CURRENT TO
RECORD CHANGES MADE DURING CONSTRUCTION.
1. SUBMIT TO CITY REPRESENTATIVE ALL RECORD DOCUMENTS AT THE END OF CONSTRUCTION.
2. SUBMIT TO CITY REPRESENTATIVE ONE COPY OF ALL “APPROVED” SHOP DRAWINGS, PRODUCT DATA SHEETS AND
SAMPLES.
NOTES:
1.
WATER CLOSET FLOW RATE 1.28 GALLONS PER FLUSH MAX., PROVIDE NEW CLEANOUT IN WALL ABOVE
TOILET.
2.
CUSTOM CAST RAMP SINK AND COUNTER AS MANUFACTURED BY SONOMA CAST STONE. 40" WIDE X 22"
DEEP X 2" THICK "EARTHCRETE". FINISH: "NUCRETE FORMAT". SINK SUPPORTED BY CUSTOM METAL
FRAME MANUFACTURER BY FINE STEEL PRODUCTS, SAN JOSE, CA.  STEEL TO BE ASTM A500 A/B.
COORDINATE LOCATION OF  FAUCET & SOAP DISPENSER PENETRATIONS.
3.
LAVATORY FAUCET MAX FLOW RATE 0.5 GPM AT 60 PSI.
4.
MODIFY PLUMBING LINES AND ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS AS NEEDED.
SPECIFICATIONS
WALL WAINSCOT:
MANUFACTURER:  NEOLITH. ESTATUARIO SILK E05 QUARTZ TILE PANELS. WALL PANELS 48" X 48", UP 8'-0” HIGH.
100% NATURAL MINERALS COMPOSITION. NEOLITH TO BE INSTALLED BY MANUFACTURER APPROVED CONTRACTOR
PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS. PREPARE PAINTED C.M.U. AS NEEDED FOR THINSET OF NEOLITH. AT
G.W.B. WALL INSTALL DUROCK OR HARDIE BACKER OVER G.W.B. PRIOR TO NEOLITH INSTALLATION
FLOOR & CURB FINISH:
MANUFACTURER:  DUR-A-FLEX . ACCELERA HQ SEAMLESS FLOORING SYSTEM. FLOORING SYSTEM CONSISTING OF
A SELF-LEVELING BASE COAT, WITH 2 COATS OF DECORATIVE QUARTZ BROADCAST AND A CLEAR TOPCOAT.
PARTITIONS:
MANUFACTURER:  ACCUTEC, SCRANTON SERIES.  TYPE: POLYMER HDPE SOLID PLASTIC FLOOR TO CEILING TO
MATCH EXISTING. ALL HARDWARE, BRACKETS, HINGES AND SHOES TO BE STAINLESS STEEL.  COLOR: FROM
MANUFACTURER'S STANDARDS.
 
PAINT SPECIFICATION
PAINT TO BE KELLY MOORE, VERIFY (E) COLORS WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE
ALL SURFACES TO RECEIVE PAINT TO BE CLEANED THOROUGHLY &  PREPARED PER PAINT
MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATION. IF (E) PAINT IS IN GOOD CONDITION (NO PEELING OR CHALKING)
PRIMER COAT MAYBE OMITTED.
EXTERIOR WOOD TRIM & SIDING
1 COAT: PRIMER KM 295 KEL BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM 1245 ACRYSHIELD 100 % ACRYLIC LOW SHEEN
EXTERIOR METAL DOORS
1 COAT: PRIMER 5725 DTM ACRYLIC METAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM 2888 DURA - POXY HP ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI - GLOSS ENAMEL
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING
EXTERIOR CMU
1 COAT:  PRIME WITH KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS OF KM 1245 ACRYSHIELD 100% ACRYLIC LOW SHEEN
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING
INTERIOR WOOD
1 COAT: KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM DURA-POXY HP 2888 ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI-GLOSS ENAMEL
 
&nbsp;
148 of&nbsp;386

--- page 149 ---
8'-11"
8'-11"
12'-0"
REMOVE
DOOR &
FRAME
REMOVE
DOOR &
FRAME
REMOVE ALL
PARTITIONS,
TYP.
PREP
FLOOR FOR
(N) FINISH,
TYP.
REMOVE ALL
PLUMBING
FIXTURES,
TYP.
REMOVE ALL
ACCESSORIES,
TYP.
REMOVE
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
REMOVE PORTION
OF C.M.U.
WAINSCOT, SEE
DETAIL 4 SHEET 4
REMOVE&
MODIFY POST
AS NEEDED
COVER
PLATE AT
(E) OPNG,
TYPICAL
(N) DOOR &
FRAME
(N) DOOR &
FRAME
18" URINAL
PARTITION
TO RELO.
POST
EPOXY
FLOOR
FINISH,
TYPICAL
 TOILET
PARTITIONS
COVER PLATE
AT (E) OPNG,
TYPICAL
X 48
30
X 48
30
TOILET
PARTITION
DOOR &
JAMB
NOTES:
1.
SEE DETAIL 5 & 8 SHEET 3 FOR FIXTURES & ACCESSORIES MOUNTING HEIGHTS & LOCATIONS
2.
SEE DETAIL 2 SHEET 4 FOR EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
3.
SEE DETAIL 5 SHEET 4 FOR DRINKING FOUNTAIN MOUNTING HEIGHTS & CLEARANCES
4.
IN WOMEN'S ACCESSIBLE STALL MOUNT STALL DOOR ON WALL & OMIT PARTITION UPRIGHT AS
NEEDED TO MAXIMIZE STALL DOOR STRIKE SIDE CLEARANCE
DRINKING FOUNTAIN & RAILS, SEE
DETAIL 4/4 FOR MOUNTING HEIGHTS
& CLEARANCES
ELEC. STRIKE POWER
SUPPLY PANEL, SEE
SPECS
PAINT C.M.U.
SCREEN WALL
TO MATCH (E),
TYPICAL OF 2
60" DIA
TURNING
RADIUS
"T" TURNING
SPACE PER
CBC
11B-304.3.2
X 60
60
X 60
60
X 36
48
X 36
48
SURFACE
MOUNTED
HINGE
18"
MIN.
18"
MIN.
REMOVE
TIMERED LOCKS
REMOVE CLG.
MOUNTED
LIGHT
FIXTURE
(E) ROOF
OVERHANG
REMOVE
WALL
MOUNTED
LIGHT
FIXTURES
NEW CLG.
MOUNTED LED
LIGHT FIXTURE
(E) ROOF
OVERHANG
NEW WALL
MOUNTED LED
LIGHT FIXTURE
LIGHT FIXTURE SPECIFICATIONS:
CEILING MOUNTED LED LIGHT FIXTURE:
HARRIS LIGHTING ROUGH SERVICE   LUMINAIRE MODEL 100-LED-4K4
WALL MOUNTED LED LIGHT FIXTURE:
WF HARRIS LIGHTING MODEL 30-LED-1K-FC-HW- 120V-TPS
TOILET SEAT
COVER
DISPENSER
SOAP
DISPENSER
HAND
DRYER
LAVATORY
SIDE VIEW
TOILET & GRAB BARS
SIDE VIEW
FINISH
FLOOR
± 0' - 0"
30"
40" TO T.O. LEVER
40" TO T.O. SENSOR
6"
MAX.
8"
MIN.
29" MIN. CLR.
34" MAX. TO T.O. SINK
27" MIN. CLR.
12"
MAX.
42"
MIN.
54" MIN.
24"
MIN.
8"
19" MIN.
TO OUTLET
33" TO 36" A.F.F.
TO T.O. BAR
KEYNOTES
1.
CBC 11B-309 (1) FAUCET CONTROLS & OPERATING MECHANISMS OF FIXTURES OR ACCESSORIES SHALL BE OPERABLE W/ ONE HAND IN ACCORDANCE W/ THIS CHAPTER AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE
TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST.  THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS SHALL BE 5 LBS. MAX.  LEVER OPERATED, PUSH TYPE, AND ELECTRONICALLY
CONTROLLED MECHANISMS ARE EXAMPLES OF ACCEPTABLE DESIGNS.  SELF-CLOSING VALVES AREA ALLOWED IF THE FACET REMAINS OPEN FOR AT LEAST 10 SECONDS.  SINKS SHALL BE 6.5"
DEEP MAX (11B-606.7).
2.
INSTALL PROTECTIVE COVERING INSULATION ON ALL EXPOSED PIPES BELOW SINKS & LAVATORIES TO COMPLY W/ STATE & LOCAL CODES.  THERE SHALL BE NO SHARP OR ABRASIVE SURFACES
UNDER SINKS & LAVATORIES.  (CBC 11B-606.5)
3.
1.25" MIN. / 2" MAX DIA. GRAB BAR.  (CBC 11B-609.8)
4.
ANCHOR ALL FIXTURES & ACCESSORIES PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS.
5.
NEW  HANDLES, PULLS, LATCHES, LOCKS, LIGHT SWITCHES, & OTHER OPERABLE PARTS ON DOORS & GATES SHALL COMPLY W/ CBC SECTION 11B-309.4  OPERABLE PARTS OF SUCH HARDWARE
SHALL BE 34" MIN. & 44" MAX. ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR.  (CBC 11B-404.2.7)
4
4
1
2
4
3
CC SS
S
OO
O
G
S
9" MIN.
CLR.
11"
MIN.
17"
MAX.
9"
30"
MIN. CLR.
13 1/2"
MIN.
URINAL
SIDE VIEW
URINAL & PARTITIONS
FRONT VIEW
15" MIN.
15" MIN.
1
4
WASTE
RECEPTACLE
30"
7"
MEN
WOMEN
WOMEN
TACTILE  /
VISUAL SIGN
DOOR FRAME
AT LATCH SIDE
WOMEN VISUAL SIGN
MEN VISUAL SIGN
1.
1/4" THICK VISUAL RESTROOM SIGNS TO BE CENTERED
HORIZONTALLY ON DOOR.
2.
COMBINED TACTILE & VISUAL ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM SIGNS
TO BE LOCATED ON SAME WALL AS DOOR & ADJACENT TO
LATCH SIDE. PROVIDE 18" MIN. X 18" MIN. CLEAR SPACE IN
FRONT OF SIGN & CENTERED ON SIGN. IF THIS
CONFIGURATION IS NOT POSSIBLE, LOCATE SIGN ON
NEAREST ADJACENT WALL, PREFERABLY ON THE RIGHT SIDE.
3.
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY W/ CBC 11B-703.2 & 11B-703.3. THE
THICKNESS OF THE GEOMETRIC SYMBOL SHALL BE
NON-GLARE FINISH & CONTRAST IN COLOR W/ THE DOOR.
EDGES OF GEOMETRIC SYMBOL TO BE ROUNDED OR EASED
AT 1/16" MIN. OR CHAMFERED AT 1/8" MAX.
FINISH FLOOR
± 0' - 0"
6"
MIN.
9"
1/8" - 1/4" RAD.
VERTICES, TYP.
48" MIN. TO BASELINE
OF LOWEST TACTILE CHARACTER
60" MAX. TO BASELINE
OF HIGHEST TACTILE CHARACTER
12" TYP.
12" DIA. TYP.
58" - 60" TO CENTERLINE OF SIGN
GRADE 2 BRAILLE TEXT
TO BE POSITIONED NOT
LESS THAN 3/8" BELOW
CORRESPONDING TEXT
AND NOT LESS THAN
3/8" ABOVE BASE OF
SIGN AND COMPLY
WITH CBC 11B-703.3.
TACTILE CHARACTERS SHALL BE SANS SERIF FONT (ALL UPPERCASE) AND HAVE A MINIMUM HEIGHT
OF 5/8" AND A MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF 2".  FONT WIDTH OF UPPERCASE "O" SHALL BE MINIMUM 60%
AND MAXIMUM 110% HEIGHT OF UPPERCASE "I". CHARACTERS SHALL BE RAISED 1/32" FROM SIGN
SURFACE & CONTRAST IN COLOR WITH THE BACKGROUND. CBC 11B-703.2.
MANEUVERING SPACE WITH
SIDE-OPENING DOOR
(CBC FIG. 11B-604.8.1.1.2)
56" MIN. @ WALL
MOUNT TOILET
60"
MIN. CLR.
17 1
2"
60" MIN
MANEUVERING
DOOR PERMITTED TO SWING
OVER HATCHED PORTION OF
MANEUVERING SPACE
CLEARANCE
4"
MAX.
5
ACCESSIBLE TOILET COMPARTMENT CLEARANCES
1/4" = 1' - 0"
NOTE:
1. STALL DOOR TO HAVE,  LOOP HANDLES, EACH SIDE OF DOOR,  PADDLE TYPE LOCK & SELF CLOSING HINGES (CBC
SECTION 11B-309.4).
2.  HARDWARE AT 34" MIN. & 44" MAX. ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR.  (CBC 11B-404.2.7)
3. ALL CLEAR FLOOR AREAS MUST BE LEVEL WITH SLOPE IN ANY DIRECTION NOT TO EXCEED 1.75%.
4. PARTITION TOE CLEARANCE 9" MIN. ABOVE FLOOR & 6" MIN BEYOND COMPARTMENT, EXCLUSIVE OF PARTITION
SUPPORTS.
36" MIN.
WHEN DOOR
SWINGS IN
34" MIN
CLEAR
OPNG.
1.
11B-602.1: DRINKING FOUNTAINS SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-307 & 11B-602.
2.
11B-602.2: CLEAR FLOOR SPACE PER CBC 11B-305 AND KNEE & TOE SPACE PER 11B-306: SEE SIDE VIEW 5B.
3.
11B-602.3: OPERABLE PARTS SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-309. CONTROLS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND & SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO
ACTIVATE OPERABLE PARTS SHALL BE 5 LBS. MAX. THE FLOW OF WATER SHALL BE ACTIVATED BY A LEVER OR BUTTON THAT IS FRONT OR SIDE MOUNTED WITHIN 6" OF THE FRONT EDGE OF THE FOUNTAIN.
4.
11B-602.4: SPOUT OUTLETS SHALL BE 36" MAX. ABOVE FINISHED FLOOR AT LOW DRINKING FOUNTAIN.
5.
11B-602.5: THE SPOUT SHALL BE LOCATED 15" MIN. FROM THE VERTICAL SUPPORT AND 5" MAX. FROM THE FRONT EDGE OF THE UNIT, INCLUDING BUMPERS. SEE SIDE VIEW 5B.
6.
11B-602.6: THE SPOUT SHALL PROVIDE A FLOW OF WATER 4" HIGH MIN. AND SHALL BE LOCATED 5" MAX. FROM THE FRONT OF THE UNIT. THE ANGLE OF THE WATER STREAM SHALL BE MEASURED HORIZONTALLY RELATIVE TO THE
FRONT FACE OF THE UNIT. WHERE SPOUTS ARE LOCATED LESS THAN 3" PF THE FRONT OF THE UNIT, THE ANGLE OF THE WATER STREAM SHALL BE 30° MAXIMUM. WHERE SPOUTS ARE LOCATE BETWEEN 3"-5" MAX. FROM THE
FRONT OF THE UNIT, THE ANGLE OF WATER STREAM SHALL BE 15° MAX.
7.
11B-602.7: SPOUT OUTLETS FOR FOUNTAINS FOR STANDING PERSONS SHALL BE 38" MIN. AND 43" MAX. ABOVE THE FINISH FLOOR.
8.
11B-602.8: WALL AND POST-MOUNTED CANTILEVERED UNITS SHALL BE 18" MIN & 19" MAX. IN DEPTH.
9.
11B-602.9: DRINKING FOUNTAINS SHALL BE WITHIN ALCOVES, BETWEEN WING WALLS/GUARDRAIL BARRIERS, AND SHALL NOT ENCROACH INTO PEDESTRIAN WAYS. THE PROTECTED AREA WITHIN WHICH A UNIT IS LOCATED SHALL
BE 32" WIDE MIN. AND 18" DEEP MIN., AND SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-305.7. WHEN USED, WING WALLS OR GUARDRAIL BARRIERS SHALL PROJECT HORIZONTALLY AT LEAST AS FAR AS THE UNIT AND TO WITHIN 6" VERTICALLY
FROM THE FINISH FLOOR.
10. INSTALL BLOCKING TO WALL AS REQUIRED TO ANCHOR D.F. & GUARD RAILS. G.C. TO VERIFY THAT ALL DIMENSIONS & CLEARANCES ARE COMPLIANT WITH CBC 11B-305-306.
16"
15"
1'-3"
MATCH
FOUNTAIN
DEPTH
30"X48" CLEAR
FLOOR SPACE
B
C
A
CLEAR SPACE TO BE
CENTERED OF LOW
DRINKING FOUNTAIN
PLAN VIEW
SPOUT
36"
38" - 43" A.F.F.
36" MAX.
27" MIN.
30" CLR.
FLR. SPACE
A
B
C
36" MAX.
KNEE SPACE
8"
MIN
11"
MIN.
MATCH
FOUNTAIN
DEPTH
15"
MIN.
9"
MIN.
6"
MAX.
TOE SPACE
18" MIN.
19" MAX.
6"
FOUNTAIN
BEYOND
TOE RAIL
1
DEMOLITION PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
FLOOR PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
DEMOLITION REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
4
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
B
E
B
UR
LAV
WC
WC
8
ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM FIXTURE MOUNTING DETAILS
1/2" = 1'-0"
User = PSM
Date = Friday, December 17, 2021 7:07:29 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21923 San Mateo - Casanova\Con Docs\CAD Set\Casanova Sheets v1.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
CASANOVA PARK
RESTROOM REMODEL
2021
PROJECT # 469030
3
F
F
7
RESTROOM SIGNAGE
1'=1'-0"
DF
H
H
A
C
B
D
6
ACCESSIBLE DRINKING FOUNTAIN
1/2" = 1'-0"
ELECTRICAL NOTES:
1. RE-CONNECT LIGHT CONTROLS TO CAL-SENSE SYSTEM, VERIFY WITH CITY
REPRESENTATIVE
2. REUSE (E) CIRCUITS FOR NEW DOOR ELECTRONIC DOOR STRIKES
3. PROVIDE NEW CIRCUITS AS NEEDED FOR NEW ELECTRICAL TO PLUMBING FIXTURES
AND ACCESSORIES
4. AT INTERIOR LIGHTS PROVIDE MOTION SENSORS
5. EXTERIOR LIGHTS PROVIDE PHOTOCELL
LAV
1
1
1
1
&nbsp;
149 of&nbsp;386

--- page 150 ---
MEN
WOMEN
WOMEN
MEN
SIGNAGE
SEE DETAIL
3/6, TYPICAL
NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
RAILS
PAINT (E)
C.M.U., TYPICAL
PAINT (E) WOOD
FASCIA
INSTALL FACE COVER
PLATE WHERE
ELECTRICAL BOX WAS
REMOVED,
TYP. OF 2
PAINT(E)
C.M.U., TYPICAL
PAINT (E)
GUTTER &
DOWNSPOUT
PAINT (E)
C.M.U. TYPICAL
PAINT (E)
METAL DOOR &
FRAME
PAINT (E) WOOD
FASCIA
PAINT (E) VENTS,
TYPICAL
MODIFY WAINSCOT BEHIND D.F., SEE
DETAIL 4 SHEET 4
NOTE: ALL PAINT COLORS TO MATCH EXISTING
33" TO 36" A.F.F.
TO T.O. BAR
2'-0"
1'-0"
6" CLR.
(N) NEOLITH
WAINSCOT
OVER (E)
C.M.U`
(N) NEOLITH
WAINSCOT
OVER (E)
C.M.U`
(N) NEOLITH
WAINSCOT
OVER (E)
G.W.B.
PAINT (E) G.W.B.
ABOVE
WAINSCOT
PAINT (E) C.M.U.
ABOVE
WAINSCOT
PAINT (E) C.M.U.
ABOVE
WAINSCOT
PAINT (E)
BEAM S
30"
(N) FLOOR
FINISH
OVER (E)
CONCRETE
CURB
1'-512"
8'-0"
NOTE: SEE DETAIL 5 & 7 SHEET 3 FOR FIXTURES &
ACCESSORIES MOUNTING HEIGHTS & LOCATIONS
REPAIR OR REPLACE
BROCK GLASS
BLOCK UNIT
40" MAX.
TO  B.O.
REFLECTIVE
SURFACE
36"
1'-0"
(N) NEOLITH
WAINSCOT
OVER (E)
G.W.B.
PAINT (E) C.M.U.
ABOVE
WAINSCOT
(N) FLOOR FINISH
OVER (E)
CONCRETE CURB
2'-0"
(N) NEOLITH WAINSCOT
OVER BOTH SIDES & END OF
(E) C.M.U. WALL
PAINT (E) URINAL
SCREEN POST TO
REMAIN
1'-512"
8'-0"
PAINT (E)
BEAM
INSTALL C.M.U. & CAP TO
MATCH EXISTING WAINSCOT
REMOVE C.M.U. WAINSCOT
CAP & TOP COURSE
DEMOLITION
NEW
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
3/8" = 1'-0"
5
WAINSCOT ELEVATIONS
3/8" = 1'-0"
A
WH
WC
C
User = PSM
Date = Friday, December 17, 2021 7:07:29 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21923 San Mateo - Casanova\Con Docs\CAD Set\Casanova Sheets v1.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
CASANOVA PARK
RESTROOM REMODEL
2021
PROJECT # 469030
4
WC
1
WOMENS - INTERIOR ELEVATIONS
3/8" = 1'-0"
LAV
G
E
F
D
B
H
WH
WC
UR
LAV
A
C
G
E
D
3
MENS - INTERIOR ELEVATION
3/8" = 1'-0"
NORTH
EAST
SOUTH
WEST
A
B
C
D
&nbsp;
150 of&nbsp;386

--- page 151 ---
EXHIBIT B 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS 
ARTICLE 18 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
18.01 Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
18.02 Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
A. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
B. 
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
C. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease.  
D. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions. 
E. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
F. 
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
G. 
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
18.03 If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City. 
18.04 Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; 
or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
151 of 386

--- page 152 ---
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or City. 
ARTICLE 19 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS  
19.01 The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
A. 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, 
or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in 
the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used). 
B. 
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it.  
C. 
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City. 
19.02 Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
A. 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear. 
B. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City’s site. 
19.03 Claims Made Policies 
A. 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. 
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. 
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
3. 
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
152 of 386

--- page 153 ---
4. 
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
5. 
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
19.04 Acceptability of Insurers  
A. 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
19.05 Waiver of Subrogation  
A. 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
19.06 Verification of Coverage  
A. 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time. 
19.07 Subcontractors  
A. 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
19.08 Surety Bonds.  
A. 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. 
Performance Bond 
2. 
Payment Bond 
3. 
Maintenance Bond 
B. 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
153 of 386

--- page 154 ---
19.09 Special Risks or Circumstances.   
A. 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
154 of 386

--- page 155 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-3125
File ID: 22-6687
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Off-Site Plan Review and Certified Access Specialist Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the professional consultant services agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for off-site plan 
review and certified access specialist (CASp) services in the amount of $100,000 for a new agreement total of $199,000, 
and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On June 30, 2022, the City Manager approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for Off-Site Plan Review and 
Certified Access Specialist (CASp) Services in an amount not-to-exceed $99,000. The services CSG provides include the 
review of plans, calculations, and reports for compliance with adopted building codes and the provision of technical 
advice, reports, and correspondence related to plan check services. These specialized services are typically provided by a 
structural engineer, and due to the consistently high volume of plan submittals and ongoing staff constraints, the 
Community Development Department (CDD) will exhaust the contracted amount more quickly than anticipated. This 
amendment will allow CDD to maintain current levels of service and makes changes to clarify the scope of work. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The additional $100,000 in costs resulting from this amendment can be absorbed within the fiscal year 2022-23 
operational budget for the Community Development Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to a professional services agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1
Att 2 – Agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc.
STAFF CONTACT
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst
balexander@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7209
155 of 386

--- page 156 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR
PLAN REVIEW AND CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST (CASp) SERVICES
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
CSG Consultants, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Off-Site Plan Review and Certified 
Access Specialist (CASp) Services (“Agreement”) on June 30, 2022; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective October 3, 2022 to 
modify the title and scope of work of this Agreement;
WHEREAS, the value of the original Agreement was $99,000, Amendment No. 1 adds $100,000 
for a not to exceed amount of $199,000.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1. Title of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for Professional Consultant Services for Plan Review 
and Certified Access Specialist (CASp) Services”
2. Section 5 of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed within 30 days 
of receipt of CONSULTANT’s invoice.  In consideration for the full performance of the services 
set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed 
$199,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.”
3. Exhibit A of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Plan Review
Review plans, calculations and reports submitted for building permits for the compliance of 
adopted building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, energy and green building codes with 
San Mateo local amendments; provide technical advice to City staff, contractors, architects, 
developers, and the general public; advise building and fire inspectors on building safety and 
code issues; prepare reports and correspondence related to plan check services.”
4. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
156 of 386

--- page 157 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. have executed this 
Amendment on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Drew Corbett
City Manager
City of San Mateo
Date
Cyrus Kianpour, P.E., P.L.S.
President
CSG Consultants, Inc.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
157 of 386

--- page 158 ---
Professional Services 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
AGREEMENT WITH CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
OFF-SITE PLAN REVIEW AND CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST (CASp) SERVICES 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and CSG Consultants, Inc. , a California Corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 550 
Pilgrim Drive Foster City, CA 94404. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain off-site plan review and Certified Access Specialist (CASp)
services hereinafter described. 
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these offsite plan review and CASp
services by reason of its qualifications and experience performing such services and CONSULTANT has 
offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
06/30/2022
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
158 of 386

--- page 159 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2022 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2022. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed within 30 days of receipt of 
CONSULTANT’s invoice.  In consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, 
CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount NTE $99,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B 
to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
159 of 386

--- page 160 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
160 of 386

--- page 161 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
161 of 386

--- page 162 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Mike Titsworth 
Building Official 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
CSG Consultants, Inc. 
Attn:  Cyrus Kianpour, President 
550 Pilgrim Drive 
Foster City, CA 94404 
Email: Contracts@csgengr.com 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
162 of 386

--- page 163 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
163 of 386

--- page 164 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG Consultants, Inc. executed this Agreement 
the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Drew Corbett 
City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Cyrus Kianpour, P.E., P.L.S. 
President 
CSG Consultants, Inc. 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
7/1/2022
7/1/2022
7/1/2022
164 of 386

--- page 165 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
Off-Site Plan Review 
Review plans, calculations and reports submitted for building permits for the compliance of adopted 
building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, energy and green building codes with San Mateo local 
amendments; provide technical advice to City staff; advise building and fire inspectors on building 
safety and code issues; prepare reports and correspondence related to plan check services.  
 
Certified Access Specialist (CASp) Services 
Review plans and specifications for CASp requirements and adhere to the city’s standard turnaround 
time or otherwise mutually agreed upon; make field inspections of construction sites for compliance 
with CASp and other accessibility code requirements. Provide technical advice to City staff, contractors, 
architects, developers, and the general public; advise building plan checkers and inspectors on 
accessibility issues as they arise; provide education materials and training.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
165 of 386

--- page 166 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
Through the term of this agreement, we will compensate CONTRACTOR at an Hourly Rate of $131.00 
not to exceed $99,000 for fiscal year 2022-2023. 
 
Hourly rates include overhead costs including, but not limited to, salaries, benefits, Workers Compensation Insurance, and 
office expenses. Should the scope of work change or circumstances develop which necessitate special handling, CSG will 
notify the City prior to proceeding. On July 1 of each year following the contract year, CSG will initiate a rate increase 
based on the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers: Professional Services for the applicable region. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
166 of 386

--- page 167 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
167 of 386

--- page 168 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 5/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: D8931196-D7C9-49ED-ACA0-D8D418944CB9
168 of 386

--- page 169 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 20-5150
File ID: 22-6659
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Office of Traffic Safety – Grant Spending Plan 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a grant spending plan and appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic 
Enforcement Program grant totaling $130,000, and authorize the Police Chief to accept and execute the agreement and 
expend the funds.
BACKGROUND:
For several years, the federal and state governments, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
California Office of Traffic Safety, have awarded yearly grants to the San Mateo Police Department. The grants come with 
very specific spending criteria and require a resolution to approve the spending plans and appropriate the funds. 
The success of this program hinges on high-profile enforcement and public awareness. The grant funds will enable the 
Police Department to conduct DUI checkpoints, DUI saturation patrols, targeted speed enforcement, red light 
enforcement, distracted driver enforcement, and other specialized enforcement programs. The funds will assist the Police 
Department in focusing its efforts on the primary collision factors (PCF’s) that lead to collisions. 
The strategies used by the City of San Mateo will involve the “Three E’s” of traffic safety – Education, Enforcement, and 
Engineering, to further our City’s efforts towards reducing injury accidents. Specifically, for the Education component, 
SMPD traffic officers will conduct further safety talks for seniors that began in 2013. Additional safety talks will be geared 
towards school age children regarding pedestrian and bicycle safety. For the Enforcement component, SMPD traffic 
officers will continue targeted enforcement at problem locations where injury collisions, especially auto-pedestrian 
collisions, have occurred in the past. This included pedestrian sting operations at uncontrolled intersections with 
crosswalks that netted significant citations and favorable media coverage. For the Engineering component, SMPD will 
continue collaboration with the Public Works Department regarding engineering and design responses to problem 
locations. This involves meetings with Public Works personnel twice a month for study and implementation of new 
strategies to improve pedestrian safety. 
The Office of Traffic Safety funds will be used to staff overtime details for traffic enforcement and distracted driving 
enforcement with the objective of decreasing injury collisions and the threat of auto-pedestrian collisions. The funds will 
also be utilized to address DUI drivers through the staffing of DUI checkpoints and DUI saturation details. 
SMPD will also continue its collaboration with county-wide Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) programs 
whereby officers work with other San Mateo County law enforcement agencies as part of a traffic enforcement strike team 
that focuses on two cities at a time conducting high-profile enforcement at high-collision locations. SMPD officers will 
continue proactive traffic enforcement during National Distracted Driving Awareness Month in April, the Click it or Ticket 
169 of 386

--- page 170 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Campaign in May, and the AVOID (DUI Enforcement) operations throughout the year. 
Finally, to comply with grant requirements, SMPD will issue press releases, including using NIXLE, Nextdoor, Twitter, 
Instagram, and Facebook over the grant term calling attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes in 
furtherance of the grant and to enhance overall traffic safety. These will include a press release announcing the grant 
award and other press releases that call attention to proactive enforcement efforts against DUIs, basic traffic and 
motorcycle safety, and strategies to combat future auto-pedestrian collisions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) grant requires no matching funds and covers all 
contract and equipment expenditures. There is no impact to the General Fund and once appropriated, $130,000 in funds 
will be added to the Police Grant (Fund 20) budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Grant Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Lethin, Captain
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
Craig Collom, Traffic Sergeant
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7742
170 of 386

--- page 171 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROPRIATING FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING THE CHIEF OF POLICE TO EXECUTE THE GRANT AGREEMENT TO 
EXPEND THE OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY SELECTIVE TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM GRANT FUNDS 
TOTALING $130,000
WHEREAS, the Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) has awarded the City a grant totaling $130,000 through its 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) for local law enforcement traffic control/safety purposes; and
WHEREAS, OTS requires that recipient cities adopt resolutions to appropriate funds, which would be 
reimbursed through the grant, and authorize the expenditure of STEP grant monies; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, approval of this agreement is not a 
project subject to California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines because it can be seen with certainty that 
entry into this grant agreement will not have a significant effect on the environment
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The appropriation of $130,000 in Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant funds to the police 
grant fund budget is approved. 
2.
The grant spending plan is approved, and the Chief of Police is authorized to accept and execute the 
Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant agreement and to expend the 
Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant funds for traffic control/safety 
purposes.
171 of 386

--- page 172 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 1 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
 
GRANT NUMBER 
 PT23061 
 
 
 
1. GRANT TITLE 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) 
2. NAME OF AGENCY    
3. Grant Period 
San Mateo 
From: 
To: 
10/01/2022 
09/30/2023 
4. AGENCY UNIT TO ADMINISTER GRANT 
San Mateo Police Department 
5. GRANT DESCRIPTION 
Best practice strategies will be conducted to reduce the number of persons killed and injured in crashes 
involving alcohol and other primary crash factors. The funded strategies may include impaired driving 
enforcement, enforcement operations focusing on primary crash factors, distracted driving, night-time seat belt 
enforcement, special enforcement operations encouraging motorcycle safety, enforcement and public 
awareness in areas with a high number of bicycle and pedestrian crashes, and educational programs. These 
strategies are designed to earn media attention thus enhancing the overall deterrent effect. 
6. Federal Funds Allocated Under This Agreement Shall Not Exceed: 
$130,000.00 
7. TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following which are by 
this reference made a part of the Agreement: 
 
Schedule A – Problem Statement, Goals and Objectives and Method of Procedure 
 
Schedule B – Detailed Budget Estimate and Sub-Budget Estimate (if applicable)  
 
Schedule B-1 – Budget Narrative and Sub-Budget Narrative (if applicable) 
 
Exhibit A – Certifications and Assurances 
 
Exhibit B* – OTS Grant Program Manual 
 
Exhibit C – Grant Electronic Management System (GEMS) Access 
*Items shown with an asterisk (*), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this agreement as if 
attached hereto. 
  These documents can be viewed at the OTS home web page under Grants:  www.ots.ca.gov. 
We, the officials named below, hereby swear under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that we 
are duly authorized to legally bind the Grant recipient to the above described Grant terms and conditions. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
8. Approval Signatures 
A. GRANT DIRECTOR 
B. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Craig Collom 
 
Traffic Sergeant 
 
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7742 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
ADDRESS: Ed Barberini 
 
Chief 
 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7600 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                 
                   
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
C. FISCAL OFFICIAL 
 
D. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
ADDRESS: Richard Lee 
 
Finance Director 
 
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7102 
 
330 W 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
ADDRESS: Barbara Rooney 
 
Director 
 
barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov 
 
(916) 509-3030 
 
2208 Kausen Drive, Suite 300 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
                  
                   
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Craig COllom (Sep 12, 2022 12:43 PDT)
Craig COllom
Sep 12, 2022
172 of 386

--- page 173 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
E. ACCOUNTING OFFICER OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
9. SAM INFORMATION 
NAME:  Carolyn Vu 
 
SAM #: 
REGISTERED  
ADDRESS: 
CITY:  
ZIP+4: 
R92YFGVKF6B4 
 
330 west 20th Ave 
San Mateo 
94403-1338 
ADDRESS:  2208 Kausen Drive, Suite 300 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
 
 
 
10. PROJECTED EXPENDITURES 
FUND 
CFDA 
ITEM/APPROPRIATION 
F.Y. 
CHAPTER 
STATUTE 
PROJECTED 
EXPENDITURES 
164AL-23 
20.608 
0521-0890-101 
2022 
43/22 
BA/22 
$100,000.00 
402PT-23 
20.600 
0521-0890-101 
2022 
43/22 
BA/22 
$30,000.00 
  
AGREEMENT 
TOTAL  
 
$130,000.00 
AMOUNT ENCUMBERED BY THIS DOCUMENT 
I CERTIFY upon my own personal knowledge that the budgeted 
funds for the current budget year are available for the period and 
purpose of the expenditure stated above. 
 
$130,000.00 
PRIOR AMOUNT ENCUMBERED FOR THIS 
AGREEMENT 
 
$ 0.00 
OTS ACCOUNTING OFFICER’S SIGNATURE 
DATE SIGNED 
TOTAL AMOUNT ENCUMBERED TO DATE 
  
 
 
$130,000.00 
 
 
 
173 of 386

--- page 174 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT23061 
 
1. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
The area to be served by this grant is the City of San Mateo, the second largest city in San Mateo County, 
which is located between San Francisco and San Jose on the San Francisco Peninsula.  The City has a 
residential population of approximately 105,661 (US Census Estimate for July 1, 2021), and a significant 
daytime transitory population of employees and customers working at or frequenting many of the businesses 
and shopping districts in the City. Included among this is a vibrant downtown shopping area that employs 
many workers and attracts many visitors. It is surrounded by many large, multi-story, apartment and 
condominium buildings that are occupied by primarily elderly citizens. This is reflected by a higher 
percentage than the state average in persons over the age of 65 (San Mateo: 15.4%; statewide: 14.8% - US 
Census ). In other parts of the City, large scale new developments are under way, attracting additional future 
residents to the City of San Mateo, which will significantly add to the City’s population in the coming years. 
 
In the past, San Mateo experienced an alarming increase in the number of elderly victims killed and injured 
in traffic crashes, both as drivers and pedestrians, with the highest increase being among pedestrians. In 
2014, the City of San Mateo had 54 crashes involving pedestrians with one (1) pedestrian fatality. In 2015, 
the City of San Mateo had 54 crashes involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2016, the City of San Mateo 
had 41 crashes involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2017, the City of San Mateo had 56 crashes 
involving pedestrians and two (2) fatalities. In 2018, the City of San Mateo had 66 crashes involving 
pedestrians and one (1) fatalities. In 2019, the City of San Mateo had 63 crashes involving pedestrians and 
one (1) fatality.  In 2020, the City of San Mateo had 36 crashes involving pedestrians and one (1) fatality.  In 
2021, the City of San Mateo had 27 crashes involving pedestrians and one (0) fatality.   
 
The Department's goals include focusing efforts on reducing pedestrian fatalities to zero and to further 
reduce all crashes involving pedestrians. This can only be achieved through constant and continuous 
awareness messaging, ongoing educational programs, and unwavering enforcement.  
 
In 2014 the San Mateo Police Department made 426 DUI related arrests. The City had 82 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 14 of these crashes had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
In 2015, the San Mateo Police Department had 278 DUI related arrests. The City had 61 DUI related vehicle 
crashes with eight (8) injuries and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2016, the San Mateo Police Department had 276 DUI related arrests. The City had 79 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 22 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2017, the San Mateo Police Department had 229 DUI related arrests. The City had 100 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 23 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2018, the San Mateo Police Department had 150 DUI related arrests. The City had 107 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 33 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2019, the San Mateo Police Department had 134 DUI related arrests. The City had 93 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 26 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2020, the San Mateo Police Department had 164 DUI related arrests. The City had 84 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 24 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2021, the San Mateo Police Department had 140 DUI related arrests. The City had 79 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 20 of these crashes had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
The rise in DUI arrests, coupled with the decrease in DUI related crashes, are cause for attention and 
careful analysis. The Department is committed to addressing these factors and to employ better education, 
relentless enforcement, strong prosecution, directed enforcement, and additional enforcement programs. 
Department goals include continuing to have zero DUI related fatalities and further reducing the occurrences 
174 of 386

--- page 175 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 4 of 17 
 
of drunk driving. The San Mateo Police Department knows from experience that these achievements can 
only be maintained through unwavering and relentless enforcement, continuing deterrent operations such as 
DUI checkpoints, and continues public messaging and awareness programs.  
  
2. PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
A. Goals: 
1. Reduce the number of persons killed in traffic crashes. 
2. Reduce the number of persons injured in traffic crashes. 
3. Reduce the number of pedestrians killed in traffic crashes. 
4. Reduce the number of pedestrians injured in traffic crashes. 
5. Reduce the number of bicyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
6. Reduce the number of bicyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
7. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol-involved crashes. 
8. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol-involved crashes. 
9. Reduce the number of persons killed in drug-involved crashes. 
10. Reduce the number of persons injured in drug-involved crashes. 
11. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
12. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
13. Reduce the number of motorcyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
14. Reduce the number of motorcyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
15. Reduce hit & run fatal crashes. 
16. Reduce hit & run injury crashes. 
17. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) fatal crashes. 
18. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) injury crashes. 
B. Objectives: 
Target Number 
1. Issue a press release announcing the kick-off of the grant by November 15.  The 
kick-off press releases and media advisories, alerts, and materials must be 
emailed to the OTS Public Information Officer at pio@ots.ca.gov, and copied to 
your OTS Coordinator, for approval 14 days prior to the issuance date of the 
release. 
1 
2. Participate and report data (as required) in the following campaigns; Quarter 1: 
National Walk to School Day, National Teen Driver Safety Week, NHTSA Winter 
Mobilization; Quarter 3: National Distracted Driving Awareness Month, National 
Motorcycle Safety Month, National Bicycle Safety Month, National Click it or Ticket 
Mobilization; Quarter 4: NHTSA Summer Mobilization, National Child Passenger 
Safety Week, and California's Pedestrian Safety Month. 
10 
3. Develop (by December 31) and/or maintain a “DUI BOLO” program to notify patrol 
and traffic officers to be on the lookout for identified repeat DUI offenders with a 
suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI convictions. Updated DUI BOLOs 
should be distributed to patrol and traffic officers monthly. 
12 
4. Send law enforcement personnel to the NHTSA Standardized Field Sobriety 
Testing (SFST) (minimum 16 hours) POST-certified training. 
2 
5. Send law enforcement personnel to the NHTSA Advanced Roadside Impaired 
Driving Enforcement (ARIDE) 16 hour POST-certified training. 
2 
6. Send law enforcement personnel to the Drug Recognition Expert (DRE) training. 
2 
7. Send law enforcement personnel to the DRE Recertification training. 
1 
8. Send law enforcement personnel to SFST Instructor training. 
2 
9. Conduct DUI/DL Checkpoints. A minimum of 1 checkpoint should be conducted 
during the NHTSA Winter Mobilization and 1 during the Summer Mobilization. To 
enhance the overall deterrent effect and promote high visibility, it is recommended 
the grantee issue an advance press release and conduct social media activity for 
each checkpoint. For combination DUI/DL checkpoints, departments should issue 
press releases that mention DL's will be checked at the DUI/DL checkpoint. Signs 
for DUI/DL checkpoints should read "DUI/Driver's License Checkpoint Ahead." 
OTS does not fund or support independent DL checkpoints. Only on an exception 
basis and with OTS pre-approval will OTS fund checkpoints that begin prior to 
5 
175 of 386

--- page 176 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 5 of 17 
 
1800 hours. When possible, DUI/DL Checkpoint screeners should be DRE- or 
ARIDE-trained. 
10. Conduct DUI Saturation Patrol operation(s). 
15 
11. Conduct Traffic Enforcement operation(s), including but not limited to, primary 
crash factor violations. 
10 
12. Conduct highly publicized Distracted Driving enforcement operation(s) targeting 
drivers using hand held cell phones and texting. 
6 
13. Conduct highly publicized Motorcycle Safety enforcement operation(s) in areas or 
during events with a high number of motorcycle incidents or crashes resulting from 
unsafe speed, DUI, following too closely, unsafe lane changes, improper turning, 
and other primary crash factor violations by motorcyclists and other drivers. 
2 
14. Conduct highly publicized pedestrian and/or bicycle enforcement operation(s) in 
areas or during events with a high number of pedestrian and/or bicycle crashes 
resulting from violations made by pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers. 
4 
15. Conduct Traffic Safety educational presentation(s) with an effort to reach 
community members. Note: Presentation(s) may include topics such as distracted 
driving, DUI, speed, bicycle and pedestrian safety, seat belts and child passenger 
safety. 
2 
16. Participate in highly visible collaborative DUI Enforcement operations. 
5 
17. Participate in highly visible collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations. 
2 
18. Send law enforcement personnel to DUI Checkpoint Planning and Management 
training. 
2 
3. METHOD OF PROCEDURE 
A. Phase 1 – Program Preparation (1st Quarter of Grant Year) 
 
The department will develop operational plans to implement the “best practice” strategies 
outlined in the objectives section. 
 
All training needed to implement the program should be conducted this quarter. 
 
All grant related purchases needed to implement the program should be made this quarter.  
 
In order to develop/maintain the “DUI BOLOs,” research will be conducted to identify the “worst of 
the worst” repeat DUI offenders with a suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI 
convictions. The Hot Sheets may include the driver’s name, last known address, DOB, 
description, current license status, and the number of times suspended or revoked for DUI. DUI 
BOLOs should be updated and distributed to traffic and patrol officers at least monthly.  
 
Implementation of the STEP grant activities will be accomplished by deploying personnel at high 
crash locations. 
  
 
Media RequirementsIssue a press release approved by the OTS PIO announcing the kick-off of 
the grant by November 15, but no sooner than October 1. The kick-off release must be approved 
by the OTS PIO and only distributed after the grant is fully signed and executed. If you are 
unable to meet the November 15 deadline to issue a kick-off press release, communicate 
reasons to your OTS coordinator and OTS PIO.  
 
B. Phase 2 – Program Operations (Throughout Grant Year) 
 
The department will work to create media opportunities throughout the grant period to call 
attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes. 
Media Requirements 
 
The following requirements are for all grant-related activities: 
 
Send all media advisories, alerts, videos, graphics, artwork, posters, radio/PSA/video scripts, 
storyboards, digital and/or print educational materials for grant-related activities to the OTS PIO 
at pio@ots.ca.gov for approval and copy your OTS coordinator. Optimum lead time would be 7 
days before the scheduled release but at least 3 business days prior to the scheduled release 
date for review and approval is appreciated. 
 
The OTS PIO is responsible for the approval of the design and content of materials. The agency 
understands OTS PIO approval is not authorizing approval of budget expenditure or cost. Any 
cost approvals must come from the Coordinator. 
176 of 386

--- page 177 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 6 of 17 
 
 
Pre-approval is not required when using any OTS-supplied template for media advisories, press 
releases, social media graphics, videos or posts, or any other OTS-supplied educational material. 
However, copy the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and your OTS coordinator when any material is 
distributed to the media and public, such as a press release, educational material, or link to social 
media post. The OTS-supplied kick-off press release templates and any kickoff press releases 
are an exception to this policy and require prior approval before distribution to the media and 
public. 
 
If an OTS-supplied template, educational material, social media graphic, post or video is 
substantially changed, the changes shall be sent to the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov for approval 
and copy to your OTS Coordinator. Optimum lead time would be 7 days prior to the scheduled 
release date, but at least 3 business days prior to the scheduled release date for review and 
approval is appreciated. 
 
Press releases, social media posts and alerts on platforms such as NextDoor and Nixle reporting 
immediate and time-sensitive grant activities (e.g. enforcement operations, day of event 
highlights or announcements, event invites) are exempt from the OTS PIO approval process. The 
OTS PIO and your Coordinator should still be notified when the grant-related activity is 
happening (e.g. car seat checks, bicycle rodeos, community presentations, DUI checkpoints, 
etc.).  
 
Enforcement activities such as warrant and probation sweeps, court stings, etc. that are 
embargoed or could impact operations by publicizing in advance are exempt from the PIO 
approval process. However, announcements and results of activities should still be copied to the 
OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and your Coordinator with embargoed date and time or with 
“INTERNAL ONLY: DO NOT RELEASE” message in subject line of email.  
 
Any earned or paid media campaigns for TV, radio, digital or social media that are part of a 
specific grant objective, using OTS grant funds, or designed and developed using contractual 
services by a subgrantee, requires prior approval. Please send to the OTS PIO at 
pio@ots.ca.gov for approval and copy your grant coordinator at least 3 business days prior to the 
scheduled release date. 
 
Social media posts highlighting state or national traffic safety campaigns (Distracted Driving 
Month, Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month, etc.), enforcement operations (DUI checkpoints, 
etc.), or any other grant-related activity such as Bicycle rodeos, presentations, or events, are 
highly encouraged but do not require prior approval. 
 
Submit a draft or rough-cut of all digital, printed, recorded or video material (brochures, posters, 
scripts, artwork, trailer graphics, digital graphics, social posts connected to an earned or paid 
media campaign grant objective) to the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS 
Coordinator for approval prior to the production or duplication. 
 
Use the following standard language in all press, media, and printed materials, space permitting: 
Funding for this program was provided by a grant from the California Office of Traffic Safety, 
through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
 
Space permitting, include the OTS logo on all grant-funded print materials, graphics and paid or 
earned social media campaign grant objective; consult your OTS Coordinator for specifics, 
format-appropriate logos, or if space does not permit the use of the OTS logo. 
 
Email the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS Coordinator at least 21 days in 
advance, or when first confirmed, a short description of any significant grant-related traffic safety 
event or program, particularly events that are highly publicized beforehand with anticipated media 
coverage so OTS has sufficient notice to arrange for attendance and/or participation in the event. 
If unable to attend, email the OTS PIO and coordinator brief highlights and/or results, including 
any media coverage (broadcast, digital, print) of event within 7 days following significant grant-
related event or program. Media and program highlights are to be reflected in QPRs. 
 
Any press releases, work plans, scripts, storyboards, artwork, graphics, videos or any 
educational or informational materials that received PIO approval in a prior grant year needs to 
be resubmitted for approval in the current grant year.  
 
Contact the OTS PIO or your OTS Coordinator for consultation when changes from any of the 
above requirements might be warranted.  
 
C. Phase 3 – Data Collection & Reporting (Throughout Grant Year) 
1. Prepare and submit invoice claims (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30) 
177 of 386

--- page 178 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 7 of 17 
 
2. Prepare and submit Quarterly Performance Reports (QPR) (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and 
October 30) 
 
Collect and report quarterly, appropriate data that supports the progress of goals and objectives. 
 
Provide a brief list of activity conducted, procurement of grant-funded items, and significant 
media activities.  Include status of grant-funded personnel, status of contracts, challenges, or 
special accomplishments. 
 
Provide a brief summary of quarterly accomplishments and explanations for objectives not 
completed or plans for upcoming activities. 
 
Collect, analyze and report statistical data relating to the grant goals and objectives.   
 
4. METHOD OF EVALUATION 
Using the data compiled during the grant, the Grant Director will complete the “Final Evaluation” section in 
the fourth/final Quarterly Performance Report (QPR). The Final Evaluation should provide a brief summary 
of the grant’s accomplishments, challenges and significant activities. This narrative should also include 
whether goals and objectives were met, exceeded, or an explanation of why objectives were not completed. 
5. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 
This program has full administrative support, and every effort will be made to continue the grant activities 
after grant conclusion. 
 
 
 
178 of 386

--- page 179 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 8 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT23061 
 
FUND NUMBER 
CATALOG 
NUMBER (CFDA) 
FUND DESCRIPTION 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
164AL-23 
20.608 
Minimum Penalties for Repeat 
Offenders for Driving While 
Intoxicated 
$100,000.00 
402PT-23 
20.600 
State and Community Highway 
Safety 
$30,000.00 
 
COST CATEGORY 
FUND 
NUMBER 
UNIT COST OR 
RATE 
UNITS 
TOTAL COST TO 
GRANT 
A. PERSONNEL COSTS 
 
 
 
 
 
Straight Time 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Overtime 
 
 
 
 
DUI/DL Checkpoints 
164AL-23 
$12,000.00 
5 
$60,000.00 
DUI Saturation Patrols 
164AL-23 
$2,000.00 
15 
$30,000.00 
Collaborative DUI Enforcement 
164AL-23 
$2,000.00 
5 
$10,000.00 
Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-23 
$1,000.00 
10 
$10,000.00 
Distracted Driving 
402PT-23 
$1,000.00 
6 
$6,000.00 
Motorcycle Safety 
402PT-23 
$1,000.00 
2 
$2,000.00 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement 
402PT-23 
$1,000.00 
4 
$4,000.00 
Traffic Safety Education 
402PT-23 
$1,000.00 
1 
$1,000.00 
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-23 
$2,000.00 
2 
$4,000.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$127,000.00 
B. TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel 
402PT-23 
$3,000.00 
1 
$3,000.00 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$3,000.00 
C. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
D. EQUIPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
E. OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
F. INDIRECT COSTS 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
GRANT TOTAL 
 
 
 
$130,000.00 
 
 
179 of 386

--- page 180 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 9 of 17 
 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B-1 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT23061 
 
BUDGET NARRATIVE 
PERSONNEL COSTS 
DUI/DL Checkpoints - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
DUI Saturation Patrols - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Collaborative DUI Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative DUI Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel  
Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Distracted Driving - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Motorcycle Safety - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by 
appropriate department personnel.  
Traffic Safety Education - Overtime for grant funded traffic safety presentations or campaigns conducted by 
appropriate department personnel.  
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel  
 
TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel - Costs are included for appropriate staff to attend conferences and training events 
supporting the grant goals and objectives and/or traffic safety.  Local mileage for grant activities and 
meetings is included.  Anticipated travel may include the OTS Law Enforcement Forum.  All conferences, 
seminars or training not specifically identified in the Budget Narrative must be approved by OTS. All travel 
claimed must be at the agency approved rate.  Per Diem may not be claimed for meals provided at 
conferences when registration fees are paid with OTS grant funds. 
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 -   
EQUIPMENT 
-  
OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
 -  
 
INDIRECT COSTS 
 -   
STATEMENTS/DISCLAIMERS 
Program Income default statement: 
There will be no program income generated from this grant. 
 
Enforcement Grant Quota Disclaimer: 
Nothing in this “agreement” shall be interpreted as a requirement, formal or informal, that a particular law 
enforcement officer issue a specified or predetermined number of citations in pursuance of the goals and 
objectives here under. 
 
CHP Grant Program Disclaimer: 
The OTS grant funded activities must be separate from the CHP Cannabis Tax Fund Grant Program 
activities and maintained under separate accounting/tracking/other codes (example: the same DUI 
checkpoint may not be funded by both the CHP and the OTS). 
 
 
180 of 386

--- page 181 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 10 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Exhibit A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT23061 
 
CERTIFICATIONS AND ASSURANCES FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANTS 
(23 U.S.C. Chapter 4; Sec. 1906, Pub. L. 109-59, As Amended By Sec. 4011, Pub. L. 114-94) 
 
The officials named on the grant agreement, certify by way of signature on the grant agreement signature page, 
that the Grantee Agency complies with all applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and directives and State 
rules, guidelines, policies, and laws in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding. 
Applicable provisions include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 – Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended 
 
Sec. 1906, Pub. L. 109-59, as amended by Sec. 4011, Pub. L. 114-94 
 
23 CFR part 1300 – Uniform Procedures for State Highway Safety Grant Programs 
 
2 CFR part 200 – Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements 
for Federal Awards 
 
2 CFR part 1201 – Department of Transportation, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost 
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State highway safety agency will comply with all Federal statutes and implementing regulations relating to 
nondiscrimination (“Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities”). These include but are not limited to: 
 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., 78 stat. 252), (prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin) and 49 CFR part 21; 
 
The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, (42 
U.S.C. 4601), (prohibits unfair treatment of persons displaced or whose property has been 
acquired because of Federal or Federal-aid programs and projects); 
 
Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, (23 U.S.C. 324 et seq.), and Title IX of the Education 
Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686) (prohibit discrimination 
on the basis of sex); 
 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. 794 et seq.), as amended, (prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of disability) and 49 CFR part 27; 
 
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), (prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of age); 
 
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, (Pub. L. 100-209), (broadens scope, coverage 
and applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 
and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, by expanding the definition of the terms 
"programs or activities" to include all of the programs or activities of the Federal aid recipients, 
subrecipients and contractors, whether such programs or activities are Federally-funded or 
not); 
 
Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) (prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and private 
transportation systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing) and 49 CFR parts 
37 and 38; 
 
Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority 
Populations and Low-Income Populations (prevents discrimination against minority populations 
by discouraging programs, policies, and activities with disproportionately high and adverse human 
health or environmental effects on minority and low-income populations); and 
 
Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English 
Proficiency (guards against Title VI national origin discrimination/discrimination because of limited 
English proficiency (LEP) by ensuring that funding recipients take reasonable steps to ensure that 
LEP persons have meaningful access to programs (70 FR 74087-74100). 
 
The Subgrantee- 
181 of 386

--- page 182 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 11 of 17 
 
 
Will take all measures necessary to ensure that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds 
of race, color, national origin, disability, sex, age, limited English proficiency, or membership in any 
other class protected by Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities, be excluded from participation in, be 
denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any of its programs or 
activities, so long as any portion of the program is Federally-assisted; 
 
Will administer the program in a manner that reasonably ensures that any of its subrecipients, 
contractors, subcontractors, and consultants receiving Federal financial assistance under this 
program will comply with all requirements of the Non- Discrimination Authorities identified in this 
Assurance; 
 
Agrees to comply (and require its subrecipients, contractors, subcontractors, and consultants to 
comply) with all applicable provisions of law or regulation governing US DOT’s or NHTSA’s access to 
records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staff, and to cooperate and comply with 
any program or compliance reviews, and/or complaint investigations conducted by US DOT or 
NHTSA under any Federal Nondiscrimination Authority; 
 
Acknowledges that the United States has a right to seek judicial enforcement with regard to any matter 
arising under these Non-Discrimination Authorities and this Assurance; 
 
Agrees to insert in all contracts and funding agreements with other State or private entities the 
following clause: 
o “During the performance of this contract/funding agreement, the contractor/funding recipient 
agrees— 
 
a. To comply with all Federal nondiscrimination laws and regulations, as may be amended 
from time to time; 
b. Not to participate directly or indirectly in the discrimination prohibited by any Federal non-
discrimination law or regulation, as set forth in appendix B of 49 CFR part 2l and herein; 
c. To permit access to its books, records, accounts, other sources of information, and its facilities 
as required by the State highway safety office, US DOT or NHTSA; 
d. That, in event a contractor/funding recipient fails to comply with any nondiscrimination 
provisions in this contract/funding agreement, the State highway safety agency will have the 
right to impose such contract/agreement sanctions as it or NHTSA determine are 
appropriate, including but not limited to withholding payments to the contractor/funding 
recipient under the contract/agreement until the contractor/funding recipient complies; 
and/or cancelling, terminating, or suspending a contract or funding agreement, in whole or in 
part; and 
e. To insert this clause, including paragraphs (a) through (e), in every subcontract and 
subagreement and in every solicitation for a subcontract or sub-agreement, that receives 
Federal funds under this program. 
 
THE DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT OF 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8103) 
The Subgrantee will provide a drug-free workplace by: 
a. Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, 
possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's workplace and specifying 
the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition; 
b. Establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about: 
1. The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 
2. The grantee's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; 
3. Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; 
4. The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug violations occurring in the 
workplace; 
5. Making it a requirement that each employee engaged in the performance of the grant be 
given a copy of the statement required by paragraph (a); 
c. Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of 
employment under the grant, the employee will – 
1. Abide by the terms of the statement; 
2. Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in 
the workplace no later than five days after such conviction; 
d. Notifying the agency within ten days after receiving notice under subparagraph (c)(2) from an 
182 of 386

--- page 183 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 12 of 17 
 
employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction; 
e. Taking one of the following actions, within 30 days of receiving notice under 
subparagraph (c)(2), with respect to any employee who is so convicted – 
1. Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including 
termination; 
2. Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or 
rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law 
enforcement, or other appropriate agency; 
f. Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through 
implementation of all of the paragraphs above. 
 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY (HATCH ACT) 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State will comply with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508), which limits the political activities 
of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds. 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING FEDERAL LOBBYING 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements 
 
The signed certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: 
 
1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to 
any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member 
of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in 
connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making 
of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, 
continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement; 
2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for 
influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, 
an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with 
this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and 
submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its 
instructions; 
3. The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award 
documents for all sub-award at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under 
grant, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose 
accordingly. 
 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was 
made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this 
transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification 
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. 
 
RESTRICTION ON STATE LOBBYING 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
None of the funds under this program will be used for any activity specifically designed to urge or influence a 
State or local legislator to favor or oppose the adoption of any specific legislative proposal pending before 
any State or local legislative body. Such activities include both direct and indirect (e.g., "grassroots") lobbying 
activities, with one exception. This does not preclude a State official whose salary is supported with NHTSA 
funds from engaging in direct communications with State or local legislative officials, in accordance with 
customary State practice, even if such communications urge legislative officials to favor or oppose the 
adoption of a specific pending legislative proposal. 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
 
183 of 386

--- page 184 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 13 of 17 
 
Instructions for Primary Tier Participant Certification (States) 
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary tier participant is providing the 
certification set out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial 
of participation in this covered transaction. The prospective primary tier participant shall submit an 
explanation of why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will 
be considered in connection with the department or agency's determination whether to enter into this 
transaction. However, failure of the prospective primary tier participant to furnish a certification or an 
explanation shall disqualify such person from participation in this transaction. 
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed 
when the department or agency determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that 
the prospective primary tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to 
other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this 
transaction for cause or default or may pursue suspension or debarment. 
4. The prospective primary tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or 
agency to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary tier participant learns 
its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed 
circumstances. 
5. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, 
principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
You may contact the department or agency to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance in 
obtaining a copy of those regulations. 
6. The prospective primary tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed 
covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction 
with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, 
suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, 
unless authorized by the department or agency entering into this transaction. 
7. The prospective primary tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include 
the clause titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the "Certification 
Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered 
Transaction,” provided by the department or agency entering into this covered transaction, without 
modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered 
transactions and will require lower tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a 
lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, 
debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows 
that the certification is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not 
suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the 
eligibility of its principals, as well as the eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each 
participant may, but is not required to, check the System for Award Management Exclusions website 
(https://www.sam.gov/). 
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records 
in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and 
information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent 
person in the ordinary course of business dealings. 
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for 
debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded 
from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, 
the department or agency may terminate the transaction for cause or default. 
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Tier Covered 
Transactions 
 
(1) The prospective primary tier participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that it and its 
principals: 
(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily 
excluded from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency; 
(b) Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment 
184 of 386

--- page 185 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 14 of 17 
 
rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, 
attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State or local) transaction or contract under a public 
transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, 
bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property; 
(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental 
entity (Federal, State or Local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph 
(1)(b) of this certification; and 
(d) Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public 
transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default. 
 
(2) Where the prospective primary tier participant is unable to certify to any of the Statements in this 
certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. 
 
Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification 
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the 
certification set out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.  
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed 
when this transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant 
knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal 
government, the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available 
remedies, including suspension or debarment. 
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which 
this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its 
certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed 
circumstances. 
4. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, 
principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
You may contact the person to whom this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of 
those regulations. 
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed 
covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered 
transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, 
debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered 
transaction, unless authorized by the department or agency with which this transaction originated. 
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the 
clause titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the "Certification Regarding 
Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion – Lower Tier Covered Transaction," 
without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered 
transactions and will require lower tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a 
lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, 
debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows 
that the certification is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not 
suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the 
eligibility of its principals, as well as the eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each 
participant may, but is not required to, check the System for Award Management Exclusions website 
(https://www.sam.gov/). 
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records 
in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and 
information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent 
person in the ordinary course of business dealings. 
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for 
debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded 
from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, 
the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, 
including suspension or debarment. 
 
185 of 386

--- page 186 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 15 of 17 
 
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion -- Lower Tier Covered 
Transactions: 
 
1. The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its 
principals is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or 
voluntarily excluded from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency. 
2. Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this 
certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. 
 
BUY AMERICA ACT 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State and each subrecipient will comply with the Buy America requirement (23 U.S.C. 313) when 
purchasing items using Federal funds. Buy America requires a State, or subrecipient, to purchase with 
Federal funds only steel, iron and manufactured products produced in the United States, unless the Secretary 
of Transportation determines that such domestically produced items would be inconsistent with the public 
interest, that such materials are not reasonably available and of a satisfactory quality, or that inclusion of 
domestic materials will increase the cost of the overall project contract by more than 25 percent. In order to 
use Federal funds to purchase foreign produced items, the State must submit a waiver request that provides 
an adequate basis and justification for approval by the Secretary of Transportation. 
 
PROHIBITION ON USING GRANT FUNDS TO CHECK FOR HELMET USAGE 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State and each subrecipient will not use 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 grant funds for programs to check helmet 
usage or to create checkpoints that specifically target motorcyclists. 
 
POLICY ON SEAT BELT USE 
In accordance with Executive Order 13043, Increasing Seat Belt Use in the United States, dated April 16, 
1997, the Grantee is encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs for its 
employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally-owned vehicles. The National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is responsible for providing leadership and guidance in support of this 
Presidential initiative. For information and resources on traffic safety programs and policies for employers, 
please contact the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS), a public-private partnership dedicated to 
improving the traffic safety practices of employers and employees. You can download information on seat belt 
programs, costs of motor vehicle crashes to employers, and other traffic safety initiatives at 
www.trafficsafety.org. The NHTSA website (www.nhtsa.gov) also provides information on statistics, 
campaigns, and program evaluations and references. 
 
POLICY ON BANNING TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING 
In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, 
and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, States are encouraged to adopt and enforce 
workplace safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted driving, including policies to ban text 
messaging while driving company-owned or rented vehicles, Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles, 
or privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work on or behalf 
of the Government. States are also encouraged to conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner 
commensurate with the size of the business, such as establishment of new rules and programs or re-
evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and education, awareness, and other 
outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. 
 
 
 
186 of 386

--- page 187 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADDING OR UPDATING GEMS USERS 
 
 
1. Each agency is allowed a total of FIVE (5) GEMS Users.  
 
2. GEMS Users listed on this form will be authorized to login to GEMS to complete and submit Quarterly 
Performance Reports (QPRs) and reimbursement claims. 
 
3. Complete the form if adding, removing or editing a GEMS user(s). 
 
4. The Grant Director must sign this form and return it with the Grant Agreement. 
 
 
 
CURRENT GEMS USER(S) 
 
 
1. Craig Collom 
 
Title: Traffic Sergeant 
Media Contact:  Yes 
Phone: (650) 522-7742 
 
Email: ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
2. Julie Dalton 
 
Title: Admin Tech 
Media Contact:  No 
Phone: (650) 522-7612 
 
Email: jdalton@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
3. Anthony Riccardi 
 
Title: Sergeant 
Media Contact:  No 
Phone: (650) 522-7689 
 
Email: ariccardi@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
OTS-55 Grant Electronic Management System (GEMS) Access 
Exhibit C 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT23061 
GRANT DETAILS 
 
Grant Number:  
PT23061 
Agency Name: 
San Mateo Police Department 
Grant Title:  
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) 
Agreement Total: 
$130,000.00 
Authorizing Official: 
Ed Barberini 
Fiscal Official:    
Richard Lee 
Grant Director:   
Craig Collom 
187 of 386

--- page 188 ---
9/12/2022 9:13:25 AM 
 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
Complete the below information if adding, removing or editing a GEMS user(s)  
 
GEMS User 1 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access {{[] c12_es_:signer1}}   
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes  
No 
{{UserName1_es_:signer1                               }} 
{{UserTitle1_es_:signer1                                     }}  
Name 
Job Title 
{{UserEmail1_es_:signer1                                }} {{UserPhone1_es_:signer1                                 }} 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 2 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
{{UserName2_es_:signer1                               }} 
{{UserTitle2_es_:signer1                                     }} 
Name 
Job Title 
{{UserEmail2_es_:signer1                                }} {{UserPhone2_es_:signer1                                 }} 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 3 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
{{UserName3_es_:signer1                               }} 
{{UserTitle3_es_:signer1                                     }} 
Name 
Job Title 
{{UserEmail3_es_:signer1                                }} {{UserPhone3_es_:signer1                                 }} 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 4 
 Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
{{UserName4_es_:signer1                               }} 
{{UserTitle4_es_:signer1                                     }} 
 
Name 
 
Job Title 
{{UserEmail4_es_:signer1                                }} {{UserPhone4_es_:signer1                                 }} 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 5 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access    
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
{{UserName5_es_:signer1                               }} 
{{UserTitle5_es_:signer1                                     }} 
Name 
Job Title 
{{UserEmail5_es_:signer1                                }} {{UserPhone5_es_:signer1                                 }} 
 
Email address 
 
Phone number 
Form completed by:   Date:  
 
As a signatory I hereby authorize the listed individual(s) to represent and have GEMS user access. 
  
{{Name1_es_:signer2:fullname                           }} 
Signature  
Name 
  
Grant Director 
Date 
Title 
 
Craig Collom (Sep 12, 2022 12:40 PDT)
Craig Collom

Anthony Riccardi
Sep 12, 2022
Craig COllom (Sep 12, 2022 12:43 PDT)
Craig COllom
Craig COllom
Sep 12, 2022
188 of 386

--- page 189 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 22-6552
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Draft Goals, Policies and Actions for the Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, Noise, and Conservation, Open Space 
and Recreation Elements – General Plan Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on the Goals, Policies and Actions for the Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, Noise, and 
Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Elements that should be included in the City’s Draft General Plan Update. 
BACKGROUND:
The City’s General Plan Update (GPU) kicked off in fall 2018 and began with a series of visioning workshops and community 
meetings. From April 2019 through July 2022, the General Plan team held a series of meetings and events to establish the 
General Plan study areas, create the range of alternatives, confirm the draft alternatives, and receive feedback and 
direction on the preferred land use and circulation scenarios from the community and, ultimately, the City Council. More 
information about the background information, technical reports and the outreach process, including meeting materials 
and recordings, is available online at www.StriveSanMateo.org. 
To date, the Strive San Mateo General Plan Update has focused on crafting a shared community vision for what San Mateo 
can be in the year 2040, as well as selecting the preferred land use and circulation scenarios that will guide the General 
Plan’s Land Use and Circulation Elements. The process is now shifting to focus on the goals and policies for all of the 
elements in the City’s General Plan Update. The draft goals, policies and actions were published on July 21, 2022, which 
started the next phase of community outreach and engagement (public meetings, workshops and pop-up events, as well 
as an online survey), that wrapped up at the beginning of October 2022. 
Goals, Policies and Actions Definitions
A General Plan is made up of a Vision Statement and Guiding Principles (Attachment 1), text describing key issues of 
community interest, and goals and policies that outline how the City will address those issues, as well as accompanying 
maps and diagrams. Each element of the General Plan will also include a concise set of background narratives that 
summarizes current conditions in the city related to the topics in the element. The background information will provide 
context about the issues the City plans to address, explaining why there is policy direction so that the the policies and 
actions can focus on how the City can achieve a desired outcome.  The narratives also provide information on other 
regulations and/or agencies that influence the decisionmaking process.  Together, these items paint a picture of the 
community’s future. A draft outline of how the complete Draft General Plan will be composed is included in Attachment 2.  
It is anticipated that this outline will continue to evolve and be refined based on ongoing community input and Council 
direction before the Draft General Plan document is published in 2023.  
189 of 386

--- page 190 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Each element, or chapter, of the General Plan addresses a specific set of topics and includes a set of goals, policies and 
actions that provide a blueprint for how the City will address these issues. Definitions of what a goal, policy, and action are, 
and the relationship between them, is as follows:
•
A goal is a description of a general desired result that the City seeks to create through the implementation of its 
General Plan.
•
A policy is a specific statement that regulates activities in the City, guides decisionmaking and directs ongoing 
efforts as the City works to achieve a goal. General Plan policies establish standards that will be used by City staff, 
Planning Commission, and City Council when pritoritizing initiatives and expenditures, reviewing and approving 
new development, and in related City decisionmaking.  
•
An action is a measure, procedure, or technique intended to help reach a specified goal or implement a policy. The 
actions in the General Plan will serve as a to-do list for City staff and officials to implement the goals and policies of 
the General Plan. 
These goals, policies, and actions provide guidance to the City on how to direct change and manage resources over the 
next 20 years.
The basis for the draft goals, policies and actions started with the City’s current General Plan. However, there are many 
important policy topics in which the current General Plan policy language is outdated and/or no longer adequately 
responds to current conditions and other present-day issues. To address these policy gaps, the General Plan team drafted 
updated versions by refining existing policies and creating new ones, as needed. The process to prepare the goals policies 
and actions that go into the GPU includes the following steps:
•
Review of existing General Plan goals, policies, and actions.  City staff from all departments, the GPU Technical 
Advisory Committee (TAC), reviewed the existing General Plan goals, policies, and actions and provided direction 
on which policies needed clarification, improvement, or removal.  In addition, the General Plan team carefully 
reviewed the goals, policies, and actions and identified what changes were needed to respond to community input 
collected throughout the GPU process and State requirements by drawing from best practices used by other 
California communities.  
•
Draft new and revised goals, policies, and actions.  The preparation of the updated goals, policies, and actions for 
the GPU has been going on for over two years, with the TAC and General Plan Team focused on addressing policy 
gaps, alignment with current processes and policies, and in response to community input. These Draft Goals, 
Policies, and Actions are available online at: www.strivesanmateo.org/general-plan-documents/. 
•
Collect input and direction on draft goals, policies, and actions. The General Plan team is sharing the Draft Goals, 
Policies, and Actions with the community, General Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and City Council this 
summer and fall to receive input and direction. Table 1 summarizes the community outreach program. 
Table 1 – Goals, Policies, and Actions Outreach Activities and Events
Event
Date
Strive San Mateo Newsletter
Mailed to all households Citywide during week of July 19-22, 2022
Online Survey
Monday, July 18 to Friday, October 14, 2022
Informational Virtual Workshop
Thursday, September 8, 2022
In-Person Spanish Language Workshop
Saturday, September 10, 2022 at the King Center
In-Person Open House
Saturday, September 17, 2022 at the Downtown Library
Pop-up Events
See Attachment 4 for the list of events
Community Group Presentations 
Dates and locations TBD
Community Feedback 
On July 21, 2022, the City published an online survey to collect feedback and reactions to the Draft Goal, Policies and 
Actions. Participants have the option of selecting which draft goals and policies from the seven General Plan Elements to 
190 of 386

--- page 191 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
provide feedback on. The online survey will stay open through mid-October.  As of September 19, 2022, a total of 158 
responses were submitted. In addition, to-date, the City has received 31 written comment letters. Based on the survey 
responses and written comments, some of the key issues that the community wants to see addressed within the GPU are 
listed below.  A more detailed summary of the online survey results, community input and comment letters is included in 
Attachment 3.  
•
Improving public safety;
•
Limiting noise exposure;
•
Maintaining the City’s visual and architectural character;
•
Adding more affordable housing;
•
Preserving historic resources;
•
Planning for sea level rise;
•
Maintaining and improving infrastructure, public services, parks and recreational facilities; and
•
Improving bicycle and pedestrian safety and connectivity.
General Plan Subcommittee Meetings
The General Plan Subcommittee (GPS) met three times on August 11, 18, and 30, 2022 to review and provide feedback on 
the draft goals, policies, and actions. At all three meetings, the GPS accepted public comments, asked clarifying questions, 
and provided a range of comments and feedback on all of the topics covered in the seven elements.  Some of the 
overarching themes that emerged from the GPS’s discussions and comments are listed below. A more detailed summary of 
the comments and input provided by the GPS is included in Attachment 4. 
•
Focus on ways to support increased housing production and providing housing for residents at all income levels.
•
Support the transition away from single-occupancy vehicles to other forms of mobility and prioritize investment in 
infrastructure that supports the safety and comfort of walking, biking and transit.
•
Highlight how the City will be addressing environmental justice and climate change in all of the elements.
•
Support high quality, pedestrian oriented, human-scale design in new development, with a focus on establishing 
objective standards for architectural design and historic preservation.
•
Support investment in the City’s parks and recreational facilities, and ensure that they are accessible to all 
residents and neighborhoods. 
Planning Commission Meetings
The Planning Commission reviewed the draft goals, policies, and actions at their meetings on September 13 and 
September 27. At the September 13th meeting, the Commission provided recommendations on the Circulation, Public 
Services and Facilities, Noise, and Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Elements. Overall, the Commission generally 
supported the comments provided by the GPS and made comments about the need for some policies to be more focused 
and, in many cases, include stronger language. Some of the Commission’s overarching recommendations for each Element 
are listed below. A more detailed summary of the Commission’s input and recommendations are included in Attachment 
5. 
•
Circulation Element
o
Prioritize capital projects that focus on improving the City’s pedestrian, bicycle and transit infrastructure.
o
Prioritize safety improvements for pedestrian and bicycle users.
o
Reduce parking requirements and focus on ways to maximize existing parking.
•
Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Element
o
Need to identify new funding sources for parks and recreation maintenance and improvements.
o
Identify ways to improve air quality and reduce pollution, including limits on gas powered equipment such as 
leaf blowers.
•
Public Services and Facilities Element
o
Strengthen policies related to water supply, including how the City works with its water providers and 
improving water supply conservation and efficiency. 
191 of 386

--- page 192 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
o
Strengthen policies related to child care.
•
Noise Element
o
Collect more data on noise sources around the City and use that information to establish more focused 
policies and reducing excessive noise. 
To respond to reoccurring comments and feedback that were received from the community, GPS and/or Planning 
Commission, the General Plan Team drafted updated language for various goals, policies and actions in the four elements 
under review at this meeting (Attachments 6-9). These recommendations include edits/revisions to existing language, as 
well as potentially new policies and actions for the Council to consider. Policies and actions with suggested revisions are 
shown in track changes and listed below the original draft language that was published in July 2022 for comparison 
purposes. These recommended edits are not inclusive of all comments received and should be considered a starting point 
for the discussion. Staff is looking for direction on other topics and comments before drafting edits or evaluating updated 
policy language.
DISCUSSION:
The goal of this meeting will be for the Council to provide direction to the General Plan Team on the Draft Goals, Policies, 
and Actions and which ones should or should not be included in the Draft General Plan. As noted above, for this meeting, 
the Council is reviewing and providing direction on the Goals, Policies and Actions for the following four General Plan 
elements:
•
Circulation (Attachment 6)
•
Conservation, Open Space and Recreation (Attachment 7)
•
Public Services and Facilities (Attachment 8)
•
Noise (Attachment 9)
On October 17, 2022, the Council will review and provide direction on the remaining three General Plan elements: 
•
Land Use
•
Community Design and Historic Preservation 
•
Safety
When considering the Draft Goals, Policies, and Actions, as well as all of the comments and feedback collected, the Council 
should consider the following questions:
•
Do you agree with the proposed revisions to the draft goals, policies, and actions, and the proposed new policies 
and actions in response to input received to date (Attachments 6-9)? 
•
Is there anything you would add or change?
•
Should any of the policies be changed from a recommendation to a requirement or vice versa?
•
Are there additional specific actions that should be added to support implementation of the policies?
NEXT STEPS:
Following these two October meetings, the General Plan Team will finalize the goals, policies, and actions per Council 
direction and incorporate them into the Draft General Plan. Publication of the Draft General Plan is targeted in spring 
2023. The Draft General Plan will then be available for review and input from the community, the GPS, the Planning 
Commission, and the City Council in spring and summer of 2023. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct budgetary impacts to taking this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, the City Council's direction on the Draft Goals, Policies and 
Actions is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that this activity will not cause a physical 
change in the environment.  Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) for the General Plan Update 
commenced in August 2022, with publication of the DEIR for public review anticipated in the spring of 2023. The DEIR will 
have a 45-day public comment period once it is published. A Final EIR will be prepared prior to any formal decisions on the 
192 of 386

--- page 193 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
updated General Plan.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
A summary of the community feedback and comments on Draft Goals, Policies and Actions that has been received since 
July 2022 is included in Attachment 3. All written comments that have been submitted on this topic are available online at 
www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments. This link also includes all comments that have been submitted 
since the beginning of the GPU effort in September 2018. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – General Plan Vision Statement
Att 2 – Draft General Plan Outline
Att 3 – Summary of Community Feedback 
Att 4 – Summary of General Plan Subcommittee Meetings 
Att 5 – Summary of Planning Commission Recommendations 
Att 6 – Circulation Element Draft Goals, Policies and Actions
Att 7 – Conservation, Open Space and Recreation Element Draft Goals, Policies and Actions
Att 8 – Public Services and Facilities Element Draft Goals, Policies and Actions
Att 9 – Noise Element Draft Goals, Policies and Actions
STAFF CONTACT
City of San Mateo 
PlaceWorks
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP, Principal
(650) 522-7207 
generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
193 of 386

--- page 194 ---
Our Vision: 
San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that respects the quality of 
its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to equity, and is a leader in 
environmental sustainability. 
Diversity 
We embrace 
diversity and 
respect the 
experiences, 
contributions, 
and aspirations 
of people of all 
ages, abilities, 
incomes, and 
backgrounds. 
We celebrate 
arts and 
culture. 
Balance 
We seek to 
balance  
well-designed 
development 
and thoughtful 
preservation 
with a full 
spectrum 
of choices 
for housing 
and effective 
transportation. 
Inclusivity
We strive 
to include 
everyone in 
community life 
and decisions 
for a shared, 
sustainable 
future.
Prosperity
We cultivate 
a diverse 
and thriving 
economy with 
different types 
of homes, jobs, 
recreation, 
lifelong learning 
opportunities, 
and services 
for both current 
and future 
generations.
Resiliency
We are leaders 
in sustainability, 
making San 
Mateo strong 
and resilient by 
acting boldly 
to adapt to 
a changing 
world. 
Our Values: 
Vision  
	&Values
San Mateo General Plan Update 
www.strivesanmateo.org
194 of 386

--- page 195 ---
P L A C E W O R K S
i
Draft General Plan – Outline
I.
INTRODUCTION 
A. WHAT IS A GENERAL PLAN?
B.
WHO MADE THE GENERAL PLAN?
C. VISION AND VALUES
D. USER’S GUIDE
1.
Overview of elements
2.
Topics integrated throughout:  
a.
Environmental Justice
b.
Climate Change and Sustainability
c.
Community Engagement 
3.
Definition of goal, policy, and action
E.
IMPLEMENTING THE GENERAL PLAN
1.
Relationship to zoning code, other plans, annual budget, etc. 
2.
Amendments process
II.
LAND USE
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Area Description
2.
History
3.
Projected Growth 
4.
Economic Profile
5.
Land Use
i.
Land Use Standards
ii.
Land Use Map
iii.
Specific Plans and Master Plans
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS 
1.
Balanced, Orderly, and Equitable Growth and Preservation
2.
A Diverse Range of Land Uses
3.
Focused Planning Areas
a.
Downtown
b.
El Camino Real
195 of 386

--- page 196 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
ii
July 2022
c.
Hillsdale Station Area
d.
Shopping Centers in Transition
4.
Environmental Justice
a.
Community Health
b.
Equity Priority Communities
c.
Access to Healthy Food
5.
Community Engagement
6.
Climate Change and Sustainability
7.
A Sustainable Economy
a.
Economic Development
b.
Fiscal Health
8.
Development Review
9.
Regional Cooperation
10. General Plan Maintenance
III.
CIRCULATION
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
21st Century Transportation 
2.
Transit 
3.
Bicycle and Pedestrian
4.
Roadway Classifications
5.
Future Traffic Conditions
6.
Roadway improvements
7.
Parking
8.
Future Transportation Technology 
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Multimodal Transportation
2.
Transportation Demand Management
3.
Pedestrians
4.
Bicycles and Micromobility
5.
Transit and Mobility Services
6.
Roadway Improvements
7.
Parking Management
8.
Future Mobility and Technology
196 of 386

--- page 197 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
P L A C E W O R K S
iii
IV.
HOUSING [prepared separately]
V.
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC RESOURCES
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Setting 
2.
Historic Resources
3.
Elements of Design (e.g. scale, massing, materials, lighting, landscaping)
4.
Art in Public Places
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Natural Landscapes and the Urban Forest
2.
Historic Resources
3.
City Image
4.
Residential
5.
Mixed-Use and Commercial Areas
6.
Area-Specific Design Policies
i.
North Central
ii.
Shoreview 
iii.
Marina Lagoon/ Bridgepointe
i.
Northwest Heights
iv.
Hayward Park/SunnyBrae
v.
Beresford Park
ii.
Hillsdale/Sugarloaf
iii.
Western Hills
VI.
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATION
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Natural Resources
2.
Tribal Cultural Resources
3.
Parks and Recreation
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Environmental Stewardship
2.
Access to Nature
3.
Water Quality, Creeks, and Riparian Areas
4.
Air Quality
197 of 386

--- page 198 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
iv
July 2022
5.
Hillsides
6.
Archaeological Resources and Tribal Cultural Resources
7.
Parks and Recreation
VII.
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES 
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Equitable Access to Public Services and Facilities
2.
Water Supply/Storm Drainage/Wastewater/Street Maintenance
3.
Public Buildings
4.
Schools
5.
Library Services
6.
Hospital and Medical Services
7.
Childcare
8.
Social Services
9.
Communications
10. Solid Waste and Recycling
11. Waste Management
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Community Safety
2.
Water Supply
3.
Sewer and Storm Drainage
4.
Public Services and Facilities
5.
Children and Youth
6.
Healthcare and Social Services
7.
Solid Waste
VIII.
SAFETY 
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations
2.
Geologic and Seismic Hazards
3.
Sea Level Rise and Flood Hazards
4.
Wild Fire Hazards 
5.
Hazardous Materials 
6.
Energy Supply   
198 of 386

--- page 199 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
P L A C E W O R K S
v
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations 
2.
Geotechnical Hazards 
3.
Flood Hazards 
4.
Sea Level Rise
5.
Wildfire Hazards 
6.
Hazardous Materials 
7.
Energy Supply 
IX.
NOISE
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Basic Concepts of Environmental Noise
2.
Noise in San Mateo
3.
Mitigating Noise Impacts
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
X.
APPENDICES
XI.
GLOSSARY
XII.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Separate from General Plan: ACTION PLAN (or IMPLEMENTATION PLAN)
199 of 386

--- page 200 ---
MEMORANDUM  
DATE 
September 21, 2022 
TO 
San Mateo City Council 
FROM 
Joanna Jansen and Carey Stone, PlaceWorks 
SUBJECT 
Summary of Community Engagement and Public Input on the Draft Policies and Actions 
This memorandum summarizes the community input received on the draft policies and actions as of 
September 19, 2022. Table 1 summarizes the past and planned outreach events. The purpose of the 
outreach events is to spread the word about the draft policies and actions, answer questions, and collect 
feedback and reactions to the proposed policy language.  
 
TABLE 1 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH EVENTS 
Date 
Outreach Event 
# of Participants 
Thursday, July 21, 2022 to 
Friday, October 14, 2022 
Draft Policies and Actions Online Survey 
158* 
Saturday, July 16, 2022 to 
Monday, September 19, 2022 
Written Public Comments 
33 
Tuesday, August 23, 2022 
Video Loco Pop-up 
25 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
Video Loco Pop-up 
20 
Friday, August 26, 2022 
Chavez Market Pop-up 
15 
Saturday, August 27, 2022 
Rediscover San Mateo Community Fest Pop-up 
140 
September 06, 2022 
Chavez Market Pop-up 
50 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
Virtual Community Workshop 
26 
Friday, September 9, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
50 
Saturday, September 10, 2022 
Spanish Language Workshop 
4 
Saturday, September 10, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
30 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
15 
Friday, September 16, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
50 
Saturday, September 17, 2022 
Open House 
30 
200 of 386

--- page 201 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 2 
 
TABLE 1 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH EVENTS 
Date 
Outreach Event 
# of Participants 
Thursday, September 22, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
TBD 
Friday, September 23, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
TBD 
Saturday, September 24, 2022 
San Mateo Firefighters Association Chili Cook-off Pop-up 
TBD 
Thursday, September 30, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
TBD 
 
*158 survey respondents as of September 19, 2022. 
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY INPUT BY TOPIC/ELEMENT 
This section summarizes the feedback on the draft policies and actions. The City collected feedback via: 
 Draft Policies and Actions Online Survey.  The online survey is available on 
www.strivesanmateo.org from July 21, 2022 through October 14, 2022 to allow community 
members an opportunity to share reactions and feedback on the draft policies and actions. 
Respondents can choose to provide input on some or all of the goals and policies of the seven 
General Plan elements. The settings of the survey restrict the number of responses to one per 
person and track web browser cookies to help ensure that each participant only completes 
the survey once. The online survey is not considered statistically significant.  
 Pop-up Events. The City has planned 13 pop-up events to occur at locations throughout the 
city to ensure the outreach process collects input from the following groups per Council 
direction: 
o Non-English speakers 
o Renters  
o Residents 44 and under  
o Low-income and very low-income households 
o Under-represented neighborhoods: 
 
North Shoreview 
 
Shoreview 
 
North Central 
 
Central 
 
East of 101 
At the pop-up events, City staff has been sharing information about the General Plan update, 
publicized the upcoming outreach events, and encouraging people to take the online survey.  
 Virtual Workshop and Open Houses. The City hosted a virtual workshop on Thursday, 
September 8, 2022, an in-person Spanish language Open House on September 10, 2022, and 
201 of 386

--- page 202 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 3 
an in-person Open House on September 17, 2022. At these events, participants could ask 
questions and provide feedback on the draft policies and actions. 
 Written Comments. Throughout the General Plan Update the City has encouraged people to 
submit written comments to generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org. From July 1, 2022 to 
September 21, 2022, the City received 33 written comments. Attachment A includes the 
original written comments submitted to the City.  
The following sections organize the feedback according to the relevant General Plan element. 
Environmental justice comments are located under the “Environmental Justice” header.  
Land Use Element 
• 
When asked how the City should focus its land use planning efforts, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Maintain downtown San Mateo as the economic, cultural, and social center of 
the community. 
o Promote residential and mixed use land uses and improvements along El 
Camino Real to strengthen its role as both alocal and regional connector. 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Encourage a wide range of land uses, including housing, parks, open space, 
retail, etc. 
o Help improve conditions in equity priority communities. *Note: Equity priority 
communities are areas that have asignificant concentration of underserved 
populations, such as households with low incomes and people of color. 
o Promote balanced, orderly and equitable growth. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Focus housing growth close to public transit and retail areas where the impact 
on existing neighborhoods will be limited. 
o Prioritize residential uses in mixed use designations. Push for a higher number 
of housing units and resident parking in mixed use buildings. 
o Increase the Below Market Rate housing from 15 percent to 20 percent or more 
for new projects that provide affordable housing. 
o Maintain the jobs/housing balance. 
o Prioritize land use policies that will further ithe City’s environmental and social 
equity goals. There seems to be a disconnect between these goals and the 
physical planning and design approaches outlined in the draft Land Use 
Element.  
o Encourage transit-oriented, high density, mixed used developments. 
o Increase family friendly rental housing that have three bedroom units. 
o Streamline permitting for new housing if it meets affordability targets. 
o Simplify the Accessory Dwelling Unit requirements. 
202 of 386

--- page 203 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 4 
o Prioritize housing over retail or office space in mixed use designations. 
o Develop along our various arterials with bus routes, like Alameda de las Pulgas 
and Hillsdale Blvd, not just El Camino Real.  
o Height, density, and parking requirements make it impossible to build 
affordable housing. 
o Preserve existing medical office sites; the shortage of primary care doctors will 
be exacerbated by new housing. 
o Limit the density of downtown development. 
o Require downtown development to account for grade separation. 
o Increase the maximum building height in downtown and elsewhere to support 
more housing options around major transit centers. 
o Add more housing and less office space. 
o Increase housing for all income levels.  
o Stop building housing to reduce traffic and noise. Maintain retail spaces. 
o Expand outdoor dining along B Street. Add more B Street type closures around 
the city. 
o Maintain commercial developments to buffer residential areas from traffic and 
train noise. 
o Stop big developments. 
o Respect Measure Y limits. Keep San Mateo’s small town feel. 
o Increase building heights. 
o Consider five/six-story buildings along El Camino Real and near transit.  
o Stop the construction of housing provided by the government. 
o Accommodate the 1900 Norfolk development and the possible new building at 
the Fish Market. 
o Support Draegers marketstaying in downtown. Add a grocery store in 
downtown if Draegers leaves. 
o Promote smaller stores within communities instead of big stores. 
o Require mixed use projects to have a minimum of 40 percent housing if housing 
program benefits are to apply. 
o Consider the transition of office uses to residential uses only if there is access to 
transit, infrastructure, and recreation services. 
o Encourage retail uses.  
o Make shopping centers more “green” and safe. 
o Repurpose underutlized spaces. 
o Increase family-friendly entertainment uses.  
o Maintain vacant land for park use. 
o Hold town halls and health fairs to engage with the community. 
o Employ ambassadors to walk around the City and engage with people about 
their issues and needs. Need more door to door visits. 
203 of 386

--- page 204 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 5 
o Publicize/have larger presence about City initiatives in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal. 
o Send out more mailers about City happenings.  
o Continue to offer Zoom meetings/workshops in the afternoons/evenings. 
o Offer in-person meetings. 
o Increase public noticing. 
o Consider renters in all City decisions. Encourage renters to participate in 
community engagement processes. 
o Provide child care at meetings. 
o Add WiFi at senior housing; offer digital classes. 
o Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by promoting access to shops, jobs, 
recreation, and services within walking distance.  
Circulation Element 
• 
When asked how the City should work toward a sustainable transportation system, the 
top two answers selected by respondents included: 
o Encourage mixed-use transit oriented development near Cal Train stations and 
transit corridors. 
o Prioritize bicycle and pedestrian safety improvements. 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Foster a sustainable transportation system that has walking, biking, and transit 
connections. 
o Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Reduce and eliminate traffic fatalities. 
o Reduce traffic congestion. 
o Reduce speed limits on driving corridors, especially on El Camino Real. 
o Add stop signs to  Sunnybrae Boulevard to reduce traffic speed. 
o Add stop signs to slow drivers between El camino Real and San Mateo Drive. 
o Implement “less drastic” speed bumps along Alameda de las Pulgas. 
o Keep 26th Avenue and Pico Avenue closed from Campus Drive. 
o Consider oneway streets for narrow roadways. 
o Design roadways across railroad tracks so you don’t have to drive on 19th 
Avenue to get from west San Mateo to east San Mateo. 
o Add connections under railroad tracks as part of grade separation projects. 
o As part of Hayward Station Caltrain redevelopment, connect 16th Avenue under 
the tracks for bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicles.  
o Add bicycle/pedestrian paths along the right-of-way as part of Caltrain 
construction efforts. 
204 of 386

--- page 205 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 6 
o Encourage biking and walking and prioritize bicycle and pedestrian safety 
improvements. 
o Increase off-street/protected bicycle and pedestrian trails. 
o Prioritize and seek out funding for existing proposed bicycle lanes. 
o Add more bike lanes. Add bike lanes along El Camino Real, 3rd Avenue, and 4th 
Avenue,  
o Add bike lockers. 
o Add a bicycle boulevard along Hacienda and Mason along with traffic calming 
measures. 
o Add a buffered bike lane on the Alameda. 
o Improve and widen sidewalks whenever possible.  
o Increase the safety and walkability of El Camino Real by adding crosswalks, 
improving sidewalks and increasing transit. 
o Widen sidewalks along El Camino Real between 20th and 25th Avenues. 
o Update downtown development guidelines so that building to the lot line does 
not reduce the existing sidewalk width. 
o Add a pedestrian bridge over SR 92 between 26th Avenue and Campus Drive. 
o Slow down traffic to 15 mph in school zones, even on main corridors like 
Alameda de las Pulgus in front of Aragon High School and Baywood Elementary. 
o Develop a safe routes for seniors program.  
o Improve pedestrian safety, especially along East Poplar and San Mateo Drive. 
o Allow riding on the sidewalk in appropriate areas. 
o Educate people about the benefit of bicycling and walking in terms of climate 
change. 
o Attract a micromobility provider to San Mateo. 
o Plan for improvements in micromobility including scooters and other new 
technology. 
o Apply complete streets design standards to future projects. 
o Improve transit, walking, and biking connections to parks, public facilities, 
shops, and schools. 
o Incentivize the use of public transportation. 
o Increase bicycle and pedestrian connectivity when reviewing new development 
projects. 
o Encourage electric bike rentals or electric bike subsidies for residents. 
o Add electric vehicle charging stations inpublic parking areas including schools. 
o Encourage carpooling. 
o Require developers to provide on-site parking instead of paying in-lieu fees.  
o Taking away parking to disincentivize car use doesn’t work;don’t remove 
parking for bike lanes. 
o Reduce parking requirements. 
o Limit parking lots. 
205 of 386

--- page 206 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 7 
o Repave the roads in the Sunnybrae neighborhood.  
o Avoid purely asiprational transportation policies; taking away parking will not 
decrease driving. To reduce traffic, encourage hybrid work approaches. 
o Make toll lanes on US 101 free to residents of the county where the lanes are 
located. 
o Consider shared parking, e.g. use Hillsdale Shipping Center for overnight 
parking. 
o Add street lighting citywide. 
o Focus engaging with homeowners, especially over 65 years old. 
Community Design and Historic Preservation Element 
• 
When asked how the City can help develop and maintain San Mateo’s unique character, 
the top two answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Promote pedestrian improvements that increase neighborhood and citywide 
walkability. 
o Require usable public open space areas in new developments. 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Protect heritage trees and street trees. 
o Preserve and enhance San Mateo’s natural setting. 
o Improve the visual character of mixed use and commercial areas. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Preserve historic resources. 
o Update the historic resource survey. 
o Pair historic and ecological preservation with a forward-looking approach to 
new development, including higher densities and acceptance of a range of 
architectural styles. 
o Strengthen the historic resource preservation policies. See the letter from the 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance in Attachment A for the list of suggestions. 
o Allow developers to contribute money for public education and interpretation 
of historic and archaeological resouces as a mitigation measure. 
o Educate the public about cultural resources. 
o Update historical plaques and landmarks; incorporate native voices. 
o Maintain the character of San Mateo in new development by incorporating 
classical design elements and sufficient green space. 
o Incorporate design principles to ensure that new buildings and additions are 
responsive and complementary to the existing historic character, local 
topography, urban design and sense of place that is evident throughout San 
Mateo. 
o Incorporate more traditional architectural in new buildings in or near the 
historic district. 
206 of 386

--- page 207 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 8 
o Improve the character of downtown. 
o Include shorter buildings at the street front and transition to taller buildings at 
the back to prevent an “alley” feeling on a street. 
o Support more stories of building height if building design is attractive. 
o Add more benches downtown. 
o Prioritize pedestrian and wheelchair friendly design. 
o Continue to support ground floor retail uses and improvements the physical and 
aesthetic nature of the Borel Square commercial district. New buildings or 
remodels should incorporate natural landscaping that compliments the 
residential neighborhood. Encourage a mixed-use and community recreation 
facility.  
o Add more trees to keep the city cool from excessive heat. 
o Regularly water trees planted as part of the tree planting program. 
o Add flexibility for the removal and replacement of historic trees. Look at the 
criteria for tree removal. 
o Add incentives to remove trees that pose a fire danger. 
Conservation, Open Space, Parks and Recreation Element 
• 
When asked how the City can imporve access to parks, recreational programs, and 
facilities, the top two answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Increase availability of free park facilities and amenities that are open to the 
public. 
o Increase opportunities for residents to provide input on major park 
improvements. 
• 
When asked how the City should prioritize future park improvements, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Invest in underserved areas and areas with limited access to park facilities. 
o Improve and create new passive use outdoor spaces such as linear parks and 
pocket parks. 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Protect and enhance the City’s natural resources. 
o Ensure that all San Mateo residents breathe safe, clean air. 
o Provide a comprehensive system of parks and recreation programs and 
facilities. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Maintain and preserve heritage trees. 
o Amend Policy CD-P2.3 to protect tree roots during construction activity. 
o Incorporate fire prevention measures in open space. 
o Develop more green space and sports fields. 
207 of 386

--- page 208 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 9 
o Add pocket parks everywhere. Work with the community to identify the 
locations. 
o Make private open space requirements flexible to increase open space. 
o Open Mickelson Pool. 
o Add a 50 meter swimming pool. 
o Upgrade the pickle ball courts at Central Park. 
o Paint and update all City buildings and community centers. 
o Reduce the amount of trash at Central Park. 
o Create a program where individuals can sponsor dog poop bag stations. 
o Offer a variety of professional concerts and performances at the San Mateo 
Performing Arts Center. 
o Ensure the accessibility of all public services and facilities, such as playgrounds 
and recreational programs for children with disabilities. 
o Add more spaces for community groups to gather. 
o Incorporate maker spaces in libraries or recreation centers. 
o Work with schools to open their playgrounds for public use. 
o Implement a “Take a Hike” program similar to the County of San Mateo. 
o Complete the Bay Trail. 
o Encourage healthy lifestyles through City events like walk-a-thons. 
o Add exercise stations along walking and jogging trails. 
o Add a water faucet at the Seal Point dog park bench/shade structure. 
o Plant trees at Seal Point. 
o Allow off-road bicycle access, including on singletrack trail segments, in 
Sugarloaf Open Space. 
o Utilize vacant lots for community gardens, trails, and exercise use. 
o Increase outdoor trails. 
o Provide safe connecting routes to open spaces in Belmont. 
o Increase rooftop gardens. 
o Use native and drought tolerant plants in City parks. 
o Not enough parking at Central Park. 
o Beresford Park is too crowded. 
o Reduce the use of artificial chemicals ( fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides) to 
create a more regenerative local ecosystem. 
o Clean up outdoor spaces and waterways.  
o Improve access to creeks and the lagoon. Add benches and trails along the 
lagoon. 
o Educate the community about the benefits of creeks, ex. they provide habitat 
for plants and animals and flood protection. 
o Protect and preserve open space; no mitigation should be allowed. 
o Maintain our natural areas to help protect residents from heat events. 
o Raise our levees to protect the city from sea level rise.  
208 of 386

--- page 209 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 10 
o Encourage solar panels; consider City subsidies. 
o Ban gas leaf blowers to improve air quality and reduce noise. 
o Create an outdoor, dedicated roller skating area. 
o Reduce light pollution. 
Public Services and Facilities Element 
• 
When asked how the City should support access to health care facilities, social services, 
and other community health amenities, the top two answers selected by survey 
respondents included: 
o Support efforts to provide the city’s fair share of social services. 
o Encourage the expansion of high-quality medical care services. 
• 
When asked how the City should maintain adequate water supplies, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Encourage water efficiency in new developments and existing buildings. 
o Distribute recycled water for non-drinking purposes, such as toilet flushing and 
laundry. 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Provide access to a safe, sustainable and resilient supply of water. 
o Provide for adequate police, fire, and life safety protection. 
o Foster the healthy development and education of children of all abilities, 
incomes, and backgrounds. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Ensure that future growth can be supported by City infrastructure. 
o Make library services more inclusive, dynamic, and reflective of the community. 
o Increase police street patrol to reduce crime. 
o Improve police and fire response times. 
o Maintain police service levels and response times as the population grows. 
o Modernize the fair grounds. 
o Incentivize grey water systems. 
o Maintain the corporation yard in its existing location. 
o Focus water conservation strategies on big water users. 
o Add more lawn removal requirements. 
o Fix water leaks. 
o Expand programs that reimburse homeowners for sewer mainline repairs or 
replacements. 
o Need environmentally safe buildings and infrastructure. 
o Partner with Recology to promote composting/food waste reduction at publicly 
owned apartment complexes. 
o Reduce construction waste. 
209 of 386

--- page 210 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 11 
o Reduce litter on streets, sidewalks, creeks, etc. Add more garbage cans to 
reduce littering. 
o Eliminate street sweeping machines in neighborhoods that do not restrict 
parking for street sweeping. 
o Mirror the San Francisco “Pit Stop” program (i.e. public restrooms). 
o Need more support for the homeless. 
o Retain and support healthcare providers and first responders. 
o Establish wellness centers. 
o Parnter with medical companies to promote wellness. 
o Need more dental facilities and discounts for dental service. 
o Increase farmers’ markets and publicize their availability. 
o Fund healthy school lunches. 
Safety Element 
• 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Maintain adequate safety protection from wildfires. 
o Promote clean energy supply. 
o Develop sea level rise adaptation measures and programs. 
• 
Other comments: 
o Ensure that every community has a community center that can serve as a 
cooling center or emergency shelter during extreme and other types of 
disasters. 
o Support emergency prepardness efforts. 
o Continue to manage vegetation to reduce wildfire risks. 
o Trim eucalyptus trees along SR 92 (near Murphy) to reduce wildfire hazards. 
o Create a City program to address trees that pose a wildfire hazard; offer 
financial incentives to remove trees. 
o Ensure that the new wastewater treatment plant incorporates a horizontal 
levee design for resilience to sea level rise. 
o Plan for sea level rise.  
o Consider the limits of our electricy grid when advocating for the use of clean 
energy sources.  
o Quicken the transition to all electric heating and power. 
o Add security cameras in public ares and parks. 
o Move the Energy Supply section to the Public Services and Facilities Element. 
o Create a plan to generate clean electric power. 
o Encourage rooftop solar and electrification. 
Noise Element 
• 
Prohbit the use of outdoor equipment on Sundays.  
210 of 386

--- page 211 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 12 
• 
Require the use of electric leaf blowers.  
• 
Reduce Caltrain and Union Pacific noise. Upgrade Caltrain crossings so no train horn is 
required.  
• 
Train warning horn blasts seem excessively loud. 
• 
Reduce Caltrain noise by adding greenery along US 101 and SR 92. 
• 
Implement a Caltrain quiet zone similar to Atherton. 
• 
Caltrain grade separation will help reduce noise. 
• 
Improve the sound wall on the west side of US 101. 
• 
Reduce the noise level along SR 92; it is too high and constant. 
• 
Reduce the use of illegal fireworks.  
• 
Establish and enforce a maximum noise limit for vehicles.  
• 
Reduce noise pollution from aircraft. 
• 
Reduce noice pollution from automobiles and buses. 
• 
Reduce traffic noise along El Camino Real. 
• 
Require noise and vibration abatement for older, existing buildings that apply for 
rehabilitation/construction permits. 
• 
As temperatures rise, consider the influence of AC units and increased noise and 
encourage all passive modes of cooling before mechanical cooling. 
• 
Limit the number of contruction projects happening in an area to reduce noise impacts. 
• 
Limit street sweeping to 5 am and later in the downtown area. 
• 
Ticket loud cars and motorcycles. 
Environmental Justice (covered in multiple elements) 
Environmental justice addresses our living environments, and specifically the health, safety, and 
opportunities available in different communities. The General Plan must include policies and 
actions that will lead to an equitable distribution of resources and opportunities and will reduce 
the impacts of environmental hazards in equity priority communities. Per State law, the General 
Plan’s environmental justice policies and actions must reflect the needs of the jurisdiction’s equity 
priority communities. To understand the needs of San Mateo’s equity priority communities, the 
City is holding a series of pop-ups in North Central and North Shoreview. This section summarizes 
input collected through a paper survey about environmental justice topics at the August 23 and 
25, 2022 Video Loco Pop-up (North Central), August 26, 2022 Chavez Market Pop-up (North 
Shoreview), and Rediscover Community Fest Pop-up (Downtown) and at the Spanish language 
workshop on September 10, 2022. The paper survey was available in Spanish, Simplified Chinese, 
and English. City staff collected approximately 91 survey responses at these pop-ups.  
Walking, Biking, and Taking the Bus 
• 
Too many homeless people especially on the bus. Provide bicycles to homeless people. 
• 
San Mateo has good access to public transit and bike lanes. 
• 
Need more frequent bus service to reduce wait times. 
211 of 386

--- page 212 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 13 
• 
San Mateo needs BART service. 
• 
Establish autonomous transportation in the downtown corridor. 
• 
Do not allow cars in the downtown. 
• 
Improve bike lanes; it is dangerous and difficult to ride your bike on the road. 
• 
Add more bike lanes, but maintain existing parking. 
• 
Require helmets on electric scooters. Establish speed limits for electric scooters. 
• 
Improve pedestrian access on El Camino Real. 
• 
Need to add crosswalks, especially where students take the bus near 2nd Avenue and 
Humboldt Street. 
• 
Add more pedestrian crossings along Poplar Avenue; it is very dark in places. 
• 
Improve 4th Avenue and Idaho Street. 
• 
Improve the sidwalks. 
• 
Have accessible ramps at every sidewalk crossing. 
• 
Improve the roads. 
• 
Reduce traffic speeds. 
• 
Parking is an issue.  
• 
Reduce car break-ins. 
• 
Add more street lighting citywide including along Monte Diablo Avenue and Grant 
Street. 
Access to Healthy Foods 
• 
San Mateo has access to healthy food. 
• 
One thing that is missing is a large grocery store like Safeway. Safeway is a little bit far 
away. There used to be a Kmart next to Ross but now it is gone. Add a large grocery 
store at the Ross site.  
• 
Many people get free, healthy food; there is a lot of support from churches and 
nonprofits.  
• 
Add food lockers or refrigerators with free food at local worsjo[ spaces or recreation 
centers. 
• 
Improve access to low-cost food. 
• 
Improve the food offered at schools; make school food healthier.  
• 
Reduce the cost of fresh, healthy food. 
• 
Lower income people are in poorer health because they can't afford organic food. 
• 
Increase community gardens in San Mateo; convert Fitzgerald Field into a community 
garden. 
Civic Engagement 
• 
Make a flyer with tear out phone numbers that people can take with them with 
information about events or where to call if they have a problem or question.  
212 of 386

--- page 213 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 14 
• 
These bilingual pop-ups are great. Talk to people where they are; go directly to their 
neighborhoods. 
• 
Have meetings and events in parks and sports fields. 
• 
Increase advertising of events; increase social media posts. 
• 
Need to think about how to engage with people who don't know how to read or write. 
• 
Need more community events that are culturally specific.  
• 
Have options to participate in many languages; need more Spanish language workshops. 
• 
Hold after-work meetings. 
• 
Increase the presence of City staff at community events to meet people and learn about 
our community’s needs.  
• 
Use community groups and other agencies already working in our neighborhoods as 
messengers for City initiatives.  
• 
Hold more neighborhood meetings. 
• 
Expand advertisements of City Council meetings and make it clear that people can 
provide comments, immigrants don't participate. Let people know that this is the only 
way you get your voice heard.  
• 
Translate City Council meetings into multiple languages. 
• 
Schedule meetings on alternating days. 
• 
Organize and educate the people that live here. Have meetings to orient them on how 
to improve the quality of life. 
• 
Send more frequent notices through the mail, television, and radio; educate people 
about what is happening. 
• 
Go to schools to provide information. 
• 
Enforce compliance with Home for All housing plan. 
Physical Activity and Community Health 
• 
San Mateo could use a community health center. 
• 
Need more fitness programs, fitness is not a priority for people. 
• 
San Mateo needs more gyms.  
• 
We need more gym equipment in parks. Especially the type of equipment that suggests 
the number of repetitions to do on each machine.  
• 
There are a lot of places outdoors to run and walk; need to improve the promoting the 
availability of these spaces. 
• 
Fix the playground slide at the Martin Luther King Park playground. 
• 
City should promote or advertise sports events and sponsor events such as races.  
• 
Promote physical activities with the support of different agencies. 
• 
Offer free classes like Zumba or martial arts in public spaces. 
• 
Convert Fitzgerald Field into a multipurpose use including basketball, Tai Chi, and al 
fresco group exercise classes. 
• 
We have quite a few parks, trails and fields for sports. 
213 of 386

--- page 214 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 15 
• 
Add signage and posters to promote exercise and health. 
• 
Need more exercise programs like the City of Burlingame offers. 
• 
Need more programs for youth and more space for youth programs; provide funding for 
participation in programs. 
• 
There are no opportunities for physical exercise for children with disabilities.  
• 
Need more activities for senior citizens, organize and promote programs and short field 
trips for seniors. 
• 
Focus on keeping the areas clean. People should not leave their trash everywhere. Clean 
the streets regularly. 
• 
Improve public safety.  
• 
Increase the height of the freeway sound wall. 
Equitable Access to Public Facilities 
• 
There are public services, parks, public restrooms. Very good access to public services 
here. 
• 
There are some private places, there should be assistance to pay for the use of private 
spaces and private lessons and classes. Or just don't have any private spaces and make 
everything public. 
• 
Provide assistance/financial aid to cover the cost of recreation programs. 
• 
All programs in public spaces must be free. 
• 
Treat everyone the same. Do not differentiate between people. 
• 
Educate people about the public services that are available. Support schools that have 
fewer resources.  
• 
Ensure that public programs benefit as many people as possible, not just the same 
families. 
Pollution and Air Quality 
• 
There is very little pollution. There are no factories that contaminate the air in this 
neighborhood. 
• 
Require a health risk assessment. 
• 
There are a lot of electric vehicles here which will help improve air quality.  
• 
Electric cars and public transportation are expensive. 
• 
Need more electric vehicle charging stations. 
• 
Offer low cost public transportation options. 
• 
Add housing near jobs so you don’t have to drive. 
• 
Incentivize people to not drive to work. 
• 
Do not cut trees. 
• 
Provide other options instead of driving. Provide more bike lanes, give drivers an 
incentive for getting electric cars such as rebates. 
• 
The City can't really do much for pollution, focus regionally, but the City cannot fix it. 
214 of 386

--- page 215 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 16 
• 
What open space and traffic and noise pollution measures can be put in place for North 
Central? 
• 
Everybody deserves a piece of open space, fresh air, and nature. Add more open space 
to the affected areas. 
Other Ideas  
• 
There is a lot of vandalism and crime. They have tried to rob me in my house. The gangs 
try to steal cars. The most important thing is for people to feel safe in the 
neighborhoods. 
• 
Everyone should support each other and help each other out. 
• 
More activities to keep children occupied and more investment in public safety. 
• 
Schools need more materials, maintenance and resources for the children. They need 
materials such as personal hygiene supplies. There should also be more vigilance and 
security in our schools.  
• 
Need a lot more housing. Need to make affordable housing for low-income people. 
• 
There is no parking on B Street and downtown at lunchtime. 
• 
Have the City approve permits for neighborhood block parties to improve community 
building. 
• 
The police need better relationships and to be more present in the community. More 
police are needed but they should be talking to the people and building relationships. 
• 
Fix the properties on Norfolk.  
• 
Add more neighborhood shops. 
• 
Review City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) 
documents for their screening of the needs of lower income areas. 
Other Comments 
• 
Consider the cumulative traffic impacts of all the proposed projects within the city. 
• 
Do not allow downzoning under the preferred land use scenario. 
• 
Apply a Mixed Use High designation at the PS Business Park site in Study Area 8. 
• 
I do not support environmental justice. 
• 
Need to build new schools to support additional housing growth. 
• 
There is not enough water for additional housing growth. 
• 
Limit job growth to what is needed for economic health. 
• 
Create progress reports every five years to summarize what the City has accomplished 
and identify ways to further meet the General Plan goals. 
 
 
215 of 386

--- page 216 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 17 
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Demographics 
This section summarizes the demographic characteristics of the outreach participants. Of the 646 total 
participants, 264 participants provided voluntary demographic data. The demographic data helps the 
project team determine if the outreach program is reaching the full range of San Mateo’s demographics. 
This data indicates that the outreach program should continue to be refined to increase involvement of 
renters, younger residents, and residents who identify as Asian and Black/African American. A summary 
of the demographics of the outreach participants is presented below.  
How are you affiliated with San Mateo?  
Number of Respondents: 264 
 
 
 
59%
8%
25%
7%
1%
0%
live in San Mateo
Work in San Mateo Live and work in San
Mateo
Visit San Mateo to
shop, dine, etc
I am not connected
to San Mateo
Own property in San
Mateo
216 of 386

--- page 217 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 18 
Which best describes your current housing situation?  
Number of Respondents: 234 
 
 
Owner 
Occupied, 62%
Renter 
Occupied, 33%
Other, 5%
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
Owner 
Occupied
54%
Renter 
Occupied 
46%
City of San Mateo, 2019
217 of 386

--- page 218 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 19 
 
What is your age group?  
Number of Respondents: 246 
 
 
0.8%
4%
26%
44%
26%
Under 18 years
18-24 years
25-40 years
41-64 years
65+ years
27%
17%
15%
13%
12%
15%
0-25 years
25-34 years
35-44 years
45-54 years
55-64 years
65+ years
City of San Mateo, 2019
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants 
218 of 386

--- page 219 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 20 
What is your race or ethnicity? (Check all that apply).  
Number of Respondents: 259 
 
 
 
 
1%
7%
14%
2%
21%
7%
48%
Native American
Other
Asian or Pacific Islander
Black/African American
Latino/Hispanic
Mixed or other
White
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
0%
26%
2%
25%
6%
41%
American Indian or Alaska Native
Asian / API, Non-Hispanic
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latinx
Other Race or Multiple
White, Non-Hispanic
City of San Mateo, 2019
219 of 386

--- page 220 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 21 
Which best describes your household annual income?  
Number of Respondents: 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15%
13%
17%
54%
Less than $75,000
$75,000-$99,000
$100,000-$149,000
$150,000 or more
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
19%
10%
5%
16%
50%
Less than $50,000
$50,000-$74,999
$75,000-$99,999
$100,000-$149,999
$150,000 or more
City of San Mateo, 2019
220 of 386

--- page 221 ---
Sent: Saturday, July 16, 2022 9:58 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: To the Council For Monday's City Council Mtg...thanks 
 
Under the preferred general plan, what are you going to do about the traffic that will be 
generated in and through the now planned “land locked” Hayward Park area? 
  
Railroad tracks on the East and 4 plus story, high density buildings on the North, South and 
West with only two streets  through Hayward Park: Palm Avenue and B Street. 
  
Larry Patterson promised that when Bay Meadows and the TOD overlay was approved, there 
would be no net increase in terms of  traffic on Palm Ave and B St. He said that on the record. 
  
But that is clearly not going to be the case when this GP update is implemented. 
 
Did planning forget to look at these planning issues comprehensively? Or did they just look at 
various sections of  the City, separately - Downtown, El Camino and 92/101, without looking at 
the cumulative impacts that each of those 3 individual high density sections might have on one 
particular neighborhood?   
  
For the GP update, was there cumulative traffic studies done on the impact of high density 
being built on the north, west and south sides of Hayward part or were they just done 
separately on the downtown, El Camino and Hayward Park TOD sections?   
  
The problem is the cumulative impact of each of those separate sections on Hayward Park 
itself. This issue happens nowhere else in the City under the preferred GP update. 
  
I would appreciate your response as to the cumulative traffic impact on Hayward Park, if the 
present preferred GP is passed. 
  
A quick final note, it also seems that you’re giving up on solar access for a wide swath of 
Hayward Park residents along the El Camino Real. 
  
  
Sincerely Yours, 
  
Laurence Kinsella 
 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
 
221 of 386

--- page 222 ---
From: Gustavo Hornos 
  
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 3:54 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please do not allow “Downzoning” in Zone Study 4  
 
Download full resolution images 
Available until Aug 17, 2022 
 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 
 
We ask for your help in this matter because after reading the Staff’s suggestions and looking at the zone 
map they prepared for today’s Plan Update Meeting  they are proposing to lower our current R4 
Residential Multiple Family Dwelling High Density into a Low/Medium designation. 
 
It is clear to us that even they say otherwise they are still trying to limit and downgrade our block building 
rights while  allowing a huge increase for other properties in the same Downtown area, actually in front of 
our eyes, right in our backyard. 
 
This is happening even after the City Council and the Mayor in person clearly said that “Downzoning" was 
not fair. 
 
We are attaching a picture from our backyard where you will see how the newly approved 5 Story 
MidPeninsula Garage Building is changing completely our view and PDFs of the current San Mateo 
Zoning Plans for you to compare in order to make justice and to exercise fairness. 
 
Attached is also the PDF file with our previous letter regarding a “Request to do not lower our home land 
use zone density category” and to be considered as our comments for today’s City Council Meeting 
where you will decide about Land Use in San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
Gustavo Hornos and Jesica Salomon 
, San Mateo CA 94402 (between 5th & 9th Avenue) 
 
 
222 of 386

--- page 223 ---


--- page 224 ---


--- page 225 ---


--- page 226 ---
Request to the City Council of San Mateo
To do not lower our home land use zone density category.
606 S Delaware St, San Mateo, CA 94402

April 18, 2022

Dear San Mateo Mayor Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Diane Papan and City Council
Members Joe Goethals, Amourence Lee and Eric Rodriguez.

We are writing to you in regards of the recent General Plan discussions that could
greatly affect our homeowners rights.

We are opposed and concerned about the proposed down zoning to my block, it
could face legal scrutiny and is contrary to our City's stated goals of zoning to meet
our RHNA (Regional Housing Needs Allocation) numbers.

Our property is currently zoned R4 (high density multifamily housing) and the Land
Use Alternatives for Zone 4 all propose down-zoning: the Alternative A is proposing
to change it to a Medium Density and Alternative B and C want to lower it into a
Low Density.

The property is located clearly in the Downtown District and inside the Half Mile
Mass Transit Radius, right where many new tall building constructions is already
happening, so we should be equally treated and our current zoning should not be
lowered.

Our property shown in the map below with an arrow is located at 606 S Delaware St,
between Sth and 7th Ave which is inside the Downtown city limits and referenced as
Study Area 4 for the General Plan Update.

Study Area 4 - Downtown

Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C



--- page 227 ---
We have been engaged and following with interest all the new plans for improvements
for the future of our beloved city where we live and work and we even hosted one of
the first General Plan meetings at our business, the Motion Arts Center dance studio
located at 217 S Claremont St. (which was closed for over a year because of the
pandemic)

When we bought our home in 2013 one very important factor for us to purchase this
specific one was that it was designated as a R4 High Density Zoning. Our reasoning
was that San Mateo will keep growing and eventually we could start building more
square feet of living area since there is always an increasing need for more housing.

The image below (taken from a current San Mateo city land use map) shows with a
star where our property is located and the brown color means that it is a High Density
Multi-Family Zone.

[| Low Density Multi-Family
| Medium Density Multi-Fan
[ High Density Multi-Family

227 of 386


--- page 228 ---
After participating in person and later watching numerous City Council meetings we
saw that the Council was firmly determined to tackle this lack of housing, a goal that it
is also greatly encouraged by the California State Government.

We witness how many new buildings have been approved just in the next two blocks of
our home, like the one at 405 E 4th Ave, where Verkada has it headquarters and the
recently approved Kiku Crossing MidPen Housing just one block from us.

We are very happy that new affordable housing is coming to the city, but unfortunately
the height of the 7 floors of the residences and the 5 Floors of the Garage will greatly
affect our privacy in our backyard, the amount of open view and even the hours of
sunlight that we are used to enjoying everyday.

This view taken from the Online Virtual Tool that the city provides shows our block
hidden behind the possible construction at the San Mateo Lumber ( blue color in the
following picture). In green color is the representation of the Kiku Crossing Garage
while the MidPen Housing is shown in color brown.

San Mateo Land Use Alternatives

s Za SM Lumber Our Home is

Hidden Behind

Study Area 4 (Downtown) - Alternative A

228 of 386


--- page 229 ---
Below is another view from a different angle of our block that shows the near future
and how everything will look when construction is completed. Our property shouldn't
be downzoned with so much construction right in-front of us!

KIKU GARAGE MidPen Housing

ww,

——— SM Lumber

Our Home is
Hidden Behind

Raw” wee

= &

=.
—

‘

229 of 386


--- page 230 ---
We understand that on top of that it will not be fair at all to us (and to the rest of the
residents in our block) to suffer an unjustified zoning downgrading of our future
building capabilities as it is shown at the moment in the alternatives A, B and C of
Study Area 4, while every other property in our zone is being greatly improved in their
building density zoning.

If any of these proposals are approved by the Council it will inflict a direct economic
harm to the value of our main family asset and that of our S Delaware St. neighbors in
the two blocks between 5th Ave and 9th Ave. The affected properties addresses by
this possible change are: S Delaware St. 500, 504, 512, 514, 518, 522, 600, 604, 606,
610, 622, 626, 702, 706, 710, 714, 718, 720, 724, 800, 804, 810, 814 and 820).

Moreover, our neighbor right behind our backyard is the San Mateo Lumber, which is
sitting in a big lot that could easily be converted in the future into another tall building
that will completely diminish our privacy and quality of life.

As you can see it is very clear to visualize in the previous images that our homes could
be massively shaded by present and future constructions and that at least the Council
should protect our current zone density designation..

Below is a picture of the fence of our backyard recently broken by regular operations
by the lumber yard that unequivocally shows that we are in the Downtown Business
Area after all.

230 of 386


--- page 231 ---
231 of 386


--- page 232 ---
Please make justice and consider this request to ease our situation and just imagine for
a moment how you would personally feel if this ever happened to your home and
property. We believe this zoning downgrading is against the spirit of the General Plan,
it is arguably a policy mistake that did not consider in depth the dynamics of this block
and something that was never proposed at any meeting by any of the San Mateo
neighbors.

We respectfully ask you to keep our block with the zoning that it currently has which is
an R4 High Density Multi-Family one.

At this moment Alternative A is proposing to change it to a Medium Density and
Alternative B and C want to lower it into a Low Density.

The San Mateo City website says that the city is committed to equity but we will not
feel equally treated if our block is the only block in the San Mateo Downtown District
that is lowered when everything else is upgraded and getting ready for more
construction as required and mandated by law.

Sincerely yours,

Gustavo Hornos & Jesica Salomon

GE San Mateo, CA 94402

232 of 386


--- page 233 ---
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 2:59 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Bradley Karvasek
Subject: Agenda Item #20: General Plan Update - Land Use Map

Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council:

I am writing on behalf of PS Business Parks (PSBP), the owner of Bayshore
Corporate Commons, located at 1720 South Amphlett Boulevard in San Mateo, CA.

Tonight, you are being asked to confirm the draft land use map and the heights and
densities associated with the land use designations for the City’s General Plan Update.
We have been participating in the General Plan Update process this year and have
been very encouraged by the City’s willingness to consider designating our site as
Mixed-Use to optimize the opportunity for redevelopment.

We were thankful when both the Planning Commission and City Council agreed that
the Mixed-Use High designation would be appropriate for the City’s General Plan
Update environmental review to allow for future flexibility in determining the
appropriate mixes and locations of uses on a redeveloped site.

Last week, we were concerned to see staff's recommendation to split our site between
Mixed-Use Medium and Mixed-Use High. When combined with staff's
recommendation to lower the number of stories, Mixed-Use Medium impacts any
developer’s ability to build industry standard residential construction - 5 stories of
residential (type III wood construction) over 2 levels of parking. These changes would
make it harder to envision new housing on our site, which is counter to the discussions
we've had regarding providing a pathway to providing more housing.

We appreciate the discussion at the last City Council meeting regarding appropriate
transitions to the nearby residential neighborhood, but that should not split the CEQA
analysis of the site at this stage.

Therefore, we ask that the City Council stay the course with the Mixed-Use High
designation for the site, so that the maximum building intensity can be studied as part
of the General Plan Update and its environmental review. Moving forward, the City
will have many opportunities to weigh in on a project when an application is filed—
for now the Mixed-Use High designation provides flexibility and opportunity.

233 of 386


--- page 234 ---
Thank you for your hard work on this General Plan Update. We appreciate our 
partnership with the City. 
Sincerely, 
Bradley Karvasek 
 
 
 
Bradley Karvasek | Vice President - Senior Development Executive  
2525 152nd Ave NE | Redmond, WA 98052 
T 425.883.1300  C 206.369.1355 
psbusinessparks.com 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
This e-mail may contain confidential or proprietary materials for the sole use 
of the intended recipient. Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others 
is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the 
sender by reply e-mail and delete all copies. 
 
 
234 of 386

--- page 235 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 4:56 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Bob Childs 
Email: 
 
Message: Your mailer on the general plan states "the general plan team will reach out to communities in 
San Mateo where health and well-being are harmed by inequities to ask about the needs and priorities 
of those residents". How about having the general plan team reach out to the communities that are 
paying the bulk of the taxes? We are paying your salary and you should be listening to us, the tax 
payers! Your " Environmental Justice" plan stinks of woke ideology. If you listen to the people who are 
paying the taxes you might actually hear that there are people who do not support these socialist 
programs you are pushing. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 20, 2022 
Time: 11:55 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 
Chrome/103.0.0.0 Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
235 of 386

--- page 236 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 2:30 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Keith 
Email: 
 
Message: Ronald Reagan once said that if fascism ever comes to America it'll come in the name of 
liberalism, (ie. socialism). That's what I see when I hear the terms social justice, environmental justice, 
etc... 
Funding and organizing the radical left wing since day one are the central banking oligarchs. They are 
fascists/neo-feudalists using socialist dupes and socialist policies to consolidate political and economic 
power.  
The central banking oligarchs are implementing their new/one world order agenda at the local, state, 
national and international level using ignorant and corrupt political hacks like the person reading this 
message. 
PS. CO2/plant food does not drive global temperatures, never has, never will. The CO2/plant food scare 
is an oligarch scam. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 9:30 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Android 10; Mobile; rv:91.0) Gecko/91.0 Firefox/91.0 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
236 of 386

--- page 237 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 3:16 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: John Konopka 
Email: 
 
Message: I'm most concerned about global warming and sea level rise. Much of San Mateo lies close to 
sea level. How at risk are we? What can be done? How are we coordinating with other cities bordering 
the Bay? 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 20, 2022 
Time: 10:16 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.5 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
237 of 386

--- page 238 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 12:14 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Sue Papilion 
Email: 
 
Message: Received literature on plan participation which said take survey and I see the survey is over? 
Either I got literature late 7/20/22 or you got your wires crossed. I think far too often committees 
assume everything runs as fast as their decisions and the public is a pain anyway because you only hear 
the negative from them. Well I'd like to be positive about growth and you needed my input as a renter! 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 7:14 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.4 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
238 of 386

--- page 239 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 6:14 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: jim tilton 
Email: 
 
Message: It does not matter how much affordable housing you build there will always be a need for 
more. If enough of the elites can not find and hire the help they need to maintain there lawns and teach 
in the schools then the desirability of the are will decrease and people will be able to afford housing. 
Building high density housing on every available inch is clearly not the answer. . . 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 1:13 am 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.5 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
239 of 386

--- page 240 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 3:47 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Violeta 
Email: 
 
Message: I just got your flyer. While you talk about reshaping the city and talk about development and 
growth -so far I’ve only seen the co at ruction of offices and housing but have not heard or read 
ANYTHING about building new schools considering the amount of people these new housing will bring 
to the city. Are you going to build new schools? or does development only means property taxes the city 
will collect without considering that more families mean even bigger class sizes in our already crammed 
schools? 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 10:47 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 15_0_2 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, 
like Gecko) Version/15.0 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
240 of 386

--- page 241 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 9:46 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Kent Carrillo 
Email: 
 
Message: you guys are ruining San Mateo with the continued construction of more, and more, and more 
high density housing. where is it written that San Mateo needs to be the next New York City? Stop 
already. We dont have enough water now. Where will the water come from for all these hundreds of 
new units? Why is it nobody is talking about that? Just stop. I dont care what the State says. How about 
listening to your residents for a change, especially your long time residents. San Mateo used to be so 
very nice. Now, its pretty much urban sprawl. we dont need it, dont want it. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 22, 2022 
Time: 4:45 am 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/103.0.0.0 
Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
241 of 386

--- page 242 ---
From: Frank Markowitz 
  
Sent: Friday, July 29, 2022 3:33 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe 
Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan - support for higher densities, higher building heights, and improved 
bicycle/pedestrian facilties 
 
General Plan Subcommittee - 
 
As a single-family homeowner in the Beresford/Hillsdale area since 2002 (and an experienced 
urban/transportation planner), I commend the City Council for supporting targeted higher 
densities.   Given the severe local jobs/housing imbalance, resulting in teachers and other middle-class 
jobholders unable to afford to live here, it is imperative that more housing be approved, while limiting 
job growth.    
 
I support concentrating housing growth in areas close to public transit and shopping (like near Caltrain 
stations and along El Camino Real) or in areas where the impact on existing neighborhoods will be 
limited (like redeveloping the Campus Drive Peninsula Office Park).  The Measure Y height limit of 55 
feet is far too restrictive, and I support a higher limit, going back to the voters again if needed.  This 
limit is inconsistent with what neighboring cities are approving and a potential impediment to efficient 
development. I strongly support rezoning commercial areas to encourage residential or mixed-use 
redevelopment.  I also support more affordable housing. 
 
There is a recent trend among a number of other cities locally (like South SF, Burlingame, and Redwood 
City)  to support huge biotech development, out of scale with housing growth.  I hope that San Mateo 
will not follow this trend, and job growth should be limited to the amount needed to stay economically 
healthy. 
 
Regarding transportation, I support local proposals, including a bicycle boulevard on Hacienda and 
Mason (with significant traffic calming measures)  and a buffered bike lane on the Alameda.  Pedestrian 
safety improvements and improved street lighting are needed citywide. 
 
Thanks very much. 
 
Frank Markowitz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
242 of 386

--- page 243 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Thursday, August 4, 2022 4:04 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing... 
 
To the members of the general plan:  
 
Yesterday, I called many offices of primary care doctors to seek an appointment since my primary care 
doctor is retiring. I was repeatedly told that the doctor had a full practice and was not accepting new 
patients. The harsh reality that our peninsula has a shortage of primary career doctors amplifies the lack 
of thought and foresight for the needs of our citizens. The irresponsible building of hundreds of affordable 
homes will create a medical catastrophe because of this shortage.  
 
Additionally, each day there are more and more news articles about the water shortage in the West 
because of the historic drought we are experiencing. Imagine the amount of water needed in all of these 
structures that have been and are being built. Where do you plan to obtain this need in order to supply 
the everyday multiple need for water in these homes? Here is a riveting article about this, and sadly you 
continue to build.  
 
The end of snow threatens to upend 76 million American lives 
Disappearing snowpack is accelerating the historic drought across the Western US, and so far government 
responses haven’t matched the scale of the problem.  
Read in Bloomberg: https://apple.news/AFXdahSKETlSf29wcUCIvQQ 
 
Alarmingly, 
Maureen Zane 
 
243 of 386

--- page 244 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer 
  
Sent: Friday, August 5, 2022 11:39 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comments re Community Design and Historic Preservation; and Conservation, Open 
Space and Recreation 
 
Dear General Plan Community Design and Historic Preservation and Conservation, Open Space and 
Recreation subcommittee,  
 
I am writing to provide comments on the Aug 11 meeting. 
 
I am very glad to see conservation and protecting natural resources as part of the general plan and plans 
to ensure access to nature for all! 
 
Regarding historic preservation, I am so happy to see that alternatives to demolition must be submitted 
for historic buildings. I would encourage the committee to expand this in all cases of construction.  
 
Deconstruction and recycling should be the first option rather than demolition.  
 
According to the EPA, Construction and Demolition debris is the largest source of waste in America, 
more than twice the amount of waste generated by municipal solid waste.  
 
San Mateo is a leader in waste reduction, as with finding reasonable solutions to support businesses 
transitioning to compostable take out containers. Construction and demolition debris must be 
addressed.  
 
US EPA Best Practices for Reducing, Reusing, and Recycling Construction and Demolition Materials  
 
CalRecycle C&D Recycling Tools for Contractors, Local Governments, and Processors 
 
Deconstruction: The Story of Two Homes (video) 
 
Also regarding historic preservation, consider creating education and training programs, like in San 
Antonio, Texas.  
 
Thank you very much for considering my comments.  
 
Best, Kristie Eglsaer  
 
244 of 386

--- page 245 ---
From: Jim Sell 
  
Sent: Monday, August 8, 2022 1:42 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height and Density 
 
Dear Planners, 
Current height, density and parking requirements make it mathematically impossible to build affordable 
housing in San Mateo.  I own two R4 lots in the block adjacent to El Camino and W. 3d, nine years ago I 
had an evaluation done to develop housing on the property .  The study projected that 22 two bedroom 
units would need to sell for 1.5 to 1.8 million and take 3 to 4 years to complete.  Our zoning laws make it 
affordably impossible West of El Camino. 
Jim Sell 
650 465 1569 
 
Virus-free. www.avast.com  
 
 
245 of 386

--- page 246 ---
From: zorigt@gmail.com 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 9, 2022 8:33 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment on Caltrain Noise 
 
I am a registered voter in San Mateo City. I would like to suggest San Mateo City should implement 
Caltrain quiet zone similar to Atherton. Especially in downtown San Mateo area, the trains blast their 
horns nonstop all through the downtown area since there are so many railroad crossings. It's disruptive 
to residents and businesses in the affected areas. For example: trains run from 5am - past midnight, how 
does one get restful sleep. It's a non-stop alarm clock. Maybe start with a pilot program on 9th St 
railroad crossing.  
 
https://www.ci.atherton.ca.us/456/Quiet-Zone 
 
At 12:01 AM on Monday, June 13, 2016, the Atherton Fair Oaks Q uiet Zone was officially 
established by the Town of Atherton. Railroad Q uiet Zones can be established based on 
criteria outlined in the Final Rule on Use of Locomotive Horns at Highway-Rail Grade 
Crossings (Final Rule), which was made effective on June 24, 2005 by the Federal 
Railroad Administration (FRA) and amended on August 17, 2006. 
 
Thanks for the consideration, 
Zorigt Bazarragchaa 
 
246 of 386

--- page 247 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
RECOMMENDED ALTERNATIVE  
HISTORIC RESOURCES ELEMENT 
GENERAL PLAN 2040 
HISTORIC RESOURCES  
The Historic Resources component of the General Plan confirms the City’s 
commitment to the protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of historic 
resources as economic, cultural, and aesthetic benefits to the City of San Mateo. 
GOALS 
GOAL CD-3.1 Identify and preserve historic, architectural and cultural resources, 
including individual properties, districts and sites, to maintain San Mateo’s sense of 
place and special identity, and to enrich our understanding of the city’s history and 
continuity with the past.  
GOAL CD-3.2 Use historic preservation principles as an equal component in the 
planning and development process. Fully integrate the consideration of historic, 
architectural and cultural resources as a major aspect of the City's planning, permitting 
and development activities. 
GOAL CD-3.3 Ensure compatibility between new development and existing historic, 
architectural and cultural resources.   
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P3.1 Historic Resource Definition. A district, landscape, object, sign, site, 
or structure significant in American archeology, architecture, culture, engineering, or 
history that is either designated or eligible for designation under city, state, or national 
criteria. 
Policy CD-P3.2 Historic Preservation. Identify and preserve historic buildings, 
districts and sites, unless proven not feasible.   
Policy CD-P3.3 Demolition. The City shall consider demolition of historic resources as 
a last resort, to be permitted only if rehabilitation of the resource is not feasible, 
demolition is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, or the 
public benefits outweigh the loss of the historic resource. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
1 of 3
247 of 386

--- page 248 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Policy CD-P3.4 Historic Districts. Actively identify and protect concentrations of 
buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere 
of exceptional architectural interest or integrity, when they meet national, state or local 
criteria.  
Policy CD-P3.5 Downtown Historic District. Maintain the identified historic district 
along portions of 3rd Avenue and B Street, and continue to implement regulations to 
protect the overall historic and architectural character and integrity of the area.  
Policy CD-P3.6 Scale and Character of New Construction in Historic Districts. 
Promote an architecturally sensitive approach to new construction in Historic districts. 
Demonstrate the proposed project’s contextual relationship with land uses and 
patterns, spatial organization, visual relationships, cultural and historic values, and 
relationships in height, massing, modulation, and materials. 
Policy CD-P3.7 Downtown Building Heights. Relate the height of new buildings to 
the pattern of downtown and to the character of existing and proposed development. 
New development shall be encouraged to step down towards some existing buildings 
in order to be compatible with the pattern of Downtown. 
Policy CD-P3.8 Historic Surveys and Context Statements. For areas that have not 
been surveyed, the City shall seek funding to prepare new historic context surveys. In 
these surveys, the potential eligibility of all properties 45 years and older for listing in 
National, California or local registers shall be evaluated. 
Policy CD-P3.9 Historic Structure Renovation, Rehabilitation, and Adaptive 
Reuse. Promote the renovation and rehabilitation of historic structures that conforms 
to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for 
Rehabilitating Historic Structures and the California Historical Building Code and 
prioritize historic structures for available rehabilitation funds.  
Policy CD-P3.10 Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the 
City's historic, architectural, cultural and archaeological resources and educate the 
community about how to preserve and improve these resources.  
Policy CD-P3.11 Historic Preservation Funding. Pursue and promote historic 
preservation funding sources to incentivize the protection of historic resources such as 
the California Mills Act Property Tax Abatement Program and Federal Historic 
Preservation Tax Incentives Program.  
 Policy CD-P3.12 Encourage both public and private stewardship of the City's 
historic and cultural resources. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
2 of 3
248 of 386

--- page 249 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
ACTIONS  
Action CD-A3.1 Incorporate preservation as an integral part of the general plan, 
specific plans, environmental processes, planning, permitting, and development 
activities.  
Action CD-A3.2 Historic Resources Survey. Establish and maintain an inventory of 
architecturally, culturally, and historically significant structures, districts and sites. 
Proactively update and maintain an up-to-date historic resources inventory.  Actively 
seek funding opportunities to update the historic survey.  
Action CD-A3.3 Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update and maintain the City’s 
Historic Preservation Ordinance to be consistent with State and Federal standards and 
guidelines, and to support local historic preservation objectives.  Incorporate zoning 
tools such as Historic Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZs) and conservation districts. 
Action CD-A3.4 Historic Design Standards. Create objective design standards for 
development within commercial and residential historic districts and adjacent 
properties, to maintain the historic character of these resources. Revise the Downtown 
and Historic District Design Standards to give consideration to new development within 
a historic preservation context.   
Action CD-A3.5 Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives 
to full demolition on how to preserve a historic building as part of any planning 
application and implement methods of preservation unless health and safety 
requirements cannot be met. 
Action CD-A3.6 Encourage and assist owners of historically significant buildings 
in finding ways to adapt and rehabilitate these buildings, including participation in state 
and federal tax relief programs. 
Action CD-A3.7 Streamline, to the maximum extent feasible, any future processes for 
design review of historic structures to eliminate unnecessary delay and uncertainty for 
the applicant and to encourage historic preservation. 
Action CD-A3.8 Preservation Incentives. Create incentives to preserve historic and 
cultural resources such as reducing parking requirements, allowing a flexible use, or 
establishing a transfer of development rights program.  
Action CD-A3.9 Create incentives to encourage salvage and reuse of discarded 
historic building materials. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
3 of 3
249 of 386

--- page 250 ---
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
 
 
 
 
August 11, 2022 
Mr. Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director 
VIA EMAIL 
General Plan Subcommittee 
Community Development Department 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
 
Dear Mr. Dahl and General Plan Subcommittee Members:  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments regarding the proposed 5. Community 
Design and Historic Resources Element of the 2040 General Plan. The San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
(SMHA) submitted suggested revised policies yesterday. It is especially important to include 
the initial discussion of Principles. We support the SMHA revisions to the City’s document.  
The comments below reference the Policies and Actions in the City’s Goals, Policies, and 
Actions to emphasize certain points.  
NATURAL LANDSCAPES AND THE URBAN FOREST 
Policy CD-P2.3 
New Development Requirements.  
Add protection of tree roots to the policy to protect the health of the trees during construction. 
Damage to roots can be fatal to trees. 
“Require the protection of trees and their roots during construction activity; …” 
HISTORIC RESOURCES 
Please replace these goals, policies, and actions with those presented by the San Mateo Heritage 
Alliance (submitted August 10, 2022). 
Policies 
Policy CD‐P3.1 Historic Preservation. This should be a policy to identify and preserve 
resources. The City must follow the law, not just “where feasible.” 
Policy CD‐P3.2 Historic Districts. Insert “Identify and” at the beginning of the policy. The City 
is currently not conducting adequate review or protection of historic district must follow the 
direction of the State Historic Preservation office, which states: 
250 of 386

--- page 251 ---
Mr. Zachary Dahl 
General Plan Subcommittee 
August 11, 2022 
Page 2 
 
 
Local government surveys should consider the presence of potential historic districts 
which may be eligible for national, state or local designation or may warrant special 
consideration in local planning such as the development of design guidelines, historical 
preservation overlay zones (HPOZs), conservation zones, or review by a historic 
preservation commission prior to granting permits for demolitions or other actions which 
could alter or destroy district contributors. 
State Historic Preservation Office website  https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/?page id=23317  
Policy CD‐P3.7 Demolition Alternatives. This policy is too narrowly defined to be only 
National Register‐eligible resources This policy should apply to all pre‐war structures to 
preserve the integrity of our neighborhoods, minimize waste diverted to a landfill, and foster 
sustainable development. 
Actions 
Action CD‐A3.1 Historic Building Survey. This action should address historic districts as well 
as buildings and sites. “Establish and maintain an inventory of architecturally, culturally, and 
historically significant structures, and sites, and districts. 
Action CD‐A3.2 Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update and maintain the City’s Historic 
Preservation Ordinance to be consistent with State and Federal standards and guidelines, and to 
support local historic preservation objectives. 
Action CD‐A3.4 Historic Design Standards. Create objective design standards for development 
within historic districts or and adjacent to historic structures and/or culturally important sites to 
maintain the historic character of these resources. 
In my letter to Zachary Dahl of February 8, 2022 regarding the General Plan Notice of 
Preparation, I requested that the City hold a General Plan EIR workshop to address the scope, 
methodology, and potential mitigation measures for the historic resources sections of the 
General Plan and EIR. You have not yet responded to this request so I am reiterating the request 
here. 
Thank you for your attention to these comments.  
Sincerely, 
Laurie Hietter 
Randy Hietter 
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
251 of 386

--- page 252 ---
From: Janna Kolodi 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 23, 2022 2:37 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Noise from the rail road 
 
Hello,  
it seems like the issue of the train signal/noise will never be resolved. Can you 
revisit this problem and think better about what can be done to minimize the 
torture? There are a lot of people who are affected, elderly and children included 
who lack sleep and rest because of the noise. My heart goes to the people who live 
in close proximity to the rails and I would be mentally broken from having this 
nuisance 24/7 (except for a few hours at night).  
I hope you will include the conversation (at least) in your plan and will try to imrove 
our lives. 
 
Thank you,  
 
--  
Janna Kolodii 
 
 
252 of 386

--- page 253 ---
Name: Janna Kolodii 
Email: 
 
Message: Infrastructure is important for each city and San Mateo is not an exception. I have recently 
moved to SM from the South Bay and noticed right away how in bad shape the city was, especially North 
San Mateo. Yes, it's an unprivileged people's area and you can see it once you cross the 4th Ave. Roads 
are crumbling, and sidewalks pose immediate hazards. Trash is everywhere and is not being regulated. 
(Owners and landlords must follow the rules and keep their properties and around them neat). I believe 
San Mateo can do better and care about their citizens, and the conditions they live in. Just drive/walk 
along Grant street and you will see the neglect (by the city). It screams "Oh, it will do for them, they are 
used to these conditions". Please change your attitude and make the area as nice as other streets. Thank 
you 
 
--- 
 
Date: August 23, 2022 
Time: 9:30 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 
Chrome/104.0.0.0 Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 73.202.225.10 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
253 of 386

--- page 254 ---
From: Khanh Russo <krusso@sff.org>  
Sent: Friday, August 26, 2022 11:48 AM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Aysha Pamukcu <apamukcu@sff.org>; Evita Chávez <echavez@sff.org>;
 
Subject: Equity Focused Input for Housing Elements 
 
Dear City of San Mateo: 
  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San Mateo’s housing element. The 
Partnership for the Bay’s Future (“PBF”) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working to 
create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live and 
thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the 
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of 
affordable housing. 
  
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have 
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we hope San Mateo will consider incorporating 
into the new housing element. We are including the following resources for your review and 
consideration: 
• a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your 
jurisdiction to consider, 
• examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and 
• additional links and resources. 
We believe that your current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which we 
applaud. In addition to the attached equitable policy resources, we are offering technical 
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning if your jurisdiction is interested in 
exploring or developing some of these policies even further. If you have any questions, please 
contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird + Driskell (Kristy Wang, 
wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com). We will follow up with 
you shortly to see if we can provide further support.  
  
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San Mateo’s housing element. We 
appreciate all your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents. 
  
Sincerely, 
  
Khanh Russo 
Vice President of Policy and Innovation 
San Francisco Foundation 
  
 
  
 
254 of 386

--- page 255 ---
Khanh Russo 
Vice President of Policy and Innovation 
One Embarcadero Center, Suite 1400 |  San Francisco , CA 94111
T: (415) 733-8570 |  
krusso@sff.org | www.sff.org
Pronouns: He, Him, His
  
 
 Please follow the Partnership for the Bay's Future on Twitter
Facebook 
LinkedIn 
  
 
 
255 of 386

--- page 256 ---
August 24, 2022
Submitted by email to: Planning@sanramon.ca.gov
RE:
San Ramon’s 6th Cycle Housing Element Update
Dear City of San Ramon:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San Ramon’s housing element.
Your work supporting your community to meet its housing needs is critical in addressing the
current housing affordability crisis. We understand that at this moment in the housing element
process, your jurisdiction is waiting for comments from HCD. As such, we request that you
incorporate additional equitable housing policies into your draft housing element during your
next revision. We offer the attached equitable policy resources as well as potential technical
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning (“B+D”) if your jurisdiction is interested
in this level of support.
The Partnership for the Bay’s Future (“PBF”) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working
to create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live
and thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of
affordable housing.
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we request San Ramon incorporate into the
new housing element. In some cases, these are policies that housing element law requires
jurisdictions to address as a potential action or recommendation in their housing elements, but in
other cases, these are suggested policies that we are raising up as PBF’s equitable planning
priorities. We are including the following resources for your review and consideration:
●
a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your
jurisdiction to consider,
●
examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and
●
additional links and resources.
We believe that San Ramon’s current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which
we applaud. We also believe that all Bay Area communities can take more steps to make their
housing elements more equitable. The attached summaries can be used as resources for staff as
they communicate with both decision makers and the public, and we are happy to provide further
assistance to incorporate these policies into your housing element as well as help draft talking
points that can be tailored for local implementation.
We believe the following policies can play an important role in meeting the requirements of this
housing element and supporting thriving communities, and we request that San Ramon include
them in the next housing element draft:
256 of 386

--- page 257 ---
1. Favorable Zoning and Land Use
○
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
○
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more places
○
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family neighborhoods
○
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
○
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing middle" housing
2. Accelerating Production Timeframes
○
Streamline development approvals and environmental review process for
multifamily housing
○
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3. Reducing Construction and Development Costs
○
Ensure local requirements are not making development more expensive without
requisite benefits
○
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built construction methods
4. Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing revenue for affordable
housing
5. Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
○
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
○
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6. Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the formation and operation of
community land trusts
7. Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or review/update
inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and commercial linkage fee requirements
8. Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for multifamily housing,
especially in high-opportunity areas
If you have any questions, please contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird +
Driskell (Kristy Wang, wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com).
We will follow up with you shortly to see if we can provide further support, including technical
assistance from the B+D team to further explore some of these policies.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San Ramon’s housing element. We
appreciate your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents.
Sincerely,
Khanh Russo
Vice President of Policy and Innovation
San Francisco Foundation
257 of 386

--- page 258 ---
August 24, 2022
Submitted by email to: Planning@sanramon.ca.gov
RE:
San Ramon’s 6th Cycle Housing Element Update
Dear City of San Ramon:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San Ramon’s housing element.
Your work supporting your community to meet its housing needs is critical in addressing the
current housing affordability crisis. We understand that at this moment in the housing element
process, your jurisdiction is waiting for comments from HCD. As such, we request that you
incorporate additional equitable housing policies into your draft housing element during your
next revision. We offer the attached equitable policy resources as well as potential technical
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning (“B+D”) if your jurisdiction is interested
in this level of support.
The Partnership for the Bay’s Future (“PBF”) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working
to create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live
and thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of
affordable housing.
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we request San Ramon incorporate into the
new housing element. In some cases, these are policies that housing element law requires
jurisdictions to address as a potential action or recommendation in their housing elements, but in
other cases, these are suggested policies that we are raising up as PBF’s equitable planning
priorities. We are including the following resources for your review and consideration:
●
a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your
jurisdiction to consider,
●
examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and
●
additional links and resources.
We believe that San Ramon’s current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which
we applaud. We also believe that all Bay Area communities can take more steps to make their
housing elements more equitable. The attached summaries can be used as resources for staff as
they communicate with both decision makers and the public, and we are happy to provide further
assistance to incorporate these policies into your housing element as well as help draft talking
points that can be tailored for local implementation.
We believe the following policies can play an important role in meeting the requirements of this
housing element and supporting thriving communities, and we request that San Ramon include
them in the next housing element draft:
258 of 386

--- page 259 ---
1. Favorable Zoning and Land Use
○
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
○
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more places
○
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family neighborhoods
○
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
○
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing middle" housing
2. Accelerating Production Timeframes
○
Streamline development approvals and environmental review process for
multifamily housing
○
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3. Reducing Construction and Development Costs
○
Ensure local requirements are not making development more expensive without
requisite benefits
○
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built construction methods
4. Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing revenue for affordable
housing
5. Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
○
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
○
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6. Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the formation and operation of
community land trusts
7. Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or review/update
inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and commercial linkage fee requirements
8. Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for multifamily housing,
especially in high-opportunity areas
If you have any questions, please contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird +
Driskell (Kristy Wang, wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com).
We will follow up with you shortly to see if we can provide further support, including technical
assistance from the B+D team to further explore some of these policies.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San Ramon’s housing element. We
appreciate your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents.
Sincerely,
Khanh Russo
Vice President of Policy and Innovation
San Francisco Foundation
259 of 386

--- page 260 ---
PBF’s Priorities for 6th Cycle 
Housing Elements
August 2022
260 of 386

--- page 261 ---
Priority Policies and Actions
1.
Favorable Zoning and Land Use
•
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
•
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more 
places
•
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family 
neighborhoods
•
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
•
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing 
middle" housing
2.
Accelerating Production Timeframes
•
Streamline development approvals and environmental 
review process for multifamily housing
•
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3.
Reducing Construction and Development Costs
•
Ensure local requirements are not making development 
more expensive without requisite benefits
•
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built 
construction methods
4.
Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing 
revenue for affordable housing
5.
Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
•
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
•
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6.
Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the 
formation and operation of community land trusts (CLTs)
7.
Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or 
review/update inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and 
commercial linkage fee requirements
8.
Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for 
multifamily housing, especially in high-opportunity areas
261 of 386

--- page 262 ---
Make multifamily infill easier to develop

Explore the following policies and programs:

ww

Revise development codes: Review multifamily development
standards to allow greater density, including floor area ratio, height
limits, minimum lot or unit sizes, setbacks, lot coverage and/or
allowable dwelling units per acre.

Reduced parking requirements: Adopt policies that reduce parking
minimums, establish parking maximums and encourage other
practices that reduce cost and the amount of space dedicated to
cars.

Eliminate design standards: Eliminate or replace subjective
development and design standards with objective standards that
simplify zoning clearance and improve approval certainty and
timing.

Form-based codes: Establish form-based codes that can be paired
with by-right approvals.

EXAMPLES

San Francisco, Berkeley and San Diego have
eliminated minimum parking requirements in
new housing development. San Francisco also
has parking maximums.

Redwood City's Downtown Precise Plan links
adherence to development standards with a

streamlined approvals process.

262 of 386


--- page 263 ---
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in
more places

Explore the following policies and programs:

In mixed-use zones where commercial uses outcompete residential uses,
cities could:

. EXAMPLES
* Change zoning standards: Offer greater FAR, height and other
zoning standards for residential developments in mixed use zones. Redwood City's Mixed-Use Neighborhood
District allows greater height and FAR for

* Encourage mixed-use: Require applicants to build housing when residential-only and mixed-use buildings

applying to build commercial developments in mixed use zones than for commercial-only buildings.

Cities can also ensure their regulations don't preclude the development

of microunits, single room occupancy (SRO) buildings. JU Selo ese uer seul plecillte

regulations to allow for co-living housing
types.

263 of 386


--- page 264 ---
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single

family neighborhoods

Explore the following policies and programs:

* Rezoning: Rezone in single-family neighborhoods to allow
additional ADUs, duplexes, triplexes and other small-scale

multifamily ("missing middle") housing

* New standards and guidelines: Establish design and development
standards and guidelines that support missing middle housing types

* $B 9 ordinances: Develop local SB 9 implementing ordinances that
encourage and support the creation of small-scale multifamily
housing rather than merely comply with state requirements.

EXAMPLES

Portland has established a strong missing middle
policy, including their Better Housing by Design work,
focused on design guidelines and related zoning code
changes in multi-family zones, and the Residential Infill
Project development standards focused on single
family neighborhoods.

Eugene, Oregon approved Middle Housing Code
Amendments to comply with state law. The

amendments include smaller minimum lot sizes, lot size
reductions for affordable units, parking reductions for
housing built near transit, and other changes.

264 of 386


--- page 265 ---
Provide incentives for affordable housing developme

Explore the following policies and programs:

* Overlay zones: Establish an affordable housing overlay zone to
encourage the production of below-market-rate affordable housing

with targeted incentives or relaxed requirements that go beyond EXAMPLES
state density bonus law Menlo Park's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone
* Incentives for developers: Offer zoning concessions and fee Foster City's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone

exemptions as incentives to developers of multifamily housing
projects which meet [JURISDICTION]'s housing needs, in exchange

Oakley's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone

for an agreement that more than [#%] of the total number of units Sumyvale's waiver of parking requirements
constructed will be affordable to lower-income households Half Moon Bay's waiver of development
standards

6
265 of 386


--- page 266 ---
Provide incentives for deed-restricted affordable AD

and "missing middle" housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

Lot splits: Allow nonprofits and community land trusts (CLTs) to sell
deed restricted affordable ADUs separately from the main house.

Increase ADUs per lot: Allow nonprofits /CLTs to build two detached,
deed restricted, affordable ADUs per property.

Community partnerships: Develop zoning standards that provide
additional flexibility to nonprofits /CLTs that want to build ADUs,
including 2-story ADUs.

Upzoning partnerships: Allow nonprofits/CLTs to convert single
family homes into deed restricted, affordable duplexes, triplexes or
quads (more permissive than SB 9)

Density bonuses: Develop rules that extend the density bonus to 100
percent affordable projects smaller than 5 units.

EXAMPLES

San Diego allows an extra ADU on a site that has
reached the maximum ADU limit if the extra one is
deed-restricted affordable.

Piedmont has flexibility built into their ADU ordinance

where larger ADUs are permitted if they are deed
restricted affordable for low-income households.

Pasadena incentivizes the creation of ADUs
affordable to Section 8 voucher holders with incomes
below 80% of AMI. The city offers comprehensive
assistance (with financing, designing, permitting, and
constructing) and low-interest construction loans.

LA ADU Accelerator matches homeowners with older
renters, providing landlord support and reliable rent
in return for affordability.

LA Mas's Backyard Homes Project

266 of 386


--- page 267 ---
Streamline development approvals and environment
review process for multifamily housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

In locations that have not yet met their housing targets, SB 35 pairs a
streamlined approval process with objective design standards for infill
projects that provide a certain level of affordability and comply with EXAMPLES

existing residential and mixed-use zoning and other requirements.
J y 4 Redwood City s Downtown Precise Plan

Localities could take it further by: allows for the ministerial approval of certain

multifamily infill projects.
* Establishing by-right zoning and local systems/dedicated staff for

more types of housing beyond SB 35-eligible projects

* Establishing by-right zoning in certain areas or neighborhoods

267 of 386


--- page 268 ---
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

Improve application processes: Review application review and
approvals process to identify improvements (convene stakeholders,
hire an outside firm).

Pre-application checks: Establish pre-application checks to ensure
that applications are complete before submission.

One-stop-shops: Establish one-stop-shop permitting process and/or
a single point of contact for coordinating permitting across city
approval functions (e.g., planning, public works, building) from
entitlement application to certificate of occupancy.

Special expedited permits: Establish priority permit processing or
reduced plan check times for specific categories of housing
(ADU/JADUs, multifamily housing, affordable housing, etc.)

EXAMPLES

San Diego has an expedited permitting process for
affordable, infill and sustainable buildings.

Seattle has a expedited approvals program for new
construction projects that meet certain sustainability

requirements.

San Francisco's Mayoral Executive Directives on ADUs
and setting timelines for approvals have sped up
permitting processes by providing a rationale to
create a sense of urgency and focus city staff.

San Jose had "ADU Tuesdays" at the city's permit
counter in order to streamline ADU permit processing.

268 of 386


--- page 269 ---
Ensure local requirements do not make
development more costly without requisite benefits

Explore the following policies and programs:

¢ Flexible standards: Provide additional
flexibility on development standards, including * EXAMPLES
parking standards, for affordable housing
Half Moon Bay’s zoning code allows for
¢ Reduce construction costs: Review current flexibility in the application of development

local construction requirements and building standards for affordable housing projects

standards for excessive and costly terms

269 of 386


--- page 270 ---
Actively support the use of modular and factory-
built construction methods
11
Explore the following policies and programs:
• Expedited permits: Establish a clear and expedited approval and permitting process for modular 
and manufactured homes.
• Pre-fab trainings: Conduct or require a training for building officials and relevant staff to ensure 
they are aware of current state processes and requirements and how they intersect with local 
authority/responsibilities.
270 of 386

--- page 271 ---
Generate new revenue and/or dedicate existing
revenue towards affordable housing

Explore the following policies and programs:
EXAMPLES

In 2016, Santa Clara County voters and Alameda
County voters approved general obligation bonds for

* Explore new or increased taxes: Generate new dedicated
revenue for affordable housing. This could include:

* Sales tax increases affordable housing through Measure A ($950 million
. ae in Santa Clara County) and Measure Al ($580 million
General obligation bonds in Alameda County).

* Transient occupancy taxes
paney In 2018, Oakland voters approved a vacant property

* Parcel taxes tax that generates revenue for homeless services.
e
Head taxes By resolution, San Mateo County's Board of
* Business license (landlord) taxes Supervisors established funding priorities — including
affordable housing uses — for 2016's Measure K half-
* Real estate transfer taxes

cent sales tax extension.
* Vacant property and vacancy taxes
In 2012, San Francisco established its Housing Trust
* Prioritize existing revenue: Establish priorities or set-aside existing Fund through a set-aside in the General Fund.

local general funds for affordable housing.

12
271 of 386


--- page 272 ---
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies

Explore the following policies and programs:

Under California's Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (AB 1482):

* Rent cannot be increased more than 5% + your local CPI (Consumer EXAMPLES

Price Index) OR 10% annually — whichever of these is lower.
Several Bay Area jurisdictions have rent

Localities could take it further by: stabilization policies that go beyond state law
(such as smaller allowed rent increases),

* Adopting a local ordinance with a smaller allowable annual rent including:

increase * San Francisco

* San Jose

* Adopting a local ordinance that does not sunset in 2030 * Oakland
* Berkeley

Localities could also dedicate funding and resources toward education * East Palo Alto

and enforcement. * Mountain View
* Richmond

272 of 386


--- page 273 ---
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies

Explore the following policies and programs:

California’s Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (AB 1482) limits the reasons for
which tenants can be evicted. This law does not cover all buildings or all
tenants. It expires on Jan. 1, 2030.

Localities could take it further by:
* Applying protections on day 1 of a tenancy (instead of day 365)

* Requiring landlords to have a permit in hand before evicting tenants using
the "substantial remodel" provision

* Passing a local ordinance that is permanent

* Expanding just cause eviction policies to cover new construction, single-
family homes and condominiums

Localities could also dedicate funding and resources toward education and
enforcement.

EXAMPLES

Berkeley, East Palo Alto and Oakland
are some Bay Area jurisdictions that
have existing permanent Just Cause

evictions ordinances.

Most rental units in Oakland and

Richmond are subject to their just
cause eviction ordinances.

273 of 386


--- page 274 ---
Support the formation and operation of community |

trusts (CLTs)

Explore the following policies and programs:

Eligibility: Ensure CLTs are eligible for local housing funding.

Opportunity to Purchase: Establish a right of first offer/refusal that
gives nonprofits /CLTs enhanced ability to buy property

CLT Incubation: Establish an initiative to support the incubation or
creation of a new community land trust. Provide financial support to
CLTs in the early stages of organizational development.

CLT Pipeline Development: Study the feasibility of requiring new
inclusionary ownership units to be stewarded by a CLI.

Extra Flexibility: Give CLTs extra flexibility to develop /steward
ADUs, allowing CLTs to sell ADUs to low-income buyers and giving
CLTs more flexibility with development standards (multiple ADUs, 2-
story ADUs, etc.). See affordable ADU slide

* EXAMPLES

In 2018, New York City funded a citywide
CLT initiative to support the
incubation/expansion of 10 CLTs

Cities like Irvine and Chicago have city
sponsored /chartered CLTs that manage the
affordable ownership stock.

274 of 386


--- page 275 ---
Create or review/update inclusionary housing and
commercial linkage fee requirements

Explore the following policies and programs:

Establish New Inclusionary Requirements: Require the provision of
affordable housing by the private sector through an inclusionary
requirement for market-rate housing (including in-lieu fee options) EXAMPLES

and a commercial linkage fee paid by new commercial Inclusionary housing requirements have been

development. widely, but not universally, adopted by
jurisdictions across the Bay Area.

Regularly Update Inclusionary Requirements: Conduct an

inclusionary housing feasibility study in [20XX] and develop policy San Mateo (city) and Boulder, CO are two

recommendations on inclusionary zoning in [20XX]. examples of small to midsized cities that
have set up strong inclusionary programs that
deliver affordable units and maintain
affordability over time.

275 of 386


--- page 276 ---
Ensure that land is equifably zoned for multifamily
housing, especially in high-opportunity areas

Explore the following policies and programs:

Zoning: Rezone sites for multi-unit housing in high resource areas,

Public Land: Set-aside publicly owned land in high opportunity
areas for housing development.

Affordable Housing Siting Policy: Develop an affordable housing
siting policy to provide affordable housing equitably across a
jurisdiction.

Tax Credit Competitiveness: Conduct an analysis of a jurisdiction's

geography for tax credit amenity scoring,

* Zone more land for multi-family in amenity-rich areas, and do land
assembly /acquisition in places that score highly for tax credits

* Address gaps in communities that do not score highly for tax credit amenities,
especially if they are high resource areas

EXAMPLES

Los Angeles's 6th Cycle housing element includes an
objective to "Increase the utilization of public land _for
affordable housing with particular emphasis in high
resource and gentrifying areas."

Seattle has a development siting policy that seeks to
provide housing opportunities for the lowest-income
and the most vulnerable populations across the city,
including amenity-rich neighborhoods.

San Jose has begun a process to develop an
affordable housing siting process to ensure the city
meets its fair housing and affordable housing goals,
including providing affordable housing in higher-
opportunity neighborhoods.

276 of 386 |


--- page 277 ---
Other equitable housing policies for further exploration
18
• Anti-tenant harassment policies (Oakland and Concord)
• Preservation policies including acquisition/rehab models
• Transit Oriented Communities (TOC) policies 
Explore the following policies and programs:
277 of 386

--- page 278 ---
baysfuture.org

‘ THE
| BAY’S
* FUTURE HOME ABOUTUS THEOPPORTUNITY CONNECT WITHUS NEWS

me)
Rat
a b

278 of 386


--- page 279 ---
From: Raayan Zarandian Mohtashemi 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 2:47 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: August 30th Subcommittee Meeting Comments 
 
Dear General Plan Subcommittee, 
Attached are my comments regarding the draft circulation element, along with one comment regarding 
the draft land use element. I have reviewed the draft circulation element, and proposed revised 
language and additional policies and actions throughout the document. Thank you for your review. 
 
Raayan Mohtashemi 
Team Lead, Move San Mateo (Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition San Mateo Local Team) 
 
279 of 386

--- page 280 ---
Dear General Plan Subcommittee, 
Below is my preliminary review of the circulation element (with one comment regarding the land 
use element). One broad comment I would make is that while it is good to recognize the 
importance of multimodal streets, we should, in the general plan, clarify that active 
transportation modes are to be prioritized. 
 
When reviewing the circulation plan, I encourage you to ask: does the policy/program focus on 
one or more of the following? 
1. Increasing active transportation (walking, biking, other micromobility) mode share 
2. Increasing transit mode share 
3. Reducing driving 
4. Making biking or walking safer 
5. Making transit faster/more convenient 
 
Further, some elements that should be included in the plan, in my opinion: 
6. El Camino Road diet, and/or El Camino HOV/bus-only lanes/BRT improvements 
7. Higher standards for bicycle boulevards (not just pavement markings and signage) 
8. Cost of parking better reflecting the negative impacts that cars have on safety and 
livability of cities 
9. A reexamination of the capital program’s alignment with the general plan goals, policies, 
and actions, and alignment with the state climate action plan for transportation 
infrastructure and other climate goals 
10. Fully funding the re-evaluated capital program 
11. Connecting divided neighborhoods 
a. Put a cap on Highway 101, to replace the freeway with a mixed-use 
neighborhood with abundant housing and open space. 
b. Grade separations, El Camino Real Improvements, and Hwy 92 Improvements 
12. Move away from LOS analysis to determine “feasibility” of certain active transportation 
improvements 
13. Invest more staff time/bandwidth and funds in active transportation and transit 
improvements as opposed to roadway improvements 
 
Below, please see my specific proposed revision to the goals, policies, and actions listed in the 
draft circulation element. I have bolded/highlighted where I am proposing a revision, and I have 
listed each draft statement as it appears in the draft plan for comparison. 
 
Thank you, 
Raayan Mohtashemi 
 
 
 
280 of 386

--- page 281 ---
Goal C-1: Multimodal Transportation 
Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and 
accessible for all users and that connects the community utilizing all modes of transportation. 
 
Revised language: “Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that prioritizes 
transit and active transportation modes, is sustainable, safe, and accessible for all users, and 
connects the community.” 
 
Policies: 
1. C-P1.1 - Sustainable Transportation: Reduce GHG emissions from transportation by 
increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as walking, bicycling, and 
transit. 
a. Revised language: “Reduce VMT and GHG emissions from transportation by 
increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as active 
transportation and transit modes.” 
2. C-P1.2 - Complete Streets: Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are streets 
designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age 
or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving. 
a. Revised language: “Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are 
streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users 
regardless of age or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, 
or driving. Complete streets standards should clarify that active transportation 
and transit mobility should be prioritized over driving convenience.” 
3. C-P1.3 - Vision Zero: Work towards eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Use 
a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, 
emergency response, and maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities to 
improve safety where conflicts between users exist. 
4. C-P1.4 - Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs: Prioritize pedestrian and 
bicycle mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection 
improvements. 
a. Revised language: Prioritize Active Transportation and Transit Mobility Needs 
(Active transportation and transit first policy): “Prioritize active transportation and 
transit mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection 
improvements.” 
5. C-P1.5 - El Camino Real: Prioritize high-capacity travel along El Camino Real 
a. Revised language: “Prioritize high-capacity travel and safety for active 
transportation and transit modes along El Camino Real” 
6. C-P1.6 - Transit-Oriented Development: Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the City’s Caltrain stations and transit corridors 
281 of 386

--- page 282 ---
a. Revised language: “Increase access to transit and active transportation options 
by encouraging high density housing-heavy mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the City’s Caltrain stations and transit corridors.” 
7. C-P1.7 - Equitable Multimodal Network: Prioritize new amenities, programs and 
multimodal projects, developed based on community input and data analysis, in San 
Mateo’s disadvantaged neighborhoods 
8. C-P1.8 - New Development Fair Share: Require new developments to pay a 
transportation impact fee to mitigate cumulative transportation impacts 
9. C-P1.9 - Dedication of Right-of-Way for Transportation Improvements: Require 
dedication of needed right-of-way for transportation improvements identified in adopted 
City plans, including pedestrian facilities, bikeways, and trails. 
10. C-P1.10 - Inclusive Outreach: Involve the community in the City’s efforts to design and 
implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and accessible 
for all users. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage broad 
representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved 
communities. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A1.1 - Complete Streets Plan: Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the City’s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street users of all 
ages and abilities. 
a. Revised language: “Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the City’s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street users 
of all ages and abilities and prioritize active transportation and transit modes.” 
2. C-A1.2 - Vision Zero Plan: Complete and regularly update a Plan that uses a safe 
systems approach to work towards Vision Zero and identifies specific citywide changes 
to policies, practices, funding, and other action items that will reduce speeding, 
collisions, and collision severity. 
3. C-A1.3 - El Camino Real Plan: Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners 
to prepare and implement a plan to accommodate higher capacity and frequency travel 
along El Camino Real, exploring Bus Rapid Transit and other modes of alternative 
transportation. 
a. Revised language: “Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners to 
prepare and implement a plan to accommodate safer, higher capacity, and 
higher frequency travel along El Camino Real, such as Bus Rapid Transit, bicycle 
facilities, and other modes of alternative transportation.” 
4. C-A1.4 - Safe Routes for Seniors: Develop a “safe routes for seniors” program to 
promote active transportation connections for seniors in collaboration with seniors’ 
organizations. Prioritize improvements for seniors in disadvantaged communities. 
5. C-A1.5 - Data Driven Approach to Project Design and Prioritization: Inform the 
prioritization of improvement projects through the consistent collection and analysis of 
modal activity data which reveals where the highest concentration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
and transit trips occur. 
282 of 386

--- page 283 ---
6. C-A1.6 - Safety Education: Pursue safety education to increase awareness for all street 
users 
7. C-A1.7 - Transportation Funding: Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in these plans. 
a. Revised language: Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable, dedicated funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in 
these plans. 
8. C-A1.8 - Transportation Fees: Adopt and maintain fees and fiscal policies to fund 
circulation improvements and programs equitably and achieve operational goals. 
9. C-A1.9 - Performance and Monitoring: Monitor the City’s mode split progress on 
reducing VMT and reducing GHG emissions from VMT, as data is available. 
10. Proposed action: Review projects in the city's capital improvement plan based on their 
alignment with the State Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure and other 
climate goals. Modify projects and/or project list based on recommendations from this 
review. 
11. Proposed action: Establish a realistic, ambitious, time-based goal to fully complete all 
infrastructure projects outlined in the city’s revised capital improvement program and 
improvements outlined in other plans. Identify increases in staffing levels needed in 
order to meet that goal. 
 
 
Goal C-2: Transportation Demand Management 
Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number and length of single-
occupancy vehicle trips and encourage sustainable travel behaviors through policy, zoning 
strategies, and targeted context-appropriate programs and incentives. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P2.1 - TDM Requirements: Require new or existing developments that meet specific 
size, capacity, and/or context conditions to implement TDM strategies. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A2.1 - Implement TDM Ordinance: Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance 
for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. Consider 
parking requirement reductions for projects that include TDM measures. 
a. Revised language: “Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance for new 
developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. 
Reduce parking requirements for projects that include TDM measures. 
283 of 386

--- page 284 ---
2. C-A2.2 - TDM Education and Outreach: Pursue education for developers and employees 
about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the resulting 
benefits. 
3. C-A2.3 - Leverage TDM Partnership Opportunities: Work with regional partners to 
identify and fund TDM strategies that can be implemented at new and existing 
developments. 
4. C-A2.4 - Facilitate TDM Services: Facilitate the provision of TDM services to employees 
and residents through development agreements, TMAs, and coordination with regional 
partners. 
5. C-A2.5 - Travel to Schools: Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number of 
students walking or bicycling to school through expanded implementation of Safe Routes 
to School. Prioritize school travel safety improvements in disadvantaged communities. 
a. Revised language: “Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number of 
students getting to school with active transportation or transit through expanded 
implementation of Safe Routes to School. Prioritize school travel safety 
improvements in disadvantaged communities.” 
6. Action C-A2.6 - New Development Shuttle Services: As an option to fulfill TDM 
requirements, encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from 
activity centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and 
schedules of all riders, including service workers. 
a. Revised language: New Development Shuttle Services and/or Transit 
Supplement: “As an option to fulfill TDM requirements, encourage new 
developments to provide shuttle services to and from activity centers such as the 
College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the Hillsdale Shopping 
Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and schedules of all 
riders, including service workers. Alternatively, encourage new developments to 
fund SamTrans transit service in an equal or greater amount as to the cost of 
running shuttle service.” 
7. C-A2.7 - Unbundled Parking: Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs 
of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by 
unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces. 
a. “Require all residential developments to unbundle the costs of providing 
dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by 
unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces in areas with 
high parking demand.” 
8. Proposed Action: Parking cashout and post-tax transit/active transportation benefits: 
“Require all new developments that do not unbundle parking to offer a parking cash-out 
program and to provide a post-tax transit or active transportation equal in value to the 
cost of providing vehicle parking.” 
 
284 of 386

--- page 285 ---
Goal C-3: Pedestrians 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network that provides access to 
community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, shopping and recreation. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P3.1 - Pedestrian Network: Create and maintain a safe, walkable environment in San 
Mateo to increase the number of people who choose to walk. Maintain an updated 
recommended pedestrian network for implementation. 
2. C-P3.2 - Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development: Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in adopted City master 
plans. Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-oriented design to facilitate 
pedestrian path of travel. 
3. C-P3.3 - Right-of-Way Improvements: Require new developments to construct or 
contribute to improvements that enhance the pedestrian experience including human-
scale lighting, streetscaping, and accessible sidewalks. 
4. C-P3.4 - Utility Undergrounding: Require new private development to underground 
utilities adjacent to the site. 
5. Proposed policy: Guarantee safe access to recreational spaces, including but not 
limited to open spaces and car-free streets, for all modes of transportation. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A3.1 - Implement Pedestrian Improvements: Implement goals, programs, and projects 
in the City’s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of the 
pedestrian network. 
2. C-A3.2 - Utility Underground Requirements: Amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
require new private development to underground utilities on and adjacent to the site and 
to install and maintain signs, streetlights, and street landscaping adjacent to sidewalks. 
3. C-A3.3 - Pedestrian Trails and Routes Awareness: Increase awareness of existing trails 
and routes by working with outside agencies and developers to promote these amenities 
to residents. Continue collaborating with the County on development of the trail network. 
4. C-A3.4 - Access for Users of All Ages and Abilities: Implement the ADA Transition Plan 
and maintain accessible streets and sidewalks. Use industry standards for guidance 
when implementing design standards. 
5. C-A3.5 - Pedestrian Connectivity: Incorporate design for pedestrian connectivity across 
intersections in transportation projects to provide safe interaction with other modes. 
6. C-A3.6 - Safe Routes to School: Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide support 
to increase number of students walking to school. 
a. Revised language: “Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide 
285 of 386

--- page 286 ---
support to increase the number of students using active transportation or transit 
to get to school.” 
7. C-A3.7 - Downtown Pedestrian Mall: Complete design and fund improvements to fully 
transition B Street between 1st Street and 3rd Street into a pedestrian mall. 
a. Revised language: “Complete design and fund improvements to fully transition 
B Street between 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue into a pedestrian mall. Extend the 
pedestrian mall to B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 1st Avenue. 
8. Proposed action: Require the safety and quality of sidewalks fronting all properties to 
be assessed at point of sale. Require the existing or new owner to repair the sidewalk if 
minimum safety/quality conditions are not met. Provide exemptions for low income 
individuals from this requirement. Prioritize sidewalk repair program funding for 
historically marginalized/equity priority communities and/or for low income individuals. 
9. Proposed action: Implement bulbouts and daylighting at all intersections to reduce 
crossing distances and improve line of sight, taking into account conflicts with bicycle 
facilities. 
10. Proposed action: Implement lead pedestrian intervals and automatic actuation 
pedestrian signals at all signalized intersections. 
 
Goal C-4: Bicycles and Micromobility 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and micromobility network that 
provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, 
shopping, and recreation. 
Revised language: “Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and 
micromobility network that provides access to community destinations such as employment 
centers, transit, schools, shopping, and recreation. Ensure that every street ensures a minimum 
level of safety and falls below a maximum level of traffic stress for bicyclists and other 
micromobility users, depending on roadway characteristics.” 
 
Policies 
1. C-P4.1 - Bicycle Network: Create and maintain a bike-friendly environment in San Mateo 
and increase the number of people who choose to bike. 
2. C-P4.2 - Bicycle Master Plan: Maintain an updated recommended bicycle network for 
implementation in the adopted Bicycle Master Plan and related City plans. 
3. C-P4.3 - First- and Last-Mile Connections: Encourage and facilitate provision of bicycle 
safety and connectivity. 
4. C-P4.4 - Bicycle Related Technology: Explore ways to use technology to improve bicycle 
safety and connectivity. 
5. C-P4.5 Bicycle Improvements: Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience including bike lanes. 
6. C-P4.6 - Coordination with other City Projects: Maximize opportunities to implement 
bicycle facilities through other City of San Mateo projects. 
286 of 386

--- page 287 ---
7. C-P4.7 - Interjurisdiction Coordination: Continue to coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions 
and regional partners in the development of connected bicycle and pedestrian facilities 
and regional trails as identified in adopted City plans. 
8. Proposed policy: Ensure that every street maintains a basic level of safety and falls 
below a maximum level of traffic stress for bicyclists and other micromobility users, 
depending on roadway characteristics. 
9. Proposed policy: Switch parking and bike lanes so that bike lanes are closest to the 
curb, and parking provides a buffer between the vehicle travel lane and the bike lane. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A4.1 - Bicycle Master Plan Implementation: Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s 
recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, safe, and 
logical bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. Update the Bicycle 
Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future bicycle and micromobility 
facility needs to support the City’s circulation network. Provide an adequate supply of 
short- and long-term bicycle parking to support increased ridership. 
a. Revised language: “Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, safe, and logical 
bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. Update the Bicycle 
Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future bicycle and 
micromobility facility needs to support the City’s circulation network. Provide an 
adequate supply of short- and long-term bicycle parking, including publicly 
accessible secure and covered bicycle parking, to support increased ridership. 
2. C-A4.2 - Paving Coordination: Coordinate and fund the implementation of bicycle 
facilities identified in the Bicycle Master Plan with the City’s paving program. 
3. C-A4.3 - Connectivity Across Freeway Barriers: Conduct feasibility studies and design 
alternatives for overcrossings at US 101 and SR 92 to facilitate connectivity across 
major barriers. 
4. C-A4.4 - Bay Trail: Identify State and County programs to continue pursuing safe 
pedestrian and bicycle access to and extension of the San Francisco Bay Trail through 
coordination with neighboring jurisdictions. 
5. C-A4.5 - Crystal Springs: Pursue safe pedestrian and bicycle access to San Francisco 
Water District lands via Crystal Springs Road through coordination with the Town of 
Hillsborough and with State and County assistance. 
6. C-A4.6 - Bicycle Detection Devices: Install innovative signal modifications on existing 
and planned bikeways to detect bicyclists and micromobility users’ presence at 
intersections and facilitate their safe movement through the intersection. 
7. C-A4.7 - Increased Bicycle Capacity on Caltrain and SamTrans: Coordinate with Caltrain 
and SamTrans to support increased bicycle capacity on transit vehicles and to provide 
an adequate supply of secure covered bicycle and micromobility parking at Caltrain 
stations, transit centers, and major bus stops. 
8. Proposed action: Identify and implement dedicated funding sources for bicycle master 
plan implementation 
287 of 386

--- page 288 ---
9. Proposed action: Reconnecting communities: Unite the North Central and Shoreview 
communities by capping hwy 101 from Peninsula Avenue to Highway 92 interchange, 
creating a new neighborhood and safe east-west multimodal connections. 
10. Proposed action: Adopt minimum traffic calming standards for all streets including but 
not limited to modal filters and speed cushions. 
11. Proposed action: Create a modal filter program to restrict cut-through traffic on 
residential streets. 
12. Proposed action: More aggressively pursue a shared micromobility operator, and work 
with the County and region to attract a multi-jurisdictional operator already operating in 
major cities in the region. 
13. Proposed action: Prioritize quick-build projects to more quickly implement infrastructure 
plans. 
 
 
Goal C-5: Transit and Mobility Services 
Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by supporting frequent, reliable, 
cost-efficient, and connected service. 
Revised language: “Make transit a viable and prioritized transportation option for the 
community by supporting frequent, reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service.” 
Policies: 
1. C-P5.1 - Increase Transit Ridership: Work with SamTrans and Caltrain to increase 
transit ridership. 
2. C-P5.2 - Caltrain: Support Caltrain as a critical transit service in the City and Peninsula 
3. C-P5.3 - California High Speed Rail: Support and facilitate local and regional efforts to 
implement High Speed Rail. Work to provide multimodal connections between San 
Mateo and planned High Speed Rail stations. 
4. C-P5.4 - Safety at At-Grade Rail Crossings: Eliminate existing at-grade rail crossings to 
improve safety and local multimodal circulation. 
5. C-P5.5 - Transit Safety: Prioritize improvements to increase safety, access, comfort, and 
educate the public about the benefits of transit use at transit centers and bus stops in 
disadvantaged communities, along commercial corridors, and in dense, mixed-use 
neighborhoods. 
6. C-P5.6 - Transit Access in New Developments: Require new development projects to 
incorporate design elements that facilitate or improve access to public transit. 
7. Proposed Policy: Prioritize transit and active transportation mode travel at intersections 
and on congested roadways. 
Actions 
1. C-A5.1 - Grade Separation Study: Conduct a grade separation feasibility study for all at-
grade rail crossings in San Mateo. Identify funding to complete these grade crossing 
improvements. 
288 of 386

--- page 289 ---
2. C-A5.2 - Transit Experience Improvements: Prioritize installing new transit shelters and 
benches or other seating and an energy-efficient street lighting program at transit stops 
in disadvantaged communities and areas that improve transit access, safety and 
experience. 
3. C-A5.3 - Transit Ridership: Coordinate with SamTrans, Caltrain, and Joint Powers Board 
(JPB) to support implementation of transit improvements, including the following: 
a. Transit priority treatments, such as signal priority, on high frequency transit 
corridors 
b. Extended hours to provide service for shift workers 
c. Bus rapid transit (BRT) in San Mateo 
d. Caltrain modernization, electrification, transit experience improvements, and 
increased service frequency 
e. Support implementation of Caltrain’s business plan, including increased service 
to San Mateo’s three stations. 
f. Improve Caltrain station access by ensuring sidewalks and bikeways near each 
station are designed to provide safe and convenient access to and from transit 
g. Support regional transit integration and expansion efforts to improve seamless 
access to BART, High Speed Rail, and other regional transit systems 
4. C-A5.4 - Shuttle Programs: Continue to support public shuttle programs connecting to 
Caltrain stations. Work to expand public awareness and access to shuttles and expand 
shuttle service. Support the implementation of publicly accessible private shuttles. 
5. Proposed action: Microtransit: Evaluate cost-benefit ratio of cost to ridership demand 
for microtransit service in lower density portions or equity priority communities in the 
City. 
 
 
Goal C-6: Roadway Improvements 
Achieve a transportation system that accommodates future growth, reduces vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) per capita, and maintains efficient operations for all modes. 
 
Revised language: “Achieve a transportation system that improves user safety, reduces 
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita, and maintains efficient operations for all modes, with 
safety and reduced vehicle speeds prioritized over efficient operations.” 
 
Policies 
1. C-P6.1 - Roadway Operations: Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all 
intersections and all modes within the City. 
a. Revised language: “Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all intersections 
and all modes within the City without adding additional automobile capacity, 
including turn pockets, to the roadway, in alignment with state climate goals.” 
(One more lane won’t fix it) 
289 of 386

--- page 290 ---
2. C-P6.2 - Circulation Improvement Plan: Maintain a transportation network that will 
accommodate future growth, reduce VMT per capita, and equitably implement complete 
streets. 
3. C-P6.3 - Local Transportation Analysis: Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for 
development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on the roadway 
system. 
4. C-P6.4 - Neighborhood Traffic: Implement traffic calming measures on residential streets 
to reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds. 
a. Revised language: Implement traffic calming measures on residential streets to 
reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds. Such traffic 
calming measures should include, but not be limited to, modal filters, turn 
restrictions, traffic diverters, and speed cushions. 
5. C-P6.5 - Truck Routes: Maintain and update the truck route network to utilize roadways 
that are adequately designed for truck usage and minimize potential conflicts with other 
transportation modes. 
6. C-P6.6 - Capital Improvement Program: Prioritize improvements that increase person 
throughput in project prioritization in order to reduce VMT. 
a. Revised language: “Prioritize improvements that increase person throughput 
without adding automobile capacity to the system in project prioritization in order 
to reduce VMT, in alignment with state climate goals.” 
7. C-P6.7 - Traffic Signal Installation: A warrant analysis may be used to determine the 
need for signalization and shall include consideration of both existing and projected 
traffic and pedestrian volumes, traffic delays and interruptions, collision history, and 
proximity of sensitive land uses, such as schools. A development project may be 
required to fund signalization and maintenance of off-site unsignalized intersections if 
warranted as determined by the appropriate transportation analysis. 
8. Policy C-P6.8 - Emergency Signal Preemption - Require new and upgraded signals to 
include pre-emption for emergency vehicles to maintain and enhance emergency 
response times. 
9. Proposed policy: Take actions to physically reduce the speeds of vehicles on most 
streets in the City to below 25 mph. 
10. Proposed policy: Realign capital improvement program with the state climate action 
plan for transportation infrastructure 
11. Proposed policy: Incentivize the adoption of speed governors. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A6.1 - Multimodal Level of Service Standard - Evaluate and adopt an operational 
metric for all roadway users that accounts for the safe, equitable, and efficient roadway 
access. 
2. C-A6.2 - Prioritization and Timing of Roadway Improvements: Revise the Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) prioritization system to include additional criteria such as: 
potential to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita; proximity to high-injury 
290 of 386

--- page 291 ---
locations identified in the Local Roads Safety Plan; eligibility and availability of grant or 
other funding source; benefit or harm to disadvantaged communities; and correlation 
with the distribution and pace of development, reflecting the degree of need for 
mitigation. 
3. C-A6.3 - Congestion Management: Work with neighboring agencies and regional 
partners, such as the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County 
(C/CAG) to implement traffic management strategies and technologies, such as signal 
coordination, to manage local traffic congestion. 
4. Proposed action: Implement speed governors on the entire non-emergency city fleet so 
that all vehicles in the fleet operate at safer, slower speeds. 
5. Proposed action: Provide a tax break/rebate to owners of vehicles registered to 
residents or employees in San Mateo that use speed governors to incentivize the 
adoption of speed governors. 
 
Goal C-7: Parking Management 
Use parking, enforcement and curb management strategies to effectively administer parking 
supply and maximize utilization of public assets. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P7.1 - Parking Management: Manage parking through appropriate pricing, 
enforcement, and other strategies to support economic growth and vitality, transportation 
equity, and environmental sustainability. Ensure that the available parking supply is 
utilized at levels that meet ongoing needs without inducing additional demand or 
hindering future development. 
2. C-P7.2 - Shared parking: Encourage new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing parking 
supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and encourage “park once” 
behavior in commercial areas. 
a. Revised language: “Require new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing 
parking supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and encourage 
“park once” behavior in commercial areas.” 
3. C-P7.3 - Public Parking: Maximize opportunities to expand the availability of existing 
parking by supporting the use of public/shared parking at private developments, 
discouraging reserved parking at new developments, providing incentives for 
developments to include shared/public parking, and allowing developers to fund public 
parking in-lieu of meeting parking demand/requirements on site. 
4. C-P7.4 - Bicycle Parking: Require the provision of bicycle parking as part of new private 
developments. 
5. C-P7.5 Curbside Management: Manage the supply and utilization of the curb to maintain 
an optimal balance between mobility, storage, placemaking, and loading uses allowing 
291 of 386

--- page 292 ---
for flexibility for adaptive re-use, safety improvements, and activation of curb space 
whenever possible. 
6. C-P7.6 - Loading Areas in New Developments: Require adequate off-street loading in 
new development. Consider shared loading where feasible. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A7.1 Parking Maximums: Amend the zoning ordinance to replace parking minimums 
with parking maximums to allow developers and the City the flexibility to provide parking 
at levels that encourage desired development and are appropriate to the conditions of 
the development and its context. 
2. C-A7.2 - Parking Management Strategies: Deploy enhanced parking management 
strategies, parking enforcement, and evaluate dynamic parking pricing strategies that 
fluctuate based on peak parking and/or district level parking demands. 
a. Revised language: “Deploy enhanced parking management strategies, parking 
enforcement, and implement dynamic parking pricing strategies that fluctuate 
based on peak parking and/or district level parking demands.” 
3. C-A7.3 - Curbside Management Strategies: Evaluate and implement curb management 
strategies such as incentivizing or discouraging certain types of trips, mode choices, and 
behaviors in favor of broader mobility goals. 
4. C-A7.4 - Emerging Technology for Curbside Management: Evaluate and implement 
performance monitoring and evaluation systems, such as digitization of curbside assets, 
to dynamically manage evolving curbside demands. 
5. C-A7.5 - Truck Loading: Evaluate and implement ways to reduce conflicts between truck 
loading and pedestrian, bicycle, and transit networks. 
6. C-A7.6 - Public Bicycle Parking: Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City facilities, 
and transit facilities. 
a. Revised language: “Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City 
facilities, and transit facilities. Also install secure, covered, bicycle parking near 
key destinations, City facilities, and transit facilities.” 
7. C-A7.7 - Mechanical Parking Lift: Adopt and maintain an updated mechanical parking lift 
code or policy 
 
Goal C-8: Future Mobility and Technology 
Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership framework that flexibly 
encourages emerging transportation technologies in service of City and community goals. 
 
292 of 386

--- page 293 ---
Policies: 
1. C-P8.1 - Emerging Technologies: Monitor, evaluate, test, and implement new 
technologies that expand options for safe and efficient trip making. 
2. C-P8.2 - Equitable Mobility Options: Prioritize the needs and perspectives of residents of 
disadvantaged communities, those who speak limited English, and low-income, senior, 
and disabled travelers in the design, deployment, and management of new mobility 
services and technologies. 
3. C-P8.3 - Mobility Data: Leverage mobility data to support new policies, investments, and 
programmatic actions in service of City goals. 
 
Actions: 
1. C-A8.1 - Umbrella Regulations for Modern Mobility: Develop comprehensive regulations 
and infrastructure standards that are not exclusive to specific service providers and that 
support a spectrum of digital information, micromobility services, and connected and 
autonomous vehicles. 
2. C-A8.2 - Strategic Partnerships and Pilots: Create strategic partnerships and pilots with 
the mobility industry and community organizations that increase mobility options for San 
Mateans. 
3. C-A8.3 - Future-Ready Infrastructure: Establish public realm policies and tools that 
reflect San Mateo’s goals and priorities in the design and management of streets, curbs, 
sidewalks, and parking facilities to account for emerging mobility trends and changes in 
demand over time. 
4. C-A8.4 - Equitable Mobility Technology: Develop an equitable mobility policy and data 
sharing requirements for vendors to ensure equitable deployment of emerging mobility 
options with consideration of residents who may be digitally challenged. 
5. C-A8.5 - Intelligent Transportation Systems: Evaluate and deploy Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (ITS) measures to efficiently manage traffic operations and 
incident response, enhance transit service efficiency, and better detect and prioritize the 
travel and safety of people walking and biking. 
 
 
One point about land use: 
Action LU-A8.5 - North Central Plan: Prepare a plan for North Central that addresses the 
community’s health and safety needs and improves circulation patterns in the neighborhood 
based on community direction. Balance safety improvements with preserving the existing 
parking supply. 
Proposed revision: “Prepare a plan for North Central that addresses the community’s health and 
safety needs and improves circulation patterns in the neighborhood based on community 
direction. Improve safety while optimizing existing parking supply.” 
293 of 386

--- page 294 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 8:32 PM

To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo

Name: Sean Lacson

Email:

Message: Hello, | am a member of Move San Mateo, a sub branch of Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition. | am
also a member of Peninsula For All. My comments are my own.

| recently attended the General Plan Subcommittee Meeting #12 held on 8/30 at 6pm. One of the
subcommittee member's comments was about policy Policy C-P5.1. They asked why it was necessary to
have this goal in the General Plan, as the city cannot do much to increase ridership.

| argue that there are ways the city can create policies in the general plan to help increase ridership and
reduce single occupancy vehicle trips. One way is to create a policy within goal LU-3 to actively find ways
to rezone single family zones in underserved neighborhoods to mixed use zoning. Underserved
communities are often food/service deserts because the nature of single family zoning excludes retail
and services businesses from operating in those areas. By creating diverse zoning in food deserts, the
city can encourage active transportation over vehicle use, and work with transit agencies to expand bus
routes into these neighborhoods.

Additionally, the city can use Policy LU-P14.1 Inter-Agency Cooperation as an example for increasing
transit ridership. The city should create a policy to find ways for Caltrans and and Samtrans to cooperate
with other transit agencies to coordinate schedules and create synergistic transit routes. One example
would be for Caltrans and BART to cooperate more on seamless transfers between stops at the Millbrae
station. Seamless transfers create a positive and realistic alternative to vehicle trips. Another would be
for SamTrans and AC Transit to bring back the Hayward-Hillsdale bus line, but with more frequent trips
to encourage service workers and shoppers alike to use the bus over vehicles for trips across the San
Mateo bridge.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Best,
Sean Lacson

Date: August 31, 2022

Time: 3:31 am

Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online

User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/104.0.5112.102 Safari/537.36

Remote IP: 24.7.20.159

Powered by: Elementor

294 of 386


--- page 295 ---
From: Levaggi, Scott 
  
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 9:59 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown SM 
 
Team 
 
Closing down B street is step in right direction.  Now we need to make it look desirable. 
I suggest  
1. Get rid of plastic road blocks and get professional.  That can be raised or lowered below ground 
if needed to have emergency vehicles drive down 
2. 
 
 
 
The City needs to build “CONSISTENT” permanent structures that would still allow for emergency 
vehicles to drive down middle of b street if needed. 
You need to make consistent and classy.  Not fold down table and chairs.  Make it enjoyable to walk the 
street.  Even string Lights from one side of the  
Street to the other (attach to buildings) to create ambiance. 
295 of 386

--- page 296 ---
Pass cost on to landlords as you are giving them increased footage that they did not have before…. 
Finally level the street and make it presentable… 
 
 
Thanks for listening  
 
Scott Levaggi 
 
 
296 of 386

--- page 297 ---
This message, and any attachments, is for the intended recipient(s) only, may contain information that is 
privileged, confidential and/or proprietary and subject to important terms and conditions available at 
http://www.bankofamerica.com/emaildisclaimer. If you are not the intended recipient, please delete 
this message. 
 
297 of 386

--- page 298 ---
From: Ken A red 
  
Sent: Monday, September 5, 2022 2:26 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Gita Dev 
; Gladwyn d'Souza 
 
Subject: Fwd: Council Meeting Sept 6, 2022: Sierra Club Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, 
and Actions, July 2022 
 
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Gita Dev <
 
Date: September 5, 2022 at 1:29:22 PM PDT 
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
Cc: Sierra Club Chair Conservation Comm Gladwyn d'Souza 
, Ken A red 
 
Subject: Council Meeting Sept 6, 2022: Sierra Club Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, 
and Actions, July 2022 
  
Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council 
City of San Mateo 
Via email: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions, July 2022 
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the San Mateo City Council and Planning Commission,  
The Sustainable Land Use Committee of the Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra Club (SLU) advocates on 
land use issues in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. Thank you for providing the opportunity for SLU 
to provide input on the Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions, July 2022. 
The overall draft is a good start, but there is still opportunity for improvement.  SLU has previously 
commented on the evolving General Plan (GP) in three major letters (May 13, 2021, February 16, 2022 
and April 26, 2022). We ask that you review those letters as they all make significant comments on the 
GP. In this letter we will highlight the most important themes from our earlier letters, with comments on 
five chapters (2, 3, 4, 6 and 8). The attachment to this letter will comment specifically on the certain 
goals, policies and actions in the draft.  
Major Themes: 
298 of 386

--- page 299 ---
1. The lack of housing, particularly affordable housing, is a major crisis and needs to be strongly 
addressed. Much higher housing density is needed, particularly within ½ mile of transit. See our 
Guideline for Downtown and Station Area plans 
(https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraclub.org/files/sce-authors/u4142/D-
SAP%20Guidelines%20Rev%2010-14-19.pdf) 
2.  The changes envisioned by the GP need to use this opportunity to green the city. The GP needs 
to pursue Green Streets, more parks/open space, and more pedestrian and bike paths. See our 
Guidelines on Green Streets (https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraclub.org/files/sce-
authors/u4142/Green%20Streets%20Presentation%20-%201-20-21%20DC.pdf) 
3.  The GP needs to more clearly advance concepts to make more neighbors compact and 
walkable. This includes the 15-minute neighborhood and Barcelona “superblocks” concepts. 
4.  Resilience and Sea Level Rise need to be fully planned for and should emphasize nature -based 
approaches for adaptation to rising sea levels and flooding. 
 In the following,  we provide specific comments to the Goals, Policies and Actions. 
We ask that you consider these comments as you refine and finalize the GP. 
Respectfully Yours,  
  
  
 
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-Chair 
Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
 Cc:   James Eggers, Executive Director, Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
Gladwyn d’Souza, Conservation Chair, Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________-- 
 
299 of 386

--- page 300 ---
SIERRA CLUB specific Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions - July 2022 
Below are specific comments on Chapters 2, 3, 4, 6 and 8:  
1. Suggested additions are in italics and bold, suggested deletions are strike through  . 
2. We also list those Policies that we feel are particularly important to include. 
 Chapter 2 Land Use 
1. Make Goal LU-1 much stronger and focused on addressing the housing crisis, Suggested 
rewording; 
 Plan carefully for orderly growth that, with a high degree of certainty, fully provides ample for the 
housing and job opportunities for all citizens, maximizes efficient use of infrastructure, limits 
adverse impacts to the environment and improves social, economic, and health equity. 
2. Modify Policy LU-P1.3 to emphasize housing in mixed use development. Suggested rewording: 
Policy LU-P1.3 Mixed-Use. Encourage mixed-use developments to include a strong residential 
component provide greater proximity between jobs and housing, promote pedestrian activity, and 
reduce traffic congestion. Any office space in Mixed Use should be for local uses, by people in San 
Mateo County and not for corporate offices. 
3. Policy LU-P2.3. Building Height and Density;  
This item was left open for suggestions. Increased density is a way to help assure the needed 
housing gets built and will allow for more walkable communities with amenities nearby. Allowing 
more height is a way to create more open space for green streets, parks, etc.  
Suggested wording: Utilize higher density (e.g., up to 50-200 units per acre) in areas near the train 
stations and along El Camino Real (ECR).  Also allow increased height (6-10 stories) in the areas 
near train stations and along ECR. 
4. Policy LU-P2.4. Building Intensity; 
This item was also left open for suggestions.  But it is not clear what Building Intensity means. 
Perhaps the suggestion above on density and height addresses intensity.  
5. Policy LU-P4.1 Downtown Land Uses. 
This is an important Policy to retain as proposed below: 
 Allow and encourage a wide range of residential, office, medical, dining, entertainment, and retail 
uses downtown, at high intensities and densities, with strong connectivity to the San Mateo Caltrain 
station and other transit. 
300 of 386

--- page 301 ---
6. Action LU-A4.1 Downtown Area Plan.  
This is an important Policy to retain as proposed below: 
Update the Downtown Area Plan to support and strengthen the Downtown as a vibrant and active 
commercial, cultural and social district. The updated Downtown Area Plan shall align with the 
General Plan, integrate recommendations from other concurrent City efforts, focus growth and 
intensity in proximity to the Caltrain station, update parking standards and parking management 
strategies, allow for increased housing units and density, and support high quality pedestrian-
oriented design and architecture. 
7. Goal LU-6 is very important, as are the Policies and Actions below it. All should be retained as 
listed below.  
Goal LU-6: Promote transit -oriented development around Hillsdale Caltrain station 
Policy LU-P6.1 Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan). Implement the 
Corridor Plan to allow, encourage, and provide guidance for the creation of world class transit-
oriented development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale Caltrain station area, while 
maintaining and improving the quality of life for those who already live and work in the area.  
Policy LU-P6.2 Hillsdale Shopping Center. Allow redevelopment of the Hillsdale Shopping Center for 
a mix of uses, including commercial, retail, office, hotel, and residential uses. Require preparation of 
a Master Development Plan to ensure the site is developed comprehensively and provides 
appropriate transitions to the adjacent neighborhoods. 
Action LU-A6.1 Hillsdale Station Area Plan. Update the Hillsdale Station Area Plan to foster higher 
density residential and mixed-use, transit-oriented development that connects to neighborhoods to 
the east and west, improves bicycle and pedestrian circulation and adds park and open space areas. 
8. Modify Goal LU-13 to include seeking to reduce the costs and time to develop affordable 
housing. Suggested changes below: 
Goal LU-13: Maintain Development Review and Building Permit processes that are comprehensive 
and efficient and seek ways to responsibly reduce the costs and time to develop affordable 
housing.  
 Chapter 3: Circulation 
1. Make Policy C-P1.2 to be broader and include Green Streets. Modified below: 
Policy C-P1.2 Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects both in 
the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are streets designed to facilitate 
safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age or ability or whether they are 
walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving. Complete streets should include a network of “slow and 
safe streets” with priority for the safety of pedestrians, bicycles and micromobility, where auto 
301 of 386

--- page 302 ---
traffic is slowed, and which includes green landscaping and shade trees as well as green street 
stormwater infrastructure to reduce runoff and pollution.   
2. Policy C-P1.4, Policy c-P1.6 and Action C-A2.7 are important to implement 
Policy C-P1.4 Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize pedestrian and bicycle 
mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection improvements. Include 
“Vision-Zero” as a goal to reduce fatalities and accidents with pedestrians and bicyclists. 
Policy C-P1.6 Transit-Oriented Development. Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented development near 
the City’s Caltrain stations and transit corridors. 
Action C-A2.7 Unbundled Parking. Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs of 
providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by unbundling to 
be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces. 
3. Goals C-3, C-4, C-5 and C-8 as well as Action C-A3.1 are particularly important to implement. 
Goal C-3: Build and maintain a safe, shaded (with street trees), connected, and equitable pedestrian 
network that provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, 
schools, shopping and recreation. 
Goal C-4: Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and micromobility network 
that provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, 
shopping, and recreation. 
Goal C-5: Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by supporting frequent, 
reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service. 
Goal C-8: Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership framework that flexibly 
encourages emerging transportation technologies in service of City and community goals. 
Action C-A3.1: Implement Pedestrian Improvements. Implement goals, programs, and projects in 
the City’s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of the pedestrian 
network. 
Chapter 4: Housing- see end of this letter. 
 Chapter 6: Conservation, Open Space, Parks and Recreation 
1. Several Goals are particularly important implement: COS-1, COS-2, COS-3, COS-8, COS-9 
COS-1: Protect and enhance the City's natural resource areas that provide plant and animal habitat 
and benefit human and ecological health and resilience. 
302 of 386

--- page 303 ---
COS-2: Ensure that current and future generations will enjoy the environmental, social, health, and 
economic benefits derived from access to our urban forest, parks and open spaces. 
COS-3: Protect and improve San Mateo’s creeks as valuable habitat, green infrastructure, and 
components of human and environmental health. Provide adequate creek setbacks  given greater 
anticipated storm events as well as sea level rise. 
COS-8: Provide equitable and convenient access to parks, recreational programs, and facilities so 
that all residents experience the benefits of parks and open space on their physical and mental 
health. 
COS-9: Provide the appropriate mix of parks and facilities that balances the needs of active and 
passive facilities, allows formal and informal uses, is accessible for all residents, and meets existing 
and future recreation needs. 
2. Modify Policy COS-P3.5 and COS-P3.6 to strongly encourage the improvement of the creek 
habitats for San Mateo Creek and for Laurel Creek. 
  San Mateo Creek is in an area that is targeted for redevelopment in both the Downtown and 
Shoreview area. Laurel Creek is in the Hilldale redevelopment area. Both are now mostly concrete 
lined ditches. Any development will provide the opportunity to get the creeks back to a natural 
setting and provide the opportunity for plants, fish, insects and animals in the creek and restored 
riparian areas. This would provide new valuable open space and parks for people as well. And this 
will be an educational opportunity for children of San Mateo to see the creek environment in a 
natural setting. See suggested modifications below: 
Policy COS-P3.5 Hydrologic Impacts. Ensure that improvements to creeks and other waterways do 
not cause adverse hydrologic impacts or significantly increase the volume or velocity of flow of the 
subject creek. The priority will be to use nature-based improvements to reduce hydrologic impacts.  
Policy COS-P3.6 New Creekside Development Requirements. Require that new creekside 
development protect and improve setbacks, banks, and waterways adjacent to the development 
project in order to increase flood protection and enhance riparian vegetation and water quality. This 
will be a particular focus for Laurel Creek near Hillsdale Mall and San Mateo Creek in Shoreview 
and Downtown. 
3. Policy COS-P9.2 and COS-P9.3 are particularly important to implement. And allowing higher 
building height well make implementation more likely since more open space will be available.  
Policy COS-P9.2 Acreage Standards. Acquire or accept for dedication two acres of neighborhood and 
community parks per 1,000 residents. 
 Policy COS-P9.3 Walkable Parks and Amenities. Provide accessible public park or other recreational 
opportunities that are within approximately 1/3 of a mile of residents without travel over significant 
barriers. Ideally, one or more of the following amenities should be available: multi-purpose turf 
303 of 386

--- page 304 ---
area, children's play area with pre-school and youth apparatus, seating areas, picnic areas, a 
multiuse court, and an opportunity for passive enjoyment of an aesthetic landscaped space. 
Chapter 8: Safety 
1. Goal S-4 is particularly important implement as are Actions S-A4.5 and S-A4.6. These actions fit 
with the earlier comments to use the redevelopment around Laurel Creek and San Mateo Creek 
to restore natural features that will help protect against sea level rise.  
Goal S-4: Develop regionally coordinated sea level rise adaptation measures and programs. 
 Action S-A4.5 Natural Infrastructure. Use or restore natural features and ecosystem processes 
where feasible and appropriate as a preferred approach to the placement of hard shoreline 
protection when implementing sea level rise adaptation strategies. 
Action S-A4.6 Removal of Hard Infrastructure. Remove existing shoreline or creek bank protective 
devices when the structure(s) requiring protection are redeveloped, removed, or no longer require a 
protective device. 
Chapter 4: Housing: Our letter of April 26th 2022 commented on the draft Housing Element and so our 
comments are still as noted in that letter.  
However, we would like to make some additional suggestions here on possible mechanisms that the 
city could utilize to better assure that more affordable housing will be built: 
1.  Do not upzone and give away any aspects of any revisions to the zoning code by right; but instead 
trade increased zoning density and benefits for significant community benefits - the topmost which 
should be affordable housing.  This can be done by establishing a base density below what is generally 
desired while instituting a local density bonus scheme which encourages zoning increases, and benefits 
above State density bonus law in exchange for substantial community benefits.  This was an effective 
approach in Millbrae during Millbrae's review of the BART Station Area Plan. 
Upzoning by right without any off-setting limitations will only increase the cost of land for both for-profit 
and non-profit developers which will translate into even more expensive housing in residential-zoned 
areas.  
2. Do not establish specific maximum density limits for any multi-family residential project, but instead 
let the density of each project be determined by objective design standards using a form-based code 
and vetting and approval of all community benefits proposed by the developer. This allows for a wider 
variety of unit types from micro-units and SROs to family and luxury units. It also allows for greater 
flexibility in determining the most valuable community benefits.  
3. Require all new office building and R&D developers to present a plan to the city indicating how the 
developer will aid the city in supporting the amount of new housing construction needed to house any 
net increase in new employees.  This could be in the form of substantial financial set asides for new 
304 of 386

--- page 305 ---
housing, or actually building enough new housing on or off-site, but the goal must be to strive for a 
reasonable jobs / housing balance within the city.  It’s important to link commercial development to the 
jobs/housing balance because, too often, cities accept in lieu fees or on or off-site new housing off-sets 
that are far too small to meet the anticipated need.   
4. 4. Add Transfer of Development Rights to the toolkit: Climate change is accelerating the 
displacement of people due to sea level rise flooding, wildfires, water availability, and extreme 
heat. Consider using Transfer Of Development Rights similar to the Syufi Theater site, East of 
101,  in Redwood City to increase density in safer receiving locations like downtown and reclaim 
land from sending areas for creating restored ecosystem to buffer the force of flooding with 
landward migrating wetlands and to reduce the risk of wildfire with rehydrated landscapes. 
Though FEMA picks up all liability from continuing to flood and burn out residents, planning for 
impacts, can return positive economic benefits to the city from resilient development, safety, 
and reduced disaster mitigation.  
5. 5Consider micro grids as a resilient Community Benefit: Climate change is increasing health 
impacts to vulnerable populations with smoke intensity, power safety shutdowns, and extreme 
heat and water cutbacks requiring alternative power and water. Consider encouraging housing 
that incorporates energy, waste, and water microgrids, that can provide resilient shared 
resources in the face of increasing health impacts and function within local distributed grids.  
END 
 
305 of 386

--- page 306 ---
From: Catherine Marreiro 
>  
Sent: Thursday, September 8, 2022 10:25 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: adam.william.nugent@gmail.com; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Letter to the Planning Commission for Sept. 13 General Plan goals discussion (amended) 
 
Dear members of the planning commission and planning staff,  
 
My apologies for a second letter, we realized we had mistakenly listed a couple of people on Claremont 
who actually are on delaware.  
 
The Land Use Alternatives maps were a tremendous undertaking and we appreciate staff’s efforts in 
creating them. With hundreds of tiny squares on these maps, there may be some missing elements and 
this is where we would like to take the opportunity to address a potential concern with the designation 
for the block at 545 First Ave., the current site of Hassett Hardware. 
 
This site, at the corner of Delaware Street, is where the commercial uses of downtown transition to the 
residential area of North Central San Mateo. The immediate residential uses are mainly single-story 
houses with a few two-story houses. There is also a three-story condominium building on the block. The 
Hassett site, along with the Andrews Building immediately to the north, is currently zoned commercial, 
with a 50-foot cap. 
 
The Land Use Alternatives map designates the section of this block as both mixed-use medium 4-7 
stories next to residential low 1-3 stories on the same block. On paper, the transition may make sense 
since the highest use for residential is 3 levels and lowest use for mixed-use is 4 levels. In reality, 
however, the current conditions are different. The potential jump up to 7 stories, and possibly up to 9 
with state density bonuses from SB 35, means there is a very real possibility that there could be a 9-
story commercial building immediately next to a single-story residence. While that is a worst-case 
scenario, we worry establishing such zoning could make the possibility real as the new property owner 
for the Hassett site has a history of commercial development. If the adjoining Andrews building is 
purchased by this developer, the potential for this rises. 
 
As part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion, we ask that consideration be provided to 
current uses in residential areas and that zoning reflect the need to transition heights into these areas. 
We also ask that zoning on the same block be compatible. 
 
We enjoy having Hassett here and appreciate its convenience and ability to provide jobs for 
neighborhood youth, and would love for it to stay. We could envision a new development with the 
current store returning on the ground floor and up to 3 levels of housing under the current 50-foot cap. 
We also could see a 3-4 level condominium building with limited parking to address this area’s need for 
“missing middle” housing that transitions from commercial to residential areas. We also understand that 
a 5-level housing development could be built under the current cap. We are absolutely fine with these 
scenarios to varying degrees. As is typically the case with new development with a significant shift in 
land use, we would hope that there would be some accommodations when possible when it comes to 
setbacks, stepbacks and, when possible, retention of daylight planes. 
 
We understand one of the main goals of the General Plan was to provide areas in which new housing 
could be built to address this area’s growing need. We recognize this site’s potential for new housing 
306 of 386

--- page 307 ---
and welcome it as high as 50 feet, if done well and with some accommodations, and would prefer it to 
be slightly lower to transition better to the existing North Central neighborhood, which includes the 
city’s oldest house directly across the street and a number of unique and interesting single-family homes 
in a traditionally low-income area of the city. 
 
However, we would also like to be treated the same as other areas of the city and other blocks, which 
had accommodations for transitions to neighborhoods. Nowhere else in the city is there the potential 
for a current single-story residential use immediately next to a potential 9-story commercial building in 
any of the Land Use Alternatives map. 
 
To summarize, we would like a goal established that any new zoning remain compatible within the same 
block so that heights stay within 2-3 floors of the current average after any density bonuses, that future 
development transition into established neighborhoods, and that the height for any future development 
on the commercial portion of this block be limited to allow for these two requests. 
 
We are submitting this request as part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion but can also 
submit it during the Land Use Alternatives section when the draft General Plan is discussed next year. If 
there is another time for us to submit this request, or any other action we must take, please let us know. 
 
Thanks again for the effort in creating this plan, receiving our concerns, and making the necessary 
modifications. 
 
Catherine and David Marreiro 
31 S. Claremont St. 
 
Woodrow Andrews 
501 First Ave. (Owner of The Andrews Building) 
 
Yan Li 
26 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jessica Huang 
30 S. Delaware St. 
 
Val Lucero 
34 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jon Mays and Dayna Alpine 
38 S. Delaware St. 
 
John Aikin 
45 S. Delaware St. 
 
George and Olga Derby 
105 Delaware St. 
 
Citania Tam 
619 First Ave. 
307 of 386

--- page 308 ---
Gary and Olivia Edwards 
615 First Ave. 
 
Susan and Wayne Purdom 
61 North Claremont St.  
 
 
 
308 of 386

--- page 309 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Rick Ballard 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 4:00 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan feedback for September 13th meeting 
 
Regarding the draft circulation goals and policies, I am strongly in favor of circulation measures which 
put us on a trajectory to reduce car use in San Mateo over time, improve public transit, and ensure safe 
and welcoming urban design for pedestrian and bicycles. Reducing car use is critical for climate, public 
safety, and public health; the electric transition is required but not sufficient for climate goals and does 
not address the public safety impact of cars. 
 
Regarding policies around historic preservation, I encourage the commission to be mindful to employ 
balanced historic preservation requirements so as not to block much-needed housing and transit-
oriented development. Some neighborhood character (specifically with regard to community density) 
may need to change in order to appropriately add housing throughout the city. Additionally, as the 
owner of a historic house myself which needs work including a foundation replacement, I find the 
current regulations around carefully protecting the facade and public character of the house appropriate 
and not burdensome; but adding new regulations should be done carefully so as not to prevent these 
kinds of important projects. 
 
Regarding noise policies, while community noise levels are important to protect, I would encourage the 
commission to be mindful to structure policy requirements so as to avoid placing an undue burden of 
planning process on housing and transit development, and to avoid providing more avenues for a 
minority of community members to hold up development projects unfairly. But noise levels are an 
important part of community health and should be controlled appropriately. 
 
Regarding the water supply policies PS-A2.1 and PS-A2.2, specific promotion of greywater initiatives 
might be warranted. 
 
Thank you, 
- Rick Ballard 
North-Central San Mateo resident 
 
309 of 386

--- page 310 ---
From: Nancy Cussary 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 5:15 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: general plan comments 
 
September 13, 2022 
 
Hello, 
I have concerns about this statement that appears several times in the 
general plan document: "Use outreach and engagement 
methods that encourage broad representation and are 
culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved 
communities". 
 
I think this language needs to be more robust, more resolute, more current, more 
inclusive.  As the statement is currently, it almost seems like an 
afterthought.  Outreach and engagement methods need to not only encourage 
broad representation, they need to include broad representation and hopefully be 
developed by a broad representation.  Further, outreach and engagement methods 
should be more than just culturally sensitive, they should be culturally reflective, 
culturally representative. 
 
Thank you for your Consideration. 
Respectfully, 
 
Nancy Cussary 
Shoreview resident 
 
310 of 386

--- page 311 ---
From: Paul Dagnelie 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 3:23 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
I would like to advocate the return of increased outdoor seating at restaurants in downtown San Mateo. 
A loss of parking spaces is a small price to pay for a more welcoming and friendly downtown space. 
Combined with investments in transit, and walk- and bikeability of areas around the downtown, the 
reduced parking spaces will not be missed, especially since there is almost always garage space open. 
 
In addition, electric vehicle charging should be a priority. The lack of charging points in existing 
apartment buildings will be a blocker to adoption by renters, and homeowners using street parking are 
also challenged. These issues can be mitigated with ample facilities charging reasonable rates available 
in publicly accessible spaces. Even with improvements to mobility in San Mateo, cars will still be a fact of 
life for many residents for some time to come, and reducing the number of fossil fuel vehicles on the 
road is a priority. 
 
 
Paul Dagnelie 
 
311 of 386

--- page 312 ---
September 6, 2022

Zachary Dahl

Deputy Director

City of San Mateo Community Development
330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403
zdah|@cityofsanmateo.org

RE: Housing Element Sites Inventory: 424 No. San Mateo Drive
Dear Mr. Dahl,

As the property owner of 424 No. San Mateo Drive (APN 032-181-370) and business owner in San
Mateo, | am writing to formally request that the City of San Mateo adjust the currently proposed land
use Designation of Mixed-Use Medium to that of Mixed-Use High as identified in Study Area 5 of the
recent City Council Preferred Scenarios.

This property and the others that make up the intersection of north San Mateo Drive and Poplar Avenue
are ideally situated for the future growth the City wishes to see. Proximity to San Mateo’s growing
Downtown to South, easy access to 101 to the East, and connection to Burlingame to the North, have
and will continue to make this site an ideal location.

My property is currently developed with a medical/office building with underground parking. This site,
and those around it, have the potential to create more commercial space and much needed additional
housing through this adjustment to the proposed land use designation. To provide further context, only
a half block away, the Residential High designation has been identified for several blocks of North San
Mateo Drive. The adjustment of the 424 No. San Mateo Drive parcel to Mixed-Use High would be in
keeping with that same intent.

| thank you in advance for your time reviewing this matter and consideration of this request.
| very much appreciate all the effort that has gone into the General Plan Update process thus far and
look forward to the final steps of environmental review, adoption, and implementation.

&nbsp;
312 of&nbsp;386


--- page 313 ---
From: Keith Weber 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 15, 2022 3:13 PM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Margaret Williams 
<mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning Commission Meeting 9/27/22 
 
Hi Zach, 
Attached please find a pdf of San Mateo Heritage Alliance's Recommended Alternative Historic 
Resources Element, General Plan 2040.  It has been revised since it was submitted to the GP 
Subcommittee. 
 
Please forward to the Planning Commission and include it in the 9/27/22 Planning Commission agenda 
packet. 
 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance was formed in 2022 in response to community concerns about 
losing irreplaceable historic resources and the resulting erosion of neighborhood character and 
sense of place that makes San Mateo the special community we call home.  San Mateo 
Heritage Alliance believes that economic growth and resource protection are not mutually 
exclusive, but partners in a more prosperous future.  We believe it is important to protect our 
heritage as it adds character and distinctiveness to our community and provides a sense of 
identity.  We also believe the only way to ensure that San Mateo lives up to its General Plan 
2040 vision of being a healthy, resilient, vibrant and diverse community, is to grow stronger by 
identifying, protecting and preserving its irreplaceable historic resources. 
 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber for 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
 
313 of 386

--- page 314 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
RECOMMENDED ALTERNATIVE  
HISTORIC RESOURCES ELEMENT 
GENERAL PLAN 2040 
HISTORIC RESOURCES  
The Historic Resources component of the General Plan confirms the City’s commitment to the 
protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of historic resources as economic, cultural, 
and aesthetic benefits to the City of San Mateo. 
PRESERVATION PRINCIPLES
The goal of historic preservation is to keep properties and places of historic and cultural value 
in active use, accommodating appropriate improvements to sustain their viability while 
maintaining the key character-defining features which contribute to their significance as cultural 
resources. Preservation also seeks to keep cultural resources intact for the benefit of future 
generations. It is an integral component of other community initiatives in neighborhood 
livability, sustainability, economic development, and cultural appreciation. 
GOALS 
GOAL CD-3.2 Use historic preservation principles as an equal component in the planning and 
development process. Fully integrate the consideration of historic, architectural and cultural 
resources as a major aspect of the City's planning, permitting and development activities. 
GOAL CD-3.1 Identify and preserve historic, architectural and cultural resources, including 
individual properties, districts and sites, to maintain San Mateo’s sense of place and special 
identity, and to enrich our understanding of the city’s history and continuity with the past.  
GOAL CD-3.3 Ensure compatibility between new development and existing historic, 
architectural and cultural resources. 
DEFINITIONS 
Definitions and interpretations used herein shall be consistent with the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA), the State Historical Building Code, the California Register of Historical 
Resources, the National Register of Historic Places, and the Secretary of the Interior’s 
Standards. 
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
1
3
314 of 386

--- page 315 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
POLICIES  
Policy CD-A3.1 Historic Preservation.  Incorporate historic preservation as an integral part 
the general plan, specific plans, environmental processes, planning, permitting, and 
development activities. 
Policy CD-P3.2 Historic Preservation Surveys and Context Statements. Identify and 
preserve historic buildings, districts and sites. Actively identify and protect concentrations of 
buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere of 
exceptional architectural interest or integrity when they meet national, state or local criteria.  
Policy CD-P3.3 Downtown Historic District. Maintain the identified historic district along 
portions of 3rd Avenue and B Street, and continue to implement regulations to protect the 
overall historic and architectural character and integrity of the area.  
Policy CD-P3.4 Scale, Character and Compatibility. Promote an architecturally sensitive 
approach to new construction in, and adjacent to identified and potentially eligible historic 
districts to ensure compatibility of new and old.  Ensure design compatibility that maintains the 
historic character and integrity of the area.   
Policy CD-A3.5 Consider effects on historic resources. The California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA) requires public agencies to consider the effects of actions on historic resources.  
Under CEQA, a historic resource is any resource that is listed in or determined to be eligible for 
listing in the California Register of Historical Resources. Any resource that is eligible for listing 
in the California Register is considered significant for the purposes of CEQA.  The California 
Register of Historical Resources also includes resources listed in or eligible for listing in the 
National Register of Historic Places.  Properties that are designated significant in an adopted 
local survey are also presumed to be eligible for the California Register, and are considered 
significant. 
Policy CD-P3.6 Demolition. The City shall consider demolition of historic resources as a last 
resort, to be permitted only if rehabilitation of the resource is not feasible, demolition is 
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, or the public benefits 
outweigh the loss of the historic resource. 
ACTIONS 
Action CD-A3.1 Historic Context. Structures over 45 years old proposed for substantial 
alteration or demolition shall be evaluated for both individual significance and as contributors 
to an identified or potential historic district. 
Action CD-A3.2 Coordinate and align the general plan, specific plans, zoning code, 
environmental processes, planning, permitting, and development activities to incorporate 
preservation as an integral component in accordance with the principles, goals and policies 
herein. 
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
2
3
315 of 386

--- page 316 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Action CD-A3.3 Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City's 
historic, architectural, cultural and archaeological resources and educate the community about 
how to preserve and improve these resources.  Increase public appreciation through 
neighborhood workshops, public presentations, interpretive signage, and walking tours. 
Action CD-A3.4 Historic Resources Survey. The City shall establish and maintain an 
inventory of architecturally, culturally, and historically significant structures, districts and sites. 
Proactively update and maintain an up-to-date historic resources inventory. For areas that have 
not been surveyed, the City shall seek funding to prepare new historic context surveys to 
identify structures, districts and sights potentially eligible for listing in the National Register of 
Historic Places, the California Register of Historical Resources, or local register. 
Action CD-A3.5 Design Standards. The City shall use the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards 
as the basis for objective design standards for alterations to historic resources and new 
development within and adjacent to commercial and residential historic districts.  Design 
standards shall ensure that proposed new construction projects have a contextual relationship 
with land uses and patterns, spatial organization, visual relationships, cultural and historic 
values, and relationships in height, massing, modulation, and materials 
Action CD-A3.6 Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives to full 
demolition on how to preserve a historic building as part of any planning application and 
implement methods of preservation unless health and safety requirements cannot be met.
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
3
3
316 of 386

--- page 317 ---
From: Bill Williams 
  
Sent: Wednesday, September 14, 2022 12:29 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
The City of San Mateo has been paying fines for untreated storm runoff entering the Bay. The 
proposed storm storage system has not been completed. The new sewage plant has not been 
completed. 
 
According to Baykeeper, recent red tides and fish kills were exacerbated by treated sewage 
discharges. 
 
Are we setting the stage for an ecological disaster by planning for 55,000 new residents? 
 
x Bill Williams, San Mateo 
 
317 of 386

--- page 318 ---
RE: STRIVE SAN MATEO
GENERAL PLAN 2040

The General Plan thus far does not address what | consider critical issues.

The City of San Mateo has been paying fines for untreated storm runoff. The
proposed overflow system is under construction, but not completed. Will it be
adequate if we experience “atmospheric rivers” due to climate change?

The sewage treatment plant is not complete. Who will pay the cost of
transporting wastewater miles to the new plant when the General Plan
approves high rise “towers of toilets” for 55,000 new residents?

Baykeeper stated recent “red tides” and fish kills were exacerbated by current
treated sewage discharge volumes into San Francisco Bay. Are we going to
experience an environmental disaster in our part of the Bay when the new plant
may generate larger volumes from excessive growth?

It will not matter how many bike lanes we have if the city reeks of sewage.

X Bill Williams, San Mateo 9/15/22

&nbsp;
318 of&nbsp;386


--- page 319 ---
From: Catherine Marreiro 
  
Sent: Monday, September 19, 2022 10:11 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; adam.william.nugent@gmail.com 
Subject: Updated Letter to the Planning Commission for Sept 27 planning commission meeting 
 
Please find an updated letter to the one I sent on 9/8, which includes two new households among the 
signers. Please include this version in the agenda packet for the 9/27 planning commission meeting.  
 
Dear members of the planning commission and planning staff,  
 
The Land Use Alternatives maps were a tremendous undertaking and we appreciate staff’s efforts in 
creating them. With hundreds of tiny squares on these maps, there may be some missing elements and 
this is where we would like to take the opportunity to address a potential concern with the designation 
for the block at 545 First Ave., the current site of Hassett Hardware. 
 
This site, at the corner of Delaware Street, is where the commercial uses of downtown transition to the 
residential area of North Central San Mateo. The immediate residential uses are mainly single-story 
houses with a few two-story houses. There is also a three-story condominium building on the block. The 
Hassett site, along with the Andrews Building immediately to the north, is currently zoned commercial, 
with a 50-foot cap. 
 
The Land Use Alternatives map designates the section of this block as both mixed-use medium 4-7 
stories next to residential low 1-3 stories on the same block. On paper, the transition may make sense 
since the highest use for residential is 3 levels and lowest use for mixed-use is 4 levels. In reality, 
however, the current conditions are different. The potential jump up to 7 stories, and possibly up to 9 
with state density bonuses from SB 35, means there is a very real possibility that there could be a 9-
story commercial building immediately next to a single-story residence. While that is a worst-case 
scenario, we worry establishing such zoning could make the possibility real as the new property owner 
for the Hassett site has a history of commercial development. If the adjoining Andrews building is 
purchased by this developer, the potential for this rises. 
 
As part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion, we ask that consideration be provided to 
current uses in residential areas and that zoning reflect the need to transition heights into these areas. 
We also ask that zoning on the same block be compatible. 
 
We enjoy having Hassett here and appreciate its convenience and ability to provide jobs for 
neighborhood youth, and would love for it to stay. We could envision a new development with the 
current store returning on the ground floor and up to 3 levels of housing under the current 50-foot cap. 
We also could see a 3-4 level condominium building with limited parking to address this area’s need for 
“missing middle” housing that transitions from commercial to residential areas. We also understand that 
a 5-level housing development could be built under the current cap. We are absolutely fine with these 
scenarios to varying degrees. As is typically the case with new development with a significant shift in 
land use, we would hope that there would be some accommodations when possible when it comes to 
setbacks, stepbacks and, when possible, retention of daylight planes. 
 
We understand one of the main goals of the General Plan was to provide areas in which new housing 
could be built to address this area’s growing need. We recognize this site’s potential for new housing 
319 of 386

--- page 320 ---
and welcome it as high as 50 feet, if done well and with some accommodations, and would prefer it to 
be slightly lower to transition better to the existing North Central neighborhood, which includes the 
city’s oldest house directly across the street and a number of unique and interesting single-family homes 
in a traditionally low-income area of the city. 
 
However, we would also like to be treated the same as other areas of the city and other blocks, which 
had accommodations for transitions to neighborhoods. Nowhere else in the city is there the potential 
for a current single-story residential use immediately next to a potential 9-story commercial building in 
any of the Land Use Alternatives map. 
 
To summarize, we would like a goal established that any new zoning remain compatible within the same 
block so that heights stay within 2-3 floors of the current average after any density bonuses, that future 
development transition into established neighborhoods, and that the height for any future development 
on the commercial portion of this block be limited to allow for these two requests. 
 
We are submitting this request as part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion but can also 
submit it during the Land Use Alternatives section when the draft General Plan is discussed next year. If 
there is another time for us to submit this request, or any other action we must take, please let us know. 
 
Thanks again for the effort in creating this plan, receiving our concerns, and making the necessary 
modifications. 
 
Catherine and David Marreiro 
31 S. Claremont St. 
 
Woodrow Andrews 
501 First Ave. (Owner of The Andrews Building) 
 
Yan Li 
26 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jessica Huang 
30 S. Delaware St. 
 
Val Lucero 
34 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jon Mays and Dayna Alpine 
38 S. Delaware St. 
 
John Aikin 
45 S. Delaware St. 
 
George and Olga Derby 
105 Delaware St. 
 
Citania Tam 
619 First Ave. 
320 of 386

--- page 321 ---
Gary and Olivia Edwards 
615 First Ave. 
 
Susan and Wayne Purdom 
61 North Claremont St.  
 
Daryl Khoo  
21 S Claremont St Unit 12  
 
Nicole and Mark Engler 
55 North Claremont St 
 
 
 
321 of 386

--- page 322 ---
MEMORANDUM  
DATE 
August 31, 2022 
TO 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
FROM 
Joanna Jansen and Carey Stone, PlaceWorks 
SUBJECT 
Summary of General Plan Subcommittee Input on the Draft Policies and Actions 
This memorandum summarizes the General Plan Subcommitee (GPS) input on the draft policies 
and actions. The GPS met three times on August 11, 18, and 30, 2022 to review and provide 
feedback on the policies and actions. 
GENERAL COMMENTS 
• 
Overall, the GPS felt that the draft goals, polices, and actions are well written and reflect 
community input to date.  
• 
Make sure there is deliberate thought given to which policies begin with “continue to” 
versus which ones do not.  
• 
Climate change should be featured prominently in the General Plan, and the General 
Plan and the City’s Climate Action Plan should align.  
• 
Highlight climate change and sustainability similar to how environmental justice policies 
and actions are highlighted, or consider if we should have an Energy and Climate Change 
element.  
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION ELEMENT 
• 
Aspire to make El Camino Real a space to spend time, not only a space to rush through.  
• 
Replace “pedstrian-oriented” with “people-oriented.”  
• 
Throughout the design-related policies, shift language to be less subjective and more 
objective.  
• 
Include objective standards to preserve historic resources 
• 
Add language that emphasizes the importance of keeping architectural details at the 
human-scale. 
• 
Acknowledge the important architectural features of traditional pre-war architecture 
that should be carried forward in new development downtown.  
• 
Preserving cherished and beautiful historic buildings is important, but historic 
preservation should not be weaponized to prevent homeonwners from upgrading their 
own property or to prevent needed new housing. 
• 
Define “character” to clarify that it refers to visual or architectural rather than social 
characteristics.  
322 of 386

--- page 323 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 2 
• 
The General Plan should address historic preservation at a general level of detail and not 
get into the weeds; the Historic Preservation Ordinance and State and federal 
regulations should provide more detail.  
• 
Goal CD-2 should reference preserving heritage trees “where feasible.” Sometimes old 
trees are dangerous and need to be removed. Goal CD-2 should also reference median 
trees.  
• 
Policies and actions under Goal CD-3 should be broadened to refer to historic “assets,” 
not only buildings, consistent with the wording of the goal. Consider adding policies or 
actions under Goal CD-3 to adopt incentives for property owners to preserve and/or 
restore historic assets.  
• 
In response to Goal CD-4 about City Image, some GPS members expressed that San 
Mateo has lost a sense of a identity that distinguishes it from other Peninsula cities, and 
that the General Plan could be an opportunity to clarify what makes San Mateo unique. 
Some ideas were Downtown, dining, Hillsdale Mall, and the San Mateo Bridge. A unique 
identity should be consistently expressed through signage and other City materials.  
• 
Under Goal CD-5, delete Policy CD-P5.1 regarding building mass and scale. This policy is 
too vague and is not needed; the desired outcomes are addressed more clearly and 
explicitly in other policies under this goal.  
• 
Consider adding area-specific design policies for the San Mateo Park and Baywood-
Aragon neighborhoods.  
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATION ELEMENT 
• 
Address public accessibility of private open spaces, including signage. 
• 
Address the lack of access to recreational facilities for neighborhoods east of El Camino 
Real and especially east of 101.  
• 
Add language about public spaces that are age-integrated and offer spaces for teens.  
• 
Strengthen references to local school districts and mutual collaboration in support of 
recreational access.  
• 
Confirm that the parks figure accurately reflects facilities at Bayside/Joinville (school 
district property), Dale Avenue, and Station Park Green. 
• 
Add an Action under Goal COS-2 to develop a volunteer stewardship program, especially 
as the City opens up access to creeks.  
• 
Goal COS-4 should acknowledge the importance of reducing vehicle miles traveled as a 
way to improve air quality.  
• 
Goal COS-6 could include an action to modernize and make more accessible data that 
the City has on areas with high archaeological sensitivity.  
• 
Policies under Goal COS-9 should mention wi-fi, water fountains, and restrooms public 
amenities offered in park and recreational facilities.  
• 
Consider an action under Goal COS-10 to do more frequent surveys of residents to ask 
about park and recreation amenities.  
• 
Add an Action under Goal COS-11 to identify new funding sources for parks and 
recreation facilities.  
323 of 386

--- page 324 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 3 
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES ELEMENT 
• 
Consider whether we need to add more policies about code enforcement in the General 
Plan. 
• 
Sewer laterals upgrades should be covered in the General Plan to address leakage. The 
policy could help encourage sewer laterals maintenance and replacement. Reference 
the City’s program that helps subsidize these type of upgrades.  
• 
Add “as needed” after new fire stations in Policy PS-P1.3. Fire stations are a very 
expensive investment. 
• 
Add a policy that encourages existing homes to convert to water efficient landscaping 
under Goal PS-2. Offer incentives, rebates, and education in partnership with Cal Water. 
• 
Mention greywater and potable water in Action PS-A2.1. Also, reference the City’s water 
treatment facility where there are ongoing measures to produce greywater and potable 
water. Maybe there is more that can be done to encourage greywater systems in 
residential and commercial buildings.   
• 
Include stronger language about water conservation  in Policy PS-P2.2. 
• 
Add the word “coordinate” to action PS-A3.1. 
• 
Add “and bay” after lagoons at the end of Policy PS-P3.3. Simplify and make this policy 
stronger.  
• 
Mention bicycle and pedestrian projects in Action PS-A3.3.  
• 
Add “consider” at the beginning of Policy PS-P4.3.  
• 
Add language that encourages green space in Policy PS-P4.9. 
• 
Under Goal PS-5, add a policy or action about encouraging the development of licensed 
preschool facilities. This should be a priority. Also work with school districts to 
encourage efforts to provide more before and after school programs. 
• 
Agree with Policy PS-P5.2, but rewrite the policy to make it more clear. Explain what 
“compatible with surrounding land uses” means. 
• 
Emphasize non-residential development in Action PS-A5.2.  
• 
Revise Policy PS-P5.5 to address inadequacies in existing childcare facilities. There are a 
number of existing facilities under Parks and Recreation that cannot be utilized for child 
care because they do not meet the square footage requirement to be a licensed facility. 
We need to go beyond retaining facilities and consider if there are some existing 
facilities that need to be shutdown or expanded. Also, collect park fees and make it a 
priority to expand existing childcare facilities. 
• 
Add a policy under Goal PS-6 about distributing health centers throughout the city to 
make sure they are accessible. Also add a policy about mobile health care, perhaps the 
City can help support the County’s efforts.  
• 
Ensure Policy PS-P6.3 balances the need for social services in each community while also 
ensuring that services are not concentrated in one area.  
• 
Add nonprofits and community based organizations to Policy PS-P6.4. Revise this policy 
to say “support vulnerable populations by prioritizing reduction of vulnerabilities” and 
then list nonprofits and religious groups to help.  
 
 
324 of 386

--- page 325 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 4 
SAFETY ELEMENT 
• 
Support efforts to underground utilities.  
• 
Revise the examples in Policy S-P1.7 to include data-driven defensible design examples.  
• 
Consider vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and bicyclists, in Policy S-P1.8 and 
Action S-A1.10. Do not support expansion of Highway 101 and other roadways. Focus on 
designing roads that help prevent traffic fatalities. There should be a reference 
somewhere in the language that addresses roadway design for vulnerable users.  
• 
Revise Policy S-P5.6 to ensure monitoring of peakload water supply is occurring by the 
appropriate entity.  
• 
Add policies and actions to reduce per capita energy use, such as “encourage energy use 
reduction by incentivizing active transportation and reducing single occupant vehicle 
use”. Another policy could be “encourage the creation of energy efficient homes, 
businesses, and other buildings”. Possible actions could be “encourage energy use 
reduction through the creation of safe and comfortable opportunities for active 
transport modes by implementing the City’s pedestrian and bicycle master plan and 
focusing new development near major transit nodes”. Another action could be 
encouraging the installation of energy efficient home insulation, weather sealing and 
other physical means to reduce heating and cooling needs through greater Title 24 
building efficiency.  
• 
Cover energy saving appliances and electric appliances.  
NOISE ELEMENT 
• 
Revise Policy N-P1.2 to add a reference about outdoor equipment such as leaf blowers 
and two-stroke engines. Maybe the policy can be revised to list the known noise 
irritants. Consider adding a reference about outdoor equipment in Policy N-P2.1.  
• 
Consider whether the roads mentioned in Policy N-P2.4 will actually be widened since 
Caltrans has been deprioritizing widening of roads.  
• 
City could help reduce traffic speeds in Policy N-P2.4 since they are a noise generator. 
• 
Emphasize or add more about railroad noise.  
CIRCULATION ELEMENT 
• 
Support for many of the revisions requested in the letter submitted by Move San 
Mateo.   
• 
Add a threshold for the size of development when we say “require new developments 
to” in the policies and actions. Applying requirements for new development makes 
sense for larger projects.  
• 
Replace walking, bicycling and transit everywhere it appears with “transit and active 
transportation modes”. A few subcommittee members disagree and believe the General 
Plan should include commonly known terms.   
• 
Add an action under Goal C-1 that requires implementation of the pedestrian and 
bicycle infrastructure outlined in the Circulation Map anytime a roadway is resurfaced. 
This is partially covered by Action C-A4.2, but it only mentions bicycle infrastructure and 
could be expanded to include pedestrian infrastructure. 
325 of 386

--- page 326 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 5 
• 
Revise Policy C-P1.3 as follows:  
o Delete “works towards”.  
o Revise policy to say: Use a safe systems approach for transportation planning, 
street design, operations, emergency response, and maintenance that 
proactively identifies opportunities to “improve safety where conflicts between 
users exist in order to eliminate traffic fatalities and serious injuries in our 
roadways”. 
• 
Revise Policy C-P1.5 to address high capacity travel, facilitate efficient travel, and limit 
left turns during high traffic hours. However, there may not be much the City can do 
because El Camino Real is a State road.  
• 
For Action C-A1.5, study not only where people already go, but where they would like to 
go and build routes around their needs.  
• 
Clarify the word “consider” in the second sentence of Action C-A2.1.  
• 
Be more specific about “safe routes to school” in Action C-A2.5.  
• 
A few subcommittee members would like to revise Action C-A2.7 to say “required” 
instead of “encourage”, but some believe the General Plan should stay high level.   
• 
Modify Policy C-P3.2 to require the widest sidewalks that are feasible and comfortable.   
• 
Unsure why Policy C-P3.4 is under the pedestrian goal.  
• 
Action C-A3.1 should be revised to clarify that there is an urgent need for 
implementation of pedestrian improvements.  
• 
Add increasing sight lines and removing conflicts at the cross walks to Action C-A3.5. 
There should be an action about the visibility at cross walks for pedestrians. 
• 
Change “transit centers” to “community destinations” in Policy C-P4.3. 
• 
Add “undercrossings” in Action C-A4.3. 
• 
Add “at intersections” to Action C-14.6.  
• 
There is a transit operator shortage not ridership shortage. Maybe we need to change 
the focus to “increasing the service” instead of “increasing ridership” in Policy C-P5.1.  
• 
Break Policy C-P5.5 into two policies. Also, revise the policy to educate the public about 
all alternative travel modes, not just transit.  
• 
Do not limit Action C-A5.2 to only include disadvantaged communities. There should be 
a focus on disadvantaged communities, but the action should be expanded to other 
areas.  
• 
Explain what vehicles miles traveled per capita is in Goal C-6. Say “efficient and safe” 
operations and also say “residents” instead of “modes”.  
• 
Revise Policy C-P6.4 to include a reference to improving the City’s process to request 
and receive traffic calming measures on residential streets.  
• 
One subcommittee member would like Action C-A7.2 revised to say “implement” 
instead of “evaluate”, but another subcommittee member disagreed.  
• 
Revise Action C-A8.4 to address data privacy. Do not limit the action to new technology 
options, we should require this from public transportation as well.  
326 of 386

--- page 327 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 6 
• 
Prioritize traffic calming measures in Goal C-6 and focus on areas with the highest 
vehicle collisions. Add an action under this goal that calls for annual vehicles, pedestrian 
and bicycle counts at different intersections to measure how the City is doing.  
• 
Add an action that requires new development in Downtown to have shared parking 
agreements that allows the public to use the parking space in the evenings. One 
subcommittee member believes we should remove existing public parking spaces if we 
are adding more public parking opportunities in Downtown. 
• 
Add a new policy or action about education under Transportation Demand 
Management. There are programs out there where people can trade in their car to get 
transit and e-bike credits.  
• 
Add a policy or goal about connecting neighborhoods or reducing barriers to help traffic 
flow, for example there is a wall that separates the Shoreview neighborhood and the 
new parks on J Hart Clinton Drive.  
• 
Place a stronger emphasis on traffic efficiency, infrastructure, traffic calming, and 
parking in the Circulation Element. One subcommittee member believes the focus 
should be on getting people out of their cars, which helps reduce traffic.  
• 
In addition to greenhouse gas emissions, also reference vehicle miles traveled in the 
goals of this element. 
• 
Consider how some of the emerging technology trends could change the city if they 
actually came into fruition.  
• 
Add an action about school safety speed zones.   
• 
Make sure we are prioritizing local projects, not only regional projects.  
• 
Concern about scooter safety.  
LAND USE ELEMENT 
• 
Revise Goal LU-1 as follows: 
o Change “citizens” to “residents.”  
o Include a reference about affordability. Suggested revision could be “provides 
ample housing which is affordable at all levels”. 
o Consider using “balanced” instead of “orderly” growth. 
• 
Revise Policy LU-P1.1 to add the word affordability. Would like to see one or two actions 
that could meaningfully achieve this policy. 
• 
Revise Action LU-A1.1 to be more specific. Would also like to see an action about 
maintaining a real time list of pipeline projects such as the amount of office, jobs and 
housing that is planned. There should be a requirement that we report this information 
on an annual basis.  
• 
Consider using “encourage” instead of “require” in Policy LU-P1.2. 
• 
Unsure why Action LU-A1.2 is titled as surplus land inventory.  
• 
Revise Policy LU-P1.3 to say, “component to provide”.   
• 
Policy LU-P1.6 may be outdated.  
• 
Define what the Sphere of Influence is in Policy LU-P1.7.  
• 
Define the term ”equity priority communities” used in Policy LU-P1.8.  
327 of 386

--- page 328 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 7 
• 
Flush out the community benefits in Policy LU-P2.2. Would recommend building heights 
above 65 feet only for projects that provide housing as a community benefit. An 
increase in height should be tied to housing being a major part of that building and also 
providing a greater amount of below market rate units than what the City’s inclusionary 
ordinance requires. Include high quality materials and context appropriate design as a 
community benefit for taller buildings. One subcommittee member believes we should 
be careful about how much we ask for from developers because there are other ways to 
make a project pencil that may not benefit the community, such as hiring out-of-state 
labor.  
• 
Add the concept of access to commercial services in Policy LU-P2.5.  
• 
Add the word “recreation” to Goal LU-3.  
• 
Add circulation somewhere in Policy LU-P3.2, but unsure were.  
• 
Policy LU-P3.6 seems to be outdated.  
• 
The following comments were received about Policy LU-P3.9: 
o This policy should not dictate the type of businesses. Delete “to research and 
development, bio-tech, and life sciences uses, and/or”. 
o Clarify what “as far as possible from high-volume roadways” means.  
o California Air Resources Board recommends against siting sensitive uses, like 
housing, within 500 feet from high-volume roadways which is defined as 
100,000 vehicles or more a day. El Camino Real does not meet that criteria, but 
Highway 101 and State Route 92 East of El Camino does meet the criteria. There 
seems to be contradiction in the General Plan, we say we have a policy to locate 
new residential away from high volume roadways, but Study Area 7 and another 
study area along State Route 92 are designated as high and medium density 
residential.   
• 
Revise Policy LU-P3.12 to encourage the design of publicly accessible spaces that people 
can intuitively know the space is for their use.  
• 
Comments received on Policy LU-P3.14:  
o This policy is the same policy as PS-P5.2.  
o Policy is outdated and confusing, it needs wordsmithing.  
o Delete the rest of the policy after the first sentence. 
o The school district and the City have a 55 year lease on Bayside Park. Maybe we 
can have a separate policy that references Bayside Park because that lease will 
come up at the end of this General Plan.  
• 
Replace “support” with “prioritize” in Action LU-A4.1.  
• 
Action LU-A5.1 is missing what the alternative transportation is alternative to. Change 
“alternative transportation” to “active transportation”. 
• 
Encourage buffers between people and cars in Policy LU-P5.2. Mention the City’s tree 
planting plan here. There needs to be a discussion about downtown landscaping in this 
policy.  
• 
Add an action about the pedestrian mall. 
• 
Revise Policy LU-P6.1 to say world class transit-oriented “mixed use” development.  
• 
Concerned about including the term “gentrification” in Policy LU-P8.2.  
328 of 386

--- page 329 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 8 
• 
Add green space where it says “includes retail, services and housing” in Policy LU-P7.1.  
• 
Add biking and walking facilities to Action LU-A7.2, similar to Bridgepointe.  
• 
Add a separate policy or action for the King Center instead of including it in Policy LU-
P8.3. There is a need to enhance the King Center beyond maintaining it. Also, confirm if 
the park impact fees are only supposed to be for physical park improvements and 
address this in the action. 
• 
Identify other funding sources in Action LU-A8.3.  
• 
Unsure if we should keep convenience markets in Policy LU-P8.5 since they do not 
typically provide healthy foods.  
• 
Suggested revisions to Action LU-A8.5: 
o Maybe we can say “balance safety improvements with optimizing the existing 
parking supply” or “balance the design of the safety improvements.”   
o There was a North Central community based transportation plan that was well 
received. Reference the plan or maybe we need to complete a new plan, it 
received a lot of public support at that time.  
o Possible new language “the plan shall seek to make the North Central 
neighborhood streets a measurably safer place while improving accessibility for 
residents and visitors. Parking availability and access shall be featured as a 
factor in assessing the planning and design of projects. Changes shall be 
developed and enacted with the expressed purposes of improving health, 
safety, welfare and comfort for members of the community”. 
• 
Add “sanitation” to Action LU-A8.6.  
• 
Comments received on Policy LU-P8.7:  
o Not sure this is within the City’s purview; the County health department has 
been closely working on healthy food in school efforts.  
o This policy seems outdated.  
o There was a question about whether the school district has a meal program for 
the summer or if the City can help fill the gap. Historically, the school district 
does not provide food for the community in the summer only for summer 
school.  
o One subcommittee member asked if we could add language about “explore or 
incentivize plant based foods in schools”, but a few subcommittee members 
disagreed.  
o Maybe this policy should go beyond schools. Having fresh produce in 
neighborhoods is the key thing people need access to. 
• 
Modify Action LU-A8.7 to go beyond partnering with neighborhood organizations and 
instead also encourage neighborhood cleanliness and beautification programs that do 
not rely solely on volunteers and neighborhood organizations.   
• 
Highlight how members of the public can influence development projects through 
community engagement under Goal LU-9. 
• 
Add child care in Policy LU-P9.1 as a feature of public meetings that will increase 
attendance.  
• 
Add a policy or action about recycled water under Goal LU-10. Remove the word 
“boldly” from this goal.  
329 of 386

--- page 330 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 9 
• 
Change “reduce” to “eliminate” in Policy LU-P10.2 since this is a long term plan.  
• 
Change five years to three years in Action LU-A10.3 since the reach codes and building 
codes come out every three years.  
• 
Improve the definition of  “provide a living wage” in Action LU-A11.1. Maybe we should 
say “a wage that is indexed to the cost of living”.  
• 
Mention “support remote work options” and “public wifi” in Policy LU-P11.3 about 
telecommunications.  
• 
Clarify what projects Action LU-A12.1 would apply to. This action is also not clear. 
• 
There is no action for the Shoreview shopping center, only for the Bridgepoint and Bel 
Mateo shopping centers. Add an action for the Shoreview shopping center.  
• 
Add an action about jobs housing balance. Mountain View’s East Whisman Precise Plan 
has a requirement of 3 units of housing to be built for every 1,000 feet of commercial. 
Redwood City’s General plan also specifies a maximum additional residential capacity of 
2,500 units, a maximum additional office capacity of 574,667 and a maximum additional 
retail capacity of 100,000 sq. ft. within their Downtown area. Would like to see a similar 
action in the General Plan.  
• 
There is an area in the Land Use Map that is designated mixed use low right next to 
State Route 92, across from The Fish Market, City Council asked for this parcel to be 
designated as mixed use medium but it was recorded in the notes as mixed use low. 
Note to staff to go back and watch the recording to double check.  
• 
Add an action to increase the urban tree canopy while maintaining existing trees as 
much as possible. Identify neighborhoods with less street tree canopy and adopt 
programs to add climate adapted trees to the right of ways and front yards of adjacent 
properties.  
• 
Add an action under the Hillsdale Station Area about working with Caltrain to make the 
station accessible for biking. 
• 
Ensure there are roughly equal heights along contiguous blocks. There are some blocks 
where it goes from residential to mixed use. Important where it changes to residential 
and mixed use to have a consistent height between these types of land uses.  
• 
Add mention about having less paved surfaces that reflect heat in our city under climate 
change and sustainability.  
• 
Add a policy or action about green infrastructure in multi-unit developments under 
climate change and sustainability.  
• 
Consider how Assembly Bill (AB) 297 would eliminate parking requirements for projects 
within a certain distance of transit.  
• 
Think about how the City is moving towards reallocating the public space for a wider 
variety of uses that could be used by small businesses. 
• 
Mixed use should not only include office and residential, but it can also include 
commercial service type of uses.  
• 
High speed rail is a huge land use issue that should be addressed further. Add a 
reference to preserving access to Downtown and neighborhoods. 
 
330 of 386

--- page 331 ---
MEMORANDUM  
DATE 
September 16, 2022 
TO 
San Mateo City Council 
FROM 
Joanna Jansen and Angelica Garcia, PlaceWorks 
SUBJECT 
Summary of Planning Commission Input on the Draft Policies and Actions 
 
This memorandum summarizes the Planning Commission (PC) input on the draft policies and actions 
from their meeting on September 13, 2022. The PC reviewed and provided feedback on the policies and 
actions for the Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, Noise, and Conservation, Open Space, and 
Recreation elements. Following the September 13 Planning Commission meeting, Commissioner Wiggins 
submitted additional comments via email, which are attached to this memorandum for reference. 
GENERAL COMMENTS 
• 
General support for the comments made by the General Plan Subcomittee, except some 
comments were clarified or refined by the PC.  
• 
The term “accessible” was used quite a bit, especially in the Circulation and Conservation, Open 
Space and Recreation Elements. Define this term since many people will think it is connected 
with accessibility for those who have impaired mobility. There should also be more policies and 
actions about this issue.  
CIRCULATION ELEMENT 
• 
Revise Goal C-1 to say “design and implement a multimodal transportation system that 
prioritizes walking, biking, and transit and…”. 
• 
Agree with Sierra Club’s recommendation to add trees and green infrastructure to Policy C-P1.2.  
• 
Revise policy C-P1.5 to say “prioritize high-capacity travel and pedestrian and bicyclist safety 
along El Camino Real”.  
• 
Change “consider parking requirement reductions for projects that” to “reduce parking 
requirements for projects”. There should be room for City Staff to allow exceptions to this policy 
for unusual projects.   
• 
Add “or other areas” to the list of destinations mentioned in Action C-A2.6.   
• 
There was discussion about whether unbundled parking should be required under Action C-
A2.7. The PC ultimately recommended to change the wording in the policy to start with “allow 
and encourage…”. There was also support for adding a new action to study the feasibility of 
requiring unbundled parking.  
• 
Instead of industry standards, say “use American Disabilities Act requirements when 
implementing design standards” in Action C-A3.4.  
331 of 386

--- page 332 ---
September 16, 2022 | Page 2 
• 
Add the words “and improvements” after “engagement” in Action C-A3.6 to support efforts to 
fund safe routes to school improvements. Also, this action is in the pedestrian section, but safe 
routes to schools are not just for pedestrians, it also includes bicyclists.  
• 
Recommend adding a new policy that is titled “Safe Routes to School Master Plan.” This policy 
should encourage the creation of safe routes maps based on school boundaries. Map out the 
routes that are safe routes to the school, identify deficienciesand the capital improvement 
projects to fix those deficiences, and fund the improvements. The new policy could be “Create a 
safe routes to school master plan” that includes is the details mentioned above.    
• 
Add an action that requires pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure on the Preferred Circulation 
Scenarioto be implemented anytime a roadway is resurfaced. Revise Action C-A4.2 to mention 
pedestrian infrastructure.  
• 
The following comments were made about Action C-A4.3:  
o Strengthen the language; commit ourselves to go a bit further. Add text to this action 
that lays out a schedule to reallocate dollars where feasible from vehicle to bikeway 
improvements consistent with Goal C-6.  
o Concern the overcrossings at US 101 and SR 92 mentioned will not be constructed any 
time soon. Do not include goals, policies and actions that are infeasible. 
• 
Change “continue pursuing” to “maintain” in Action C-A4.4.  
• 
Support for Action C-A4.5.  
• 
Revise Goal C-6 to include “prioritizes user safety” after “achieve a transportation system that”.  
• 
Revise Policy C-P6.6 to make it clearer that the desired outcome should be to prioritize projects 
that are primarily bike/ped rather than vehicular.  
• 
Comments about Goal C-7 include:  
o Add a sentence to or create a new policy that says “to plan for the reduction of public 
parking supply as a whole” which relates to the goal to reduce vehicular travel. 
o Look into a program where parking fees in certain areas are used for improvements for 
that neighborhood. 
• 
Add a policy that commits us to the long term plan to reduce public parking supply. There 
should text in this policy about “heavily scrutinizing any proposed increase in public parking 
supply”.  
• 
Revise Policy C-P7.1 to focus on addressing street parking management more narrowly and 
eliminate references to land use changes that would be intended to indirectly result in parking 
changes.”   
• 
There was discussion about whether the word “require” should be added to Policy C-P7.2 and 
the PC ultimately decided against requiring shared parking.  
• 
Concern about data sharing language in Action C-A8.4. How will the data be used? Technology 
companies also have strict rules about data privacy.   
• 
The following items were discussed in connection with Move San Mateo’s letter:  
o Agree with the policies and actions in Move San Mateo’s letter, except there should be 
more thought about the suggestion to add a new action related to capping Highway 101 
from Peninsula Avenue to the Highway 92 interchange.   
o There was discussion about the suggested action to switch parking and bike lanes but 
the PC agreed the Complete Streets plan would be the best place to address this action.   
332 of 386

--- page 333 ---
September 16, 2022 | Page 3 
o There was discussion about the recommendations on speed governors and the PC 
agrees there should be language in the General Plan that supports a pilot program 
about speed governors.  
o There was a recommendation to incorporate the following policies and actions:  
 
Review projects in the City's capital improvement plan based on their alignment 
with the State Climate Action Plan for transportation infrastructure and other 
climate goals. Modify our capital improvement projects based on the State 
Climate Action Plan for transportation infrastructure. 
 
Establish a realistic, ambitious, time-based goal to complete all infrastructure 
projects outlined in the City’s revised capital improvement program and 
improvements outlined in other plans. Identify increases in staffing levels 
needed to meet this goal. 
 
Require the evaluation of the safety and quality of sidewalks fronting all 
properties at the point of sale. Require the existing or new owner to repair the 
sidewalk if minimum safety/quality conditions are not met. Provide exemptions 
for low income owners from this requirement. Prioritize sidewalk repair 
program funding for historically marginalized/equity priority communities 
and/or for low income individuals. 
 
Adopt minimum traffic calming standards for all streets including but not limited 
to modal filters and speed cushions.  
 
More aggressively pursue a shared micromobility operator, and work with the 
County and region to attract a multi-jurisdictional operator already operating in 
major cities in the region. 
• 
There are some policies and actions in the Circulation Element that are unclear. For example, 
the language in Action C-A7.4 should be clarified. Review and revise the draft goals, policies and 
actions in the Circulation Element to simplify and improve clarity.  
• 
Prioritize the policies and actions connected with safe routes to school. 
• 
Add a reference about superblocks somewhere in the General Plan, maybe it makes the most 
sense in the Circulation Element but the PC would not like this concept to get lost.  
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATION ELEMENT 
• 
Agree with GPS comments on this element.  
• 
Change the word “manage” to “maintain” or “protect” in Policy COS-P1.6.  
• 
Remove the hatch on Borel Park in Figure COS-3 because the park is already developed. Add the 
hatch on the undeveloped open space area on Dale Avenue.  
• 
Add a policy or action about reducing light pollution; however, do not conflict with public 
requests for better lighting and pedestrian safety. Think about the neighborhood context and 
their priorities on reducing light pollution versus having better lighting for safety reasons.  
• 
Support Goal COS-5, it is important to keep this goal.  
• 
Add or revise policy COS-P3.2 to “protect and restore creeks to a level acceptable for healthy 
marine and bird habitat.” 
• 
Add a new policy under Goal COS-4 that discourages new housing development within 500 feet 
of high volume roadways averaging more than 100,000 daily trips. Maybe one of the ways we 
333 of 386

--- page 334 ---
September 16, 2022 | Page 4 
could allow housing development near high volume roadways is if an applicant completes a 
computational modeling to show there will not be impacts. This policy should an environmental 
justice policy.  
• 
Revise Goal COS-6 to include “encourage projects to recognize historical tribal lands.” 
• 
Add a policy under Goal COS-8 to include an equitable access analysis in park master plans to 
identify deficiencies and solutions and funding to fix these deficiencies. 
• 
Add the following policies or actions below Goal COS-10:  
o Eliminate gas powered equipment and eliminate toxic fertilizers and chemicals from 
being used in the parks over time. Sustainable park design should consider what kind of 
equipment is necessary.  
o Implement a 10-year plan to repurpose the golf course into a higher and better use as 
identified by outreach and surveys. Do not specify the use in the policy or action, 
instead leave it open for discussion.  
• 
Add “habitat” to the list of uses in Policy COS-P10.2. 
• 
Revise Action COS-A10.5 to prioritize beautification efforts in equity priority communities over 
wealthier neighborhoods.  
• 
Add “creating a park system that is best in class or sets a standard for the Bay Area” in Goal COS-
11.  
• 
There was a discussion about whether leaf blowers should be banned due to air quality, noise, 
and health concerns. The PC suggested adding a policy or action that bans gas-powered leaf 
blowers within the public right-of-way.  
• 
Add a new policy to “ensure a balanced set of funding sources that is comprised of annual 
budget dollars and new development impact fees each in proportion to its impact on parks and 
recreational facilities to provide a stable funding source.”  
• 
Add a new action to “evaluate the City’s annual budget to identify funding sources for impacts 
on parks and recreation facilities caused by existing development, as needed. Identify other 
funding sources including but not limited to a bond.”  
• 
Add a policy or goal that supports efforts to create passive recreation that connects parks and 
certain nodes, such as Downtown, to increase connectivity on select public right-of-ways for 
runners and pedestrians.  
• 
Composting is a State requirement for homes and businesses. Address composting in City parks 
in the General Plan. There should be compost receptables in City parks. We should also use a 
special smaller electric garbage trucks to service parks.  
• 
Encourage volunteering programs at parks.  
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES ELEMENT 
• 
Correct the name of the element, in some places it is labelled as facilities or infrastructure.  
• 
Support continuing to try to find a downtown facility as mentioned in Policy PS-P4.3.  
• 
Delete the first sentence of Policy PS-P5.2. Change the word “city” to “community” in the fourth 
sentence. Make it clear in the policy that this would apply to any school district land that 
becomes available. Leave in “community recreation needs” in the policy. Housing and 
334 of 386

--- page 335 ---
September 16, 2022 | Page 5 
community recreation uses should be the first priority for these sites. 
•
Change “continue to allow” to “encourage” in Policy PS-P5.6.
•
Clarify a comment made in the GPS meeting about Goal PS-2. Add a new policy to “encourage
existing homes all properties to convert to water-efficient landscaping over time”.
•
Expand policy PS-P5.5 to not only mention child care centers, but also include public facilities in
general as places that support child development. Change “retain” to “improve” in this policy.
•
Add a policy or action to study and implement water regulations related to water conservation.
Set a maximum gallons per day quota of 40 gallons and implement this policy through Cal Water
and the City Council. City has taken position that it does not control its water supply for
decades, but we have the tools to have major impacts on water supply.
•
The wastewater treatment plant mentioned in Policy PS-P3.4 is the most important
infrastructure in the city. The General Plan should consider impacts to the plant from sea level
rise. Figure out how to at least use some recycled water for irrigation, groundwater recharge.
•
Add “public restroom facilities” to Policy PS-P4.1 or create a separate policy about increasing
public restroom facilities.
•
Combine Policy PS-P4.4 and Policy PS-P4.5 or make these policies more distinct since they both
cover libraries.
•
Policy PS-P5.1 is too broad. Include the same level of specificity as the policy about effective
police and fire services.
•
One commissioner would like to study barriers to creating new child care centers and try to
address those barriers but City Staff noted that these facilities are licensed through the State
and County and the City’s only role is related to the physical location of the facility.
•
Revise the first sentence in action PS-A2.1 to make this action stronger.
•
Action PS-A3.3 seems unnecessary.
NOISE ELEMENT 
•
Add an action to “do monitoring to gather more quantitative data on existing noise nuisances”
below Goal N-2. For example, ambient noise levels around schools, along the railroad corridor,
along Highways 92 and 101, and other noise sources of interest. Then use the data to put
policies in place to target nuisance noise sources.
•
Add language about banning leaf blowers.
•
Add a policy that “County Hospital should maintain equipment to minimize noise for adjacent
residential areas”.
•
Revise policy N-P2.7 to include “require” instead of “continue to”.
335 of 386

--- page 336 ---
From: Martin Wiggins 
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 6:17 PM
To: Zachary Dahl 
Cc: Manira Sandhir 
Subject: GPU agenda item - minor comments
Hi Zach,
In addition to comments I will make tonight, I wanted to send along some smaller comments on 
tonight’s GPU agenda item that might be more easily conveyed in writing.
COS-1
Can we add 'where an opportunity arises, restore' natural resources including wetlands'?  I am 
just thinking of, sometime in the next twenty years, some piece of land comes available to the 
City that was historically a wetland, wouldn't it be synergistic with our Safety element on sea 
level rise which we'll discuss in two weeks, to at least say in here that, when we can, we will 
try to restore wetlands, both as an environmental stewardship opportunity and as a safety one? 
The only policies we have are about limitations on new development and I think this implies 
that what's already here is fine.  But there is a legacy of environmental destruction throughout 
most of the 20th century that we are sitting on top of.  So I think at least some mention of 
restoration seems appropriate.
COS-P7.1 - Active & Healthy Lifestyles
Suggest addition of walking and bicycling as a mode of healthy transportation.  Before 
someone says this doesn't belong in COS, note that the current language includes healthy 
eating and nutrition, and that's obviously not limited to parks.  Within the context of parks 
programming I could imagine a number of ways this could be incorporated and wouldn't be 
surprised if it was already happening, but no harm in including it here.
COS-P10.2 - Park Preservation
Can we add the word 'habitat' between open space and recreational use?  I'd like to emphasize, 
if we can, the importance of fostering habitat space as a resilience strategy among other 
reasons.  I think 'open space and recreational use' by itself, feels a little outdated to me.
COS-P10.4 - Optimum Cost-Effectiveness
Can we put the word 'Proactively' right in front of all of this?  I think anyone's that worked in 
maintenance knows how much more expensive things get to fix if you let them deteriorate too 
much, and so optimizing cost-effectiveness should usually come with a lens of proactivity that 
I'd suggest we be explicit about.
PS-P5.3 - Child Care Needs
336 of 386

--- page 337 ---
Add text that clearly states we are meeting the needs 'of children of all abilities, incomes, and
backgrounds' through 2040 (not just 'the needs').
PS-A2.1 - Recycled Water
We say 'explore the feasibility' of working with Cal Water, but I'd suggest we say 'Work with
Cal Water…to explore the feasibility of distributing recycled water'.  This may sound like a
grammatical tweak but I think it’s a material change as it requires u to at least work with them.
Thanks,
Martin
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please
notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
337 of 386

--- page 338 ---
Page C-1
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
3.
CIRCULATION ELEMENT
These suggested revisions to the draft goals, policies and actions are based on input provided by 
staff, community members, the General Plan Subcommittee and the Planning Commission, and 
are shown in italics and track changes. For policies and actions with suggested revisions, they are 
listed below the original draft language that was published in July for comparison purposes. 
GOALS AND POLICIES
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
GOAL C-1
Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that 
prioritizes walking, biking and transit, and is sustainable, safe, and 
accessible for all users, connects the community utilizing all modes of 
transportation and reduces vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita.  
POLICIES
Policy C-P1.1
Sustainable Transportation. Reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from 
transportation by increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as 
walking, bicycling, and public transit. 
Policy C-P1.2
Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are 
streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users 
regardless of age or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, 
or driving. 
Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are 
streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users 
regardless of age or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, 
or driving, and should include landscaping and shade trees as well as green 
streets stormwater infrastructure to reduce runoff and pollution.
Policy C-P1.3
Vision Zero. Work towards eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Use 
a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, 
emergency response, and maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities 
to improve safety where conflicts between users exist. 
Vision Zero. Work towards eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Use 
a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, 
emergency response, and maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities 
338 of 386

--- page 339 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-2
to improve safety where conflicts between users exist to eliminate traffic 
fatalities and serious injuries in our roadways. 
Policy C-P1.4
Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize pedestrian and 
bicycle mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and 
intersection improvements.   
Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize local pedestrian and 
bicycle projects that enhance mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing 
roadway and intersection improvements.   
Policy C-P1.5
El Camino Real. Prioritize high-capacity travel along El Camino Real. 
El Camino Real. Prioritize high-capacityFacilitate efficient travel and pedestrian 
safety along El Camino Real. 
Policy C-P1.6
Transit-Oriented Development.  Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the City’s Caltrain stations and transit corridors.  
Policy C-P1.7
Equitable Multimodal Network. Prioritize new amenities, programs, and 
multimodal projects, developed based on community input and data analysis, in 
San Mateo’s disadvantaged neighborhoods. (Environmental Justice)
Policy C-P1.8
New Development Fair Share. Require new developments to pay a 
transportation impact fee to mitigate cumulative transportation impacts. 
Policy C-P1.9
Dedication of Right-of-Way for Transportation Improvements. Require 
dedication of needed right-of-way for transportation improvements identified in 
adopted City plans, including pedestrian facilities, bikeways, and trails. 
Policy C-P1.10
Inclusive Outreach.  Involve the community in the City’s efforts to design and 
implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and 
accessible for all users. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage 
broad representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically 
underserved communities. 
ACTIONS
Action C-A1.1
Complete Streets Plan. Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the City’s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street 
users of all ages and abilities.  
Action C-A1.2
Vision Zero Plan. Complete and regularly update a Plan that uses a safe systems 
approach to work towards Vision Zero and identifies specific citywide changes 
to policies, practices, funding, and other action items that will reduce speeding, 
collisions, and collision severity. 
339 of 386

--- page 340 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-3
Action C-A1.3
El Camino Real Plan. Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners to 
prepare and implement a plan to accommodate higher capacity and frequency 
travel along El Camino Real, exploring Bus Rapid Transit and other modes of 
alternative transportation. 
Action C-A1.4
Safe Routes for Seniors. Develop a "safe routes for seniors" program to 
promote active transportation connections for seniors in collaboration with 
seniors' organizations. Prioritize improvements for seniors in disadvantaged 
communities. 
Action C-A1.5
Data Driven Approach to Project Design and Prioritization.  Inform the 
prioritization of improvement projects through the consistent collection and 
analysis of modal activity data which reveals where the highest concentration of 
pedestrian, bicycle, and transit trips occur.
Data Driven Approach to Project Design and Prioritization.  Inform the 
prioritization of improvement projects through the consistent collection and 
analysis of modal activity data which reveals where the highest concentration of 
pedestrian, bicycle, and transit trips occur, and study routes and places people 
would like to access but are currently unable to because of limitations in 
pedestrian, bicycle, and transit infrastructure.  
Action C-A1.6
Safety Education. Pursue safety education to increase awareness for all street 
users. 
Action C-A1.7
Transportation Funding. Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in these 
plans. 
Action C-A1.8
Transportation Fees. Adopt and maintain fees and fiscal policies to fund 
circulation improvements and programs equitably and achieve operational 
goals. 
Action C-A1.9
Performance and Monitoring.  Monitor the City's mode split progress on 
reducing VMT, and reducing GHG emissions from VMT, as data is available. 
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT
GOAL C-2
Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number 
and length of single-occupancy vehicle trips and encourage sustainable 
travel behaviors through policy, zoning strategies, and targeted context-
appropriate programs and incentives. 
340 of 386

--- page 341 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-4
POLICIES
Policy C-P2.1
TDM Requirements. Require new or existing developments that meet specific 
size, capacity, and/or context conditions to implement TDM strategies. 
ACTIONS
Action C-A2.1
Implement TDM Ordinance. Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance 
for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. 
Consider parking requirement reductions for projects that include TDM 
measures. 
Implement TDM Ordinance. Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance 
for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. 
Consider Reduce parking requirements reductions for projects that include TDM 
measures. 
Action C-A2.2
TDM Education and Outreach. Pursue education for developers and employees 
about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the 
resulting benefits. 
TDM Education and Outreach. Pursue education for developers and employees 
about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the 
resulting benefits. Inform the public about existing programs that encourage 
people to trade in their vehicle for alternative modes of transportation, such as 
the Clean Cars for All program.  
Action C-A2.3
Leverage TDM Partnership Opportunities. Work with regional partners to 
identify and fund TDM strategies that can be implemented at new and existing 
developments. 
Action C-A2.4
Facilitate TDM Services. Facilitate the provision of TDM services to employees 
and residents through development agreements, TMAs, and coordination with 
regional partners. 
Action C-A2.5
Travel to Schools. Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number 
of students walking or bicycling to school through expanded implementation of 
Safe Routes to School. Prioritize school travel safety improvements in 
disadvantaged communities.
Travel to Schools. Reduce private automobile school trips related VMT and 
support student health by collaborating with private and public partners to 
increase the number of students walking or bicycling to school through 
expanded implementation of Safe Routes to School, including educating students 
341 of 386

--- page 342 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-5
and the community about the benefits of walking and bicycling and making 
physical improvements to streets and neighborhoods that make walking and 
bicycling safer. Prioritize school travel safety improvements in disadvantaged 
communities.
Action C-A2.6
New Development Shuttle Services. As an option to fulfill TDM requirements, 
encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from activity 
centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and 
schedules of all riders, including service workers. 
New Development Shuttle Services. As an option to fulfill TDM requirements, 
encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from activity 
centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center, or other areas. Shuttle service should accommodate 
the needs and schedules of all riders, including service workers. 
Action C-A2.7
Unbundled Parking. Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs 
of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity 
created by unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces. 
PEDESTRIANS
GOAL C-3
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network 
that provides access to community destinations such as employment 
centers, transit, schools, shopping, and recreation. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P3.1
Pedestrian Network. Create and maintain a safe, walkable environment in San 
Mateo to increase the number of people who choose to walk. Maintain an 
updated recommended pedestrian network for implementation. 
Pedestrian Network. Create and maintain a safe, walkable environment in San 
Mateo to increase the number of people who choose to walk. Maintain an 
updated recommended pedestrian network for implementation. Encourage 
“superblock” design in certain nodes of the city, such as Downtown, that allows 
vehicle access at the periphery and limits cut-through vehicles to create 
pedestrian focused, car-light spaces. 
Policy C-P3.2
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development.  Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace 
damaged sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in 
adopted City master plans. Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-
oriented design to facilitate pedestrian path of travel. 
342 of 386

--- page 343 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-6
Policy C-P3.3
Right-of-Way Improvements. Require new developments to construct or 
contribute to improvements that enhance the pedestrian experience including 
human-scale lighting, streetscaping, and accessible sidewalks. 
Right-of-Way Improvements. Require new developments to construct or 
contribute to improvements that enhance the pedestrian experience including 
human-scale lighting, streetscaping, and accessible sidewalks adjacent to the 
site. 
Policy C-P3.4
Utility Undergrounding.  Require new private development to underground 
utilities adjacent to the site. 
Utility Undergrounding.  Require new private development to underground 
utilities adjacent to the site. <Addressed in the Safety Element>
ACTIONS
Action C-A3.1
Implement Pedestrian Improvements. Implement goals, programs, and projects 
in the City’s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of 
the pedestrian network. 
Implement Pedestrian Improvements. Implement Prioritize implementation of 
goals, programs, and projects in the City’s adopted plans that improve the 
comfort, safety, and connectivity of the pedestrian network. 
Action C-A3.2
Utility Undergrounding Requirements. Amend the San Mateo Municipal Code 
to require new private development to underground utilities on and adjacent to 
the site and to install and maintain signs, streetlights, and street landscaping 
adjacent to sidewalks. 
Action C-A3.3
Pedestrian Trails and Routes Awareness. Increase awareness of existing trails 
and routes by working with outside agencies and developers to promote these 
amenities to residents. Continue collaborating with the County on development 
of the trail network. 
Action C-A3.4
Access for Users of All Ages and Abilities. Implement the ADA Transition Plan 
and maintain accessible streets and sidewalks. Use industry standards for 
guidance when implementing design standards. 
Access for Users of All Ages and Abilities. Implement the ADA Transition Plan 
and maintain accessible streets and sidewalks. Use ADA requirementsindustry 
standards for guidance when implementing design standards. 
Action C-A3.5
Pedestrian Connectivity. Incorporate design for pedestrian connectivity across 
intersections in transportation projects to provide safe interaction with other 
modes. 
343 of 386

--- page 344 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-7
Pedestrian Connectivity. Incorporate design for pedestrian connectivity across 
intersections in transportation projects to improve visibility at cross walks for 
pedestrians and provide safe interaction with other modes. Design 
improvements should focus on increasing sight lines and removing conflicts at 
the cross walks. 
Action C-A3.6
Safe Routes to School. Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide 
support to increase number of students walking to school.  
Safe Routes to School. Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement and improvements with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high 
schools, and provide support to increase number of students walking and 
bicycling to school. Consider implementing safety speed zones near schools.  
Action C-A3.7
Downtown Pedestrian Mall. Complete design and fund improvements to fully 
transition B Street between 1st Street and 3rd Street into a pedestrian mall. 
BICYCLES AND MICROMOBILITY
GOAL C-4
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and 
micromobility network that provides access to community destinations 
such as employment centers, transit, schools, shopping, and recreation. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P4.1
Bicycle Network. Create and maintain a bike-friendly environment in San Mateo 
and increase the number of people who choose to bike. 
Policy C-P4.2
Bicycle Master Plan. Maintain an updated recommended bicycle network for 
implementation in the adopted Bicycle Master Plan and related City plans. 
Policy C-P4.3
First- and Last-Mile Connections. Encourage and facilitate provision of bicycle 
parking and shared mobility options at transit centers to provide first- and last-
mile connections. 
First- and Last-Mile Connections. Encourage and facilitate provision of bicycle 
parking and shared mobility options at transit centers and other community 
destinations to provide first- and last-mile connections. 
Policy C-P4.4
Bicycle Related Technology.  Explore ways to use technology to improve bicycle 
safety and connectivity. 
Bicycle and Shared Mobility Related Technology.  Explore ways to use 
technology to improve bicycle and shared mobility safety and connectivity. 
344 of 386

--- page 345 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-8
Policy C-P4.5
Bicycle Improvements. Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience, including bike lanes. 
Policy C-P4.6
Coordination with other City Projects. Maximize opportunities to implement 
bicycle facilities through other City of San Mateo projects. 
Policy C-P4.7
Interjurisdiction Coordination.  Continue to coordinate with adjacent 
jurisdictions and regional partners in the development of connected bicycle and 
pedestrian facilities and regional trails as identified in adopted City plans. 
ACTIONS
Action C-A4.1
Bicycle Master Plan Implementation. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s 
recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, 
safe, and logical bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. 
Update the Bicycle Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future 
bicycle and micromobility facility needs to support the City’s circulation 
network. Provide an adequate supply of short- and long-term bicycle parking to 
support increased ridership.  
Action C-A4.2
Paving Coordination. Coordinate and fund the implementation of bicycle 
facilities identified in the Bicycle Master Plan with the City's paving program.
Paving Coordination. Coordinate and fund the implementation of bicycle 
facilities and pedestrian improvements identified in the Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Master Plans with the City's paving program.  
Action C-A4.3
Connectivity Across Freeway Barriers. Conduct feasibility studies and design 
alternatives for overcrossings at US 101 and SR 92 to facilitate connectivity 
across major barriers. 
Connectivity Across Freeway Barriers. Conduct feasibility studies and design 
alternatives for overcrossings and undercrossings at US 101 and SR 92 to 
facilitate connectivity across major barriers. 
Action C-A4.4
Bay Trail. Identify State and County programs to continue pursuing safe 
pedestrian and bicycle access to and extension of the San Francisco Bay Trail 
through coordination with neighboring jurisdictions. 
Bay Trail. Identify State and County programs to continue pursuingmaintain safe 
pedestrian and bicycle access to and extension of the San Francisco Bay Trail 
through coordination with neighboring jurisdictions. 
Action C-A4.5
Crystal Springs. Pursue safe pedestrian and bicycle access to San Francisco 
Water District lands via Crystal Springs Road through coordination with the 
Town of Hillsborough and with State and County assistance. 
345 of 386

--- page 346 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-9
Action C-A4.6
Bicycle Detection Devices. Install innovative signal modifications on existing and 
planned bikeways to detect bicyclists and micromobility users’ presence at 
intersections and facilitate their safe movement through the intersection. 
Action C-A4.7
Increased Bicycle Capacity on Caltrain and SamTrans. Coordinate with Caltrain 
and SamTrans to support\increase bicycle capacity on transit vehicles and to 
provide an adequate supply of secure covered bicycle and micromobility parking 
at Caltrain stations, transit centers, and major bus stops. 
TRANSIT AND MOBILITY SERVICES
GOAL C-5
Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by 
supporting frequent, reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P5.1
Increase Transit Ridership. Work with SamTrans and Caltrain to increase transit 
ridership.  
Policy C-P5.2
Caltrain. Support Caltrain as a critical transit service in the City and Peninsula. 
Policy C-P5.3
California High Speed Rail. Support and facilitate local and regional efforts to 
implement High Speed Rail. Work to provide multimodal connections between 
San Mateo and planned High Speed Rail stations. 
Policy C-P5.4
Safety at At-Grade Rail Crossings. Eliminate existing at-grade rail crossings to 
improve safety and local multimodal circulation. 
Policy C-P5.5
Transit Safety. Prioritize improvements to increase safety, access, comfort, and 
educate the public about the benefits of transit use at transit centers and bus 
stops in disadvantaged communities, along commercial corridors, and in dense, 
mixed-use neighborhoods. 
Transit Safety. Prioritize improvements to increase safety, access, and comfort, 
and educate the public about the benefits of transit use at transit centers and 
bus stops in disadvantaged communities, along commercial corridors, and in 
dense, mixed-use neighborhoods. 
Policy C-P5.6
Transit Access in New Developments.  Require new development projects to 
incorporate design elements that facilitate or improve access to public transit.  
Recommended New Policy: 
Transit Education. Educate the public about the benefits of transit use. 
346 of 386

--- page 347 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-10
ACTIONS
Action C-A5.1
Grade Separation Study. Conduct a grade separation feasibility study for all at-
grade rail crossings in San Mateo. Identify funding to complete these grade 
crossing improvements. 
Action C-A5.2
Transit Experience Improvements. Prioritize installing new transit shelters and 
benches or other seating and an energy-efficient street lighting program at 
transit stops in disadvantaged communities and areas that improve transit 
access, safety and experience. 
Action C-A5.3
Transit Ridership.  Coordinate with SamTrans, Caltrain, and Joint Powers Board 
(JPB) to support implementation of transit improvements, including the 
following:

Transit priority treatments, such as signal priority, on high frequency transit corridors.

Extended hours to provide service for shift workers.

Bus rapid transit (BRT) in San Mateo.

Caltrain modernization, electrification, transit experience improvements, and increased service 
frequency. 

Support implementation of Caltrain's business plan, including increased service to San Mateo’s three 
stations.

Improve Caltrain station access by ensuring sidewalks and bikeways near each station are designed 
to provide safe and convenient access to and from transit.

Support regional transit integration and expansion efforts to improve seamless access to BART, High 
Speed Rail, and other regional transit systems. 
Action C-A5.4
Shuttle Programs. Continue to support public shuttle programs connecting to 
Caltrain stations. Work to expand public awareness and access to shuttles and 
expand shuttle service. Support the implementation of publicly accessible 
private shuttles. 
ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS
GOAL C-6
Achieve a transportation system that prioritizes user safety, 
accommodates future growth, reduces vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per 
capita, and maintains efficient and safe operations for all modes and all 
residents. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P6.1
Roadway Operations. Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all 
intersections and all modes within the City. 
347 of 386

--- page 348 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-11
Policy C-P6.2
Circulation Improvement Plan. Maintain a transportation network that will 
accommodate future growth, reduce VMT per capita, and equitably implement 
complete streets. 
Policy C-P6.3
Local Transportation Analysis. Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy 
for development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on 
the roadway system.  
Policy C-P6.4
Neighborhood Traffic. Implement traffic calming measures on residential 
streets to reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds. 
Policy C-P6.5
Truck Routes. Maintain and update the truck route network to utilize roadways 
that are adequately designed for truck usage and minimize potential conflicts 
with other transportation modes. 
Policy C-P6.6
Capital Improvement Program. Prioritize improvements that increase person 
throughput in project prioritization in order to reduce VMT. 
Policy C-P6.7
Traffic Signal Installation. A warrant analysis may be used to determine the 
need for signalization and shall include consideration of both existing and 
projected traffic and pedestrian volumes, traffic delays and interruptions, 
collision history, and proximity of sensitive land uses, such as schools. A 
development project may be required to fund signalization and maintenance of 
off-site unsignalized intersections if warranted as determined by the 
appropriate transportation analysis. 
Policy C-P6.8
Emergency Signal Preemption. Require new and upgraded signals to include 
pre-emption for emergency vehicles to maintain and enhance emergency 
response times. 
ACTIONS:
Action C-A6.1
Multimodal Level of Service Standard. Evaluate and adopt an operational 
metric for all roadway users that accounts for the safe, equitable, and efficient 
roadway access. 
Action C-A6.2
Prioritization and Timing of Roadway Improvements. Revise the Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) prioritization system to include additional criteria 
such as: potential to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita; proximity 
to high-injury locations identified in the Local Roads Safety Plan; eligibility and 
availability of grant or other funding source; benefit or harm to disadvantaged 
communities; and correlation with the distribution and pace of development, 
reflecting the degree of need for mitigation. 
348 of 386

--- page 349 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-12
Action C-A6.3
Congestion Management. Work with neighboring agencies and regional 
partners, such as the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo 
County (C/CAG), to implement traffic management strategies and technologies, 
such as signal coordination, to manage local traffic congestion. 
PARKING MANAGEMENT
GOAL C-7
Use parking, enforcement, and curb management strategies to effectively 
administer parking supply and maximize utilization of public assets. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P7.1
Parking Management. Manage parking through appropriate pricing, 
enforcement, and other strategies to support economic growth and vitality, 
transportation equity, and environmental sustainability. Ensure that the 
available parking supply is utilized at levels that meet ongoing needs without 
inducing additional demand or hindering future development. 
Policy C-P7.2
Shared Parking. Encourage new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing 
parking supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and 
encourage "park once" behavior in commercial areas. 
Policy C-P7.3
Public Parking. Maximize opportunities to expand the availability of existing 
parking by supporting the use of public/shared parking at private developments, 
discouraging reserved parking at new developments, providing incentives for 
developments to include shared/public parking, and allowing developers to fund 
public parking in-lieu of meeting parking demand/requirements on site. 
Policy C-P7.4
Bicycle Parking. Require the provision of bicycle parking as part of new private 
developments. 
Policy C-P7.5
Curbside Management. Manage the supply and utilization of the curb to 
maintain an optimal balance between mobility, storage, placemaking, and 
loading uses allowing for flexibility for adaptive re-use, safety improvements, 
and activation of curb space whenever possible. 
Policy C-P7.6
Loading Areas in New Developments.  Require adequate off-street loading in 
new development. Consider shared loading where feasible. 
Loading Areas in New Developments.  Require adequate off-street loading in to 
meet the needs of new development. Consider shared loading where feasible. 
349 of 386

--- page 350 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-13
ACTIONS
Action C-A7.1
Parking Maximums. Amend the zoning ordinance to replace parking minimums 
with parking maximums to allow developers and the City the flexibility to 
provide parking at levels that encourage desired development and are 
appropriate to the conditions of the development and its context. 
Action C-A7.2
Parking Management Strategies. Deploy enhanced parking management 
strategies, parking enforcement, and evaluate dynamic parking pricing 
strategies that fluctuate based on peak parking and/or district level parking 
demands. 
Action C-A7.3
Curbside Management Strategies. Evaluate and implement curb management 
strategies such as incentivizing or discouraging certain types of trips, mode 
choices, and behaviors in favor of broader mobility goals. 
Action C-A7.4
Emerging Technology for Curbside Management. Evaluate and implement 
performance monitoring and evaluation systems, such as digitization of curbside 
assets, to dynamically manage evolving curbside demands. 
Action C-A7.5
Truck Loading. Evaluate and implement ways to reduce conflicts between truck 
loading and pedestrian, bicycle, and transit networks. 
Action C-A7.6
Public Bicycle Parking. Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City 
facilities, and transit facilities. 
Action C-A7.7
Mechanical Parking Lift. Adopt and maintain an updated mechanical parking lift 
code or policy. 
FUTURE MOBILITY AND TECHNOLOGY
GOAL C-8
Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership 
framework that flexibly encourages emerging transportation 
technologies in service of City and community goals. 
POLICIES
Policy C-P8.1
Emerging Technologies. Monitor, evaluate, test, and implement new 
technologies that expand options for safe and efficient trip making. 
Policy C-P8.2
Equitable Mobility Options. Prioritize the needs and perspectives of residents 
of disadvantaged communities, those who speak limited English, and low-
income, senior, and disabled travelers in the design, deployment, and 
management of new mobility services and technologies. (Environmental Justice)  
350 of 386

--- page 351 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page C-14
Policy C-P8.3
Mobility Data. Leverage mobility data to support new policies, investments, and 
programmatic actions in service of City goals. 
ACTIONS
Action C-A8.1
Umbrella Regulations for Modern Mobility. Develop comprehensive 
regulations and infrastructure standards that are not exclusive to specific 
service providers and that support a spectrum of digital information, 
micromobility services, and connected and autonomous vehicles.
Umbrella Regulations for Modern Mobility. Develop comprehensive regulations 
and infrastructure standards that are not exclusive to specific service providers 
and that support a spectrum of digital information, micromobility services, and 
connected andemerging technologies, such as autonomous vehicles.  
Action C-A8.2
Strategic Partnerships and Pilots. Create strategic partnerships and pilots with 
the mobility industry and community organizations that increase mobility 
options for San Mateans. 
Action C-A8.3
Future-Ready Infrastructure. Establish public realm policies and tools that 
reflect San Mateo’s goals and priorities in the design and management of 
streets, curbs, sidewalks, and parking facilities to account for emerging mobility 
trends and changes in demand over time. 
Action C-A8.4
Equitable Mobility Technology. Develop an equitable mobility policy and data 
sharing requirements for vendors to ensure equitable deployment of emerging 
mobility options with consideration of residents who may be digitally 
challenged. 
Equitable Mobility Technology. Develop an equitable mobility policy, including a  
and data sharing requirements policy, for vendors to ensure equitable 
deployment of emerging mobility options with consideration of residents who 
may be digitally challenged. 
Action C-A8.5
Intelligent Transportation Systems. Evaluate and deploy Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (ITS) measures to efficiently manage traffic operations 
and incident response, enhance transit service efficiency, and better detect and 
prioritize the travel and safety of people walking and biking. 
351 of 386

--- page 352 ---
Page COS-1
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
6.
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS & AND RECREATION ELEMENT
These suggested revisions to the draft goals, policies and actions are based on input provided by 
staff, community members, the General Plan Subcommittee and the Planning Commission, and 
are shown in italics and track changes. For policies and actions with suggested revisions, they are 
listed below the original draft language that was published in July for comparison purposes. 
GOALS AND POLICIES
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
GOAL COS-1
Protect and enhance the City's natural resource areas that provide plant 
and animal habitat and benefit human and ecological health and 
resilience. 
POLICIES
Policy COS-P1.1
Sensitive Natural Communities. Protect riparian habitat and other sensitive 
natural communities. 
Sensitive Natural Communities. Protect riparian habitat and other sensitive 
natural communities. When an opportunity arises, restore natural resources 
including wetlands. 
Policy COS-P1.2
Interjurisdiction Coordination.  Coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions and 
regional, State, and federal agencies to protect critical wildlife habitat, including 
by participating in comprehensive habitat management programs. 
Policy COS-P1.3
Site Evaluations.  Require independent professional evaluation of sites for any 
public or private development located within known or potential habitat of 
species designated by State and federal agencies as rare, threatened, or 
endangered. 
The site evaluation shall determine the presence/absence of these special-
status plant and animal species on the site. The surveys associated with the 
evaluation shall be conducted for proper identification of the species. The 
evaluation shall consider the potential for significant impacts on special-status 
plant and animal species and shall include feasible mitigation measures to 
mitigate such impacts to the satisfaction of the City and appropriate 
governmental agencies (e.g., U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and California 
Department of Fish and Game). The City shall require adequate mitigation 
measures for ensuring the protection of sensitive resources and achieving “no 
net loss” of sensitive habitat acreage, values, and functions. 
352 of 386

--- page 353 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-2
In lieu of the site evaluation, presence of special status plant and animal species 
may be assumed and the City may require mitigation requiring “no net loss” 
mitigation of sensitive habitat acreage may be applied to the satisfaction of the 
City and appropriate governmental agencies. 
Policy COS-P1.4
Development Near Wetlands or Water. Restrict or modify proposed 
development in areas that contain wetlands or waters to ensure the continued 
health and survival of special-status species and sensitive habitat areas.  
Development projects shall be designed to avoid impacts on sensitive resources, 
or to adequately mitigate impacts by providing on-site or off-site replacement at 
a higher ratio.  Project design modification shall include adequate avoidance 
measures such as the use of setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage 
control features, or other measures to ensure that no net loss of wetland 
acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat value occurs. This may 
include the use of setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage control 
features, or other measures to maintain existing habitat and hydrologic 
functions of retained wetlands and waters of the US.  
Policy COS-P1.5
Wetland Development Mitigation.  Avoid wetlands development where 
feasible (as defined under State CEQA Guidelines Section 15364).  When an 
applicant has demonstrated that no net loss of wetlands would occur and that 
on-site restoration is not feasible, provide replacement habitat on-site through 
restoration and/or habitat creation that would ensure no net loss of wetland 
acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat value. Off-site wetland 
mitigation preferably will consist of the same habitat type as the wetland area 
that would be lost. 
1.
Restricting or modifying proposed development in areas that contain 
wetlands or waters of the U.S., as defined by U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
delineations, as necessary to ensure the continued health and survival of 
special-status species and sensitive habitat areas.  Development projects 
shall be designed to avoid impacts on sensitive resources, or to 
adequately mitigate impacts by providing on-site replacement or (as a 
lowest priority) off-site replacement at a higher ratio.  Modification in 
project design shall include adequate avoidance measures to ensure that 
no net loss of wetland acreage, function, water quality protection, and 
habitat value occurs.  This may include the use of setbacks, buffers, and 
water quality, drainage control features, or other measures to maintain 
existing habitat and hydrologic functions of retained wetlands and waters 
of the U.S.
2.
Designing public access to avoid or minimize disturbance to sensitive 
resources, including necessary setback/buffer areas, while facilitating 
public use, enjoyment, and appreciation of wetlands.
353 of 386

--- page 354 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-3
3.
Avoiding wetlands development where feasible (as defined under State 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15364).  Where complete avoidance of 
jurisdictional wetlands is not feasible (as defined under State CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15364), require provision of replacement habitat on-
site through restoration and/or habitat creation that would ensure no net 
loss of wetland acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat 
value. Allow restoration of wetlands off-site only when an applicant has 
demonstrated that no net loss of wetlands would occur and that on-site 
restoration is not feasible.  Off-site wetland mitigation preferably will 
consist of the same habitat type as the wetland area that would be lost. 
Policy COS-P1.6
Bird Island. Manage Bird Island as a bird nesting and breeding site. 
Bird Island. Manage Maintain Bird Island as a bird nesting and breeding site. 
<Located in the Lagoon adjacent to Bayside/Joinville Park. A location map will be 
included in the Draft General Plan.>
ACTION 
Action COS-A1.2
Environmental Review. Review the environmental documents for projects 
located adjacent to City boundaries regarding impacts and mitigations to 
species and habitat. 
ACCESS TO NATURE
GOAL COS-2
Ensure that current and future generations will enjoy the environmental, 
social, health, and economic benefits derived from access to our urban 
forest, parks, and open spaces. 
POLICIES
Policy COS-P2.1
Sustainable Access. Continue to design and manage public access to the City’s 
natural resources in a way that promotes public health and connection to 
nature while avoiding or minimizing disturbance and sustaining these resources 
into the future. 
Policy COS-P2.2
Equitable Conservation. Prioritize preservation, restoration, and enhancement 
of natural landscapes in or near underserved communities for their role in 
improving air quality and community health. 
Policy COS-P2.3
Shoreline Interpretive Opportunities. Promote public awareness of the value 
and care of the Shoreline for habitat values, water quality, and safety through 
on-site interpretive programs or outdoor displays which are in character with 
the adjacent open spaces. 
354 of 386

--- page 355 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-4
Policy COS-P2.4
Lagoon and Shoreline Public Access.  Require public access from new 
developments adjacent to the Marina Lagoon and Shoreline as a condition of 
approval. 
Policy COS-P2.5
Sugarloaf Mountain Management.  Improve, maintain, and manage the natural 
qualities and habitat of Sugarloaf Mountain and Laurelwood Park, including 
management of public access, study, recreation, and wildland fire hazards.
Policy COS-P2.6
Sugarloaf Mountain Interpretive Opportunities. Promote public awareness of 
the value and care of Sugarloaf Mountain through on-site interpretive programs 
or displays which are in character with the open space, consistent with the 
adopted management plan. 
ACTION
Action COS-A2.1
Improvements to Bayfront Nature Area. Review plans for the remaining 
uncompleted portions of Shoreline Park, including the Bayfront Nature Area, 
Tidelands Park, San Mateo Creek improvements east of Highway 101, Bay 
Marshes and J. Hart Clinton Drive to ensure they reflect current environmental 
and programmatic needs.  
Recommended New Action: 
Volunteer Program. Focus volunteer resources on restoring native habitat 
around the City, especially in the creeks, where feasible. 
WATER QUALITY, CREEKS, AND RIPARIAN AREAS
GOAL COS-3
Protect and improve San Mateo’s creeks as valuable habitat, green 
infrastructure, and components of human and environmental health.  
POLICIES
Policy COS-P3.1
Low Impact Development. Minimize stormwater runoff and pollution by 
encouraging low-impact design (LID) features, such as pervious parking surfaces, 
bioswales, and filter strips in new development.  
Policy COS-P3.2
Water Quality Standards. Manage City creeks, channels, and the Marina 
Lagoon, to meet applicable state and federal water quality standards and 
sustain aquatic/wildlife habitat appropriate to the water flow. 
Water Quality Standards. Manage City creeks, channels, and the Marina 
Lagoon, to meet applicable state and federal water quality standards and 
sustain aquatic/wildlife habitat appropriate to the water flow. Protect and 
restore creeks to a level acceptable for healthy marine and bird habitat. 
355 of 386

--- page 356 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-5
Policy COS-P3.3
Aesthetic and Habitat Values - Public Creeks. Preserve and enhance the 
aesthetic and habitat values of creeks, such as San Mateo, Laurel, and Beresford 
creeks, and other City-owned channels in all activities affecting these creeks, 
including revegetation, erosion control, and adequate setbacks for structures. 
Policy COS-P3.4
Aesthetic and Habitat Values – Private Creeks. Encourage preservation and 
enhance the aesthetic and habitat values of privately owned sections of all 
other creeks and channels, shown in Figure C/OS-1. 
Policy COS-P3.5
Hydrologic Impacts. Ensure that improvements to creeks and other waterways 
do not cause adverse hydrologic impacts or significantly increase the volume or 
velocity of flow of the subject creek. 
Policy COS-P3.6
New Creekside Development Requirements. Require that new creekside 
development protect and improve setbacks, banks, and waterways adjacent to 
the development projects in order to increase flood protection and enhance 
riparian vegetation and water quality.
Policy COS-P3.7
Groundwater Recharge in Open Spaces. Protect existing open spaces, natural 
habitat, floodplains, and wetland areas that serve as groundwater recharge 
areas. 
Policy COS-P3.8
Groundwater Recharge in Urban Areas. Protect groundwater recharge and 
groundwater quality when considering new development projects. 
Policy COS-P3.9
Preservation of Beneficial Uses. Manage Marina Lagoon to balance and 
enhance its beneficial uses. Manage other water bodies to allow for limited 
nearby recreation, such as picnicking, hiking, boating, sightseeing, and 
interpretive study.  
ACTIONS
Action COS-A3.1
Stormwater Treatment. Continue to participate in the San Mateo Countywide 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program to ensure compliance with the 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit to prevent 
water pollution from point and non-point sources.
Action COS-A3.2
Groundwater Recharge Area Mapping. Identify, map, and disseminate 
information on groundwater recharge areas, to the extent feasible, and provide 
educational materials and resource information on ways of reducing and 
limiting the development of non-pervious surfaces in those areas. 
Action COS-A3.3
Incentives for Low Impact Development. Develop and implement incentives to 
encourage applicants to include low-impact design features in new 
development. 
356 of 386

--- page 357 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-6
AIR QUALITY
GOAL COS-4
All San Mateo residents should have the ability to breathe safe, clean air.  
POLICIES
Policy COS-P4.1
Air Quality Thresholds. Use thresholds of significance that match or are more 
stringent than the air quality thresholds of significance identified in the current 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) Air Quality Guidelines 
when evaluating air quality impacts of projects. 
Policy COS-P4.2
Health Risk Assessment. Require a cumulative health risk assessment, including 
consideration of truck traffic impacts, when a project potentially affects 
sensitive receptors in disadvantaged communities, and require appropriate 
mitigation based on the findings of the assessment. 
Health Risk Assessment. Require new sources of air pollution that will generate 
significant new and unmitigable air quality impacts or expose sensitive receptors 
to substantial increases in harmful emissions of toxic air pollutants to prepare a 
Health Risk Assessment that identifies appropriate mitigation consistent with 
BAAQMD California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Air Quality Guidelines, 
based on the findings of the Health Risk Assessment. Require a cumulative 
health risk assessment, including consideration of truck traffic impacts, when a 
project potentially affects sensitive receptors in disadvantaged communities, 
and require appropriate mitigation based on the findings of the assessment.
Policy COS-P4.3
Activity Near Sensitive Receptors. Comply with State regulations that prohibit 
nonessential idling of vehicles near sensitive receptors such as the requirements 
outlined in Title 13 CCR 9 Sections 2449, article 4.8, and Title 13 CCR 10 Sections 
2480 and 2485 of the California Code of Regulations.  
Policy COS-P4.4
Odors. When proposed development generating odors is proposed near 
residences or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be 
provided (based on recommendations and requirements of the California Air 
Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions 
shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
Potential mitigation associated with this policy requirement will be coordinated 
with any required permit conditions from BAAQMD. 
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of odors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
Policy COS-P4.5
Toxic Air Contaminants. Require that when new development that would be a 
source of toxic air contaminants (TACs) is proposed near residences or sensitive 
357 of 386

--- page 358 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-7
receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of TACs, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to the source to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
Policy COS-P4.6
Air Quality Construction Impacts. Require new construction activities to 
mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities in 
compliance with BAAQMD’s regulations and guidelines on construction activity 
impacts.
Air Quality Construction Impacts. Require new construction and grading 
activities to mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities 
in compliance with BAAQMD’s regulations and guidelines on construction 
activity impacts.
Policy COS-P4.7
Truck Facilities. Require new development to provide adequate truck parking, 
loading space, and generators for refrigerated trucks to prevent idling. 
Recommended New Policy:
BAAQMD Planning for Healthy Places. Require new development to adhere to 
BAAQMD’s Planning Healthy Places guidance when local conditions warrant.
ACTIONS
Action COS-A4.1
Air Quality Improvement. Support and partner with Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District (BAAQMD) in monitoring, education, permitting, 
enforcement, grants programs, or other efforts to improve air quality issues and 
health outcomes for all. 
Action COS-A4.2
Clean Air Refuges. Develop and implement a plan to provide clean air refuges 
during times when outdoor air quality is unhealthy. Explore the feasibility of 
participating in State grant programs to fund retrofits of ventilation systems at 
public buildings to provide refuge for residents during periods of unhealthy air 
quality caused by excessive smoke from wildfires. 
HILLSIDES
GOAL COS-5
Minimize the impact of hillside development on the natural environment 
and public safety. 
358 of 386

--- page 359 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-8
POLICIES
Policy COS-P5.1
Hillside Development Principles.  Require hillside development to minimize 
impacts by preserving the existing topography, limiting cuts and fills, and 
clustering development. Limit development on steep hillsides with a 30 percent 
or higher slope. 
Policy COS-P5.2
Minimal Impacts. Require new development to preserve natural topographic 
forms and to minimize adverse impacts on vegetation, water, soil stability, and 
wildlife resources. 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES AND TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES
GOAL COS-6
Protect archaeological resources and resources that are culturally 
significant to Native American tribes and acknowledge San Mateo’s past 
as indigenous land. Encourage development projects to recognize 
historical tribal lands.
POLICIES
Policy COS-P6.1
Archaeological Resource Protection. Preserve, to the maximum extent feasible, 
archaeological sites with significant cultural, historical, or sociological merit for 
present-day residents or Native American tribes. 
Policy COS-P6.2
Tribal Cultural Resources. Preserve areas which have identifiable and important 
tribal cultural resources and comply with appropriate State and federal 
standards to evaluate and mitigate impacts to cultural resources, including 
tribal, historic, archaeological, and paleontological resources. 
Policy COS-P6.3
Tribal Consultation. Consult with Native American representatives, including 
through early coordination, to identify locations of importance to Native 
Americans, including archaeological sites, sacred sites, traditional cultural 
properties, and other types of tribal cultural resources. Respect tribal concerns 
if a tribe has a religious prohibition against revealing information about specific 
practices or locations.  
Policy COS-P6.4
Potential Archaeological Impacts. Consistent with CEQA, prior to construction, 
consult the California Archaeological Inventory Northwest Information Center 
for project-specific reviews to evaluate the potential for impact on 
archaeological resources and determine whether or not further study is 
warranted. 
359 of 386

--- page 360 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-9
Policy COS-P6.5
On-Site Mitigation. If development could affect a tribal cultural resource or 
archaeological resource, require the developer to contact an appropriate tribal 
representative to train construction workers on appropriate avoidance and 
minimization measures, requirements for confidentiality and culturally 
appropriate treatment, other applicable regulations, and consequences of 
violating State laws and regulations. 
ACTION
Action COS-A6.1
Pre-Construction Investigations. Consistent with CEQA, establish specific 
procedures for pre-construction investigation of high and medium sensitivity 
sites identified in the 1983 Chavez investigation, unless superseded by more 
recent investigations, in order to assist property owners, developers, and the 
City in making decisions when archaeological resources may be affected. 
Recommended New Action:
Archeological Sensitivity Data. Update and maintain the City’s data on areas 
with high archaeological sensitivity. 
PARKS AND RECREATION  
GOAL COS-7
Provide a comprehensive system of park and recreation programs and 
facilities based on the needs of the City's residents to encourage healthy 
lifestyles and ensure access for all. 
POLICIES
Policy COS-P7.1
Active and Healthy Lifestyles.   Maintain and expand programs that promote 
active and healthy lifestyles and incorporate health and wellness practices into 
everyday life, such as healthy eating and nutrition education programs, water 
safety and swim programs, and youth fitness activities. 
Active and Healthy Lifestyles.   Maintain and expand programs that promote 
active and healthy lifestyles and incorporate health and wellness practices into 
everyday life, such as healthy eating and nutrition education programs, water 
safety and swim programs, walking and bicycling as a mode of healthy 
transportation, and youth fitness activities. 
Policy COS-P7.2
Creating Community. Cultivate opportunities to come together as a community, 
celebrate our heritage, cultures and milestones, and have social supports 
available, which are key to creating a sense of community and building 
community resilience. 
Policy COS-P7.3
Creative Outlets.  Provide skill development and performance opportunities 
within each of the major art forms with an emphasis on promoting lifelong 
enjoyment to nurture creative discovery.
360 of 386

--- page 361 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-10
Policy COS-P7.4
Enrichment and Lifelong Learning. Provide a wide array of enriching and 
lifelong learning opportunities that provide mental stimulation, self-
improvement, exploration, educational opportunities, and skills that can be 
applied at home or business. 
Policy COS-P7.5
Parks as Learning Environments. Enhance the role of parks as learning 
environments by providing interpretive opportunities to community 
organizations and at City-operated facilities to increase public awareness of 
their unique cultural, historical, and environmental characteristics.  
Policy COS-P7.6
Child and Youth Development.  Provide pre-school through teenage youth with 
a variety of experiences that nurture individuality, spark imagination, encourage 
active recreation, and build the skills needed to ensure success in the next stage 
of development. 
Policy COS-P7.7
Aging Adults. Promote policies, programs, services and public infrastructure 
improvements through either direct City provision or through collaborative 
partnerships with other agencies to ensure that older adults can age in place 
while feeling valued and supported. 
Policy COS-P7.8
Community-Led Activity Initiatives. Work with local community groups and San 
Mateo County Health to initiate walking, hiking, cycling, and other recreation 
clubs and activities to increase participation, safety, and social cohesion. 
Policy COS-P7.9
Conservation and Nature Awareness. Increase public awareness of the 
importance of and appreciation for conservation opportunities and the value of 
connecting children to nature with enhanced programs and public outreach. 
Policy COS-P7.10
Central Park. Promote Central Park’s character as the City’s signature park and 
community gathering place. 
ACTION
Action COS-A7.1
Coordination with Education Providers. Coordinate with other education 
providers, such as the College of San Mateo and the Public Library, to identify 
appropriate service targets and provide activities within those identified targets. 
Coordination with Education Providers. Coordinate with other education 
providers, such as including local school districts, the College of San Mateo, and 
the Public Library, to identify appropriate service targets and provide activities 
within those identified targets.
GOAL COS-8
Provide equitable and convenient access to parks, recreational programs, 
and facilities so that all residents experience the benefits of parks and 
open space on their physical and mental health. 
361 of 386

--- page 362 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-11
POLICIES
Policy COS-P8.1
Accessible Facilities. Continue to provide general park facilities that are free and 
open to the public, except for reservations of specific facilities by groups or 
individuals, or for facilities that traditionally charge fees (e.g., Golf Course, 
Marina Lagoon). 
Accessible Facilities. Continue to provide general park facilities that are free and 
open to the public, except for reservations of specific facilities by groups or 
individuals, or for facilities that traditionally charge fees (e.g., Golf Course, 
Marina Lagoon). Address the lack of access to recreational facilities for 
neighborhoods east of El Camino Real, especially east of 101.
Policy COS-P8.2
Recreation Fee Assistance. Continue to provide program fee assistance to 
qualifying families and older adults consistent with the Park and Recreation 
Commission-endorsed administrative policy for fee assistance.
Recommended New Policies: 
Privately-Owned Public Spaces. Require privately-owned publicly accessible 
open spaces to include signage that encourages public access and makes clear 
that the space is intended for all to enjoy. 
Equitable Access Analysis. When developing park master plans, include an 
equitable access analysis to identify deficiencies and potential solutions to 
address deficiencies found in the analysis.
ACTIONS
Action COS-A8.1
Customer Service. Adopt policies and practices that create satisfied customers 
and develop life-long relationships with our users. 
Action COS-A8.2
Inclusion and Accessibility. Create policies, programs and facility designs that 
are inclusive, respectful, and supportive for all members of the community. 
Expand cultural awareness and appreciation through culturally relevant 
programs and special events.
Action COS-A8.3
Inclusion and Accessibility. Create policies, programs and facility designs that 
are inclusive, respectful, and supportive for all members of the community. 
Expand cultural awareness and appreciation through culturally relevant 
programs and special events.
Inclusion and Accessibility. Create policies, programs and facility designs that 
are age-integrated, inclusive, respectful, and supportive for all members of the 
community. Expand cultural awareness and appreciation through culturally 
relevant programs and special events.
362 of 386

--- page 363 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-12
Action COS-A8.4
Resident Input. Solicit a broad spectrum of resident input for major park 
improvements or park master plans. Conduct multi-lingual and culturally 
sensitive outreach to ensure all voices are included in park planning efforts and 
that San Mateo’s parks reflect the diversity of the community. 
Action COS-A8.5
Public Information. Communicate through diverse channels and in multiple 
languages the benefits and value park and recreation services bring in making 
San Mateo a more livable, economically viable, and socially responsible 
community.  
Action COS-A8.6
Technology Innovation. Identify and incorporate technology innovations as an 
ongoing strategy to better serve the public, e.g. virtual trail maps, digitalized 
park signage, virtual programming, etc. 
Provide the appropriate mix of parks and facilities that balances the needs of active and passive 
facilities, allows formal and informal uses, is accessible for all residents, and meets existing and 
future recreation needs.  
POLICIES
Policy COS-P8.3
Facility Standards.  Use the Park and Recreation Facility Standards to assess the 
adequacy of existing facilities; to design, develop, and redevelop sites, and to 
acquire or accept new sites.  
Policy COS-P8.4
Acreage Standards. Acquire or accept for dedication two acres of neighborhood 
and community parks per 1,000 residents.
Policy COS-P8.5
Walkable Parks and Amenities. Provide accessible public park or other 
recreational opportunities that are within approximately 1/3 of a mile of 
residents without travel over significant barriers. Ideally, one or more of the 
following amenities should be available: multi-purpose turf area, children's play 
area with pre-school and youth apparatus, seating areas, picnic areas, a multi-
use court, and an opportunity for passive enjoyment of an aesthetic landscaped 
space. 
Policy COS-P8.6
Active Use Facilities. Provide sufficient active use facilities to support current 
needs and future trends including but not limited to multi-use athletic turf 
areas; court games; action sports, e.g. biking; and a system of pedestrian and 
bike trails that will provide interconnectivity between parks.  
Policy COS-P8.7
Master Planning.  Continue to prepare and maintain master plans for all 
undeveloped parks and for those parks over two acres in size prior to 
development or major redevelopment. Allow interim uses if such uses will not 
adversely impact or limit potential permanent uses. 
363 of 386

--- page 364 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-13
Policy COS-P8.8
Rehabilitation or Purchase of School Sites.  Consider contributions towards 
rehabilitation or the purchase of recreational facilities on surplus school sites 
based upon an evaluation of their value as community recreation resources.  
Recommended New Policy: 
Passive Recreation. Support efforts to create a passive recreation system that 
connects parks and nodes in the city to increase connectivity on select public 
right-of-ways for pedestrians. 
ACTIONS
Action COS-A8.7
Regional Facilities. Explore the feasibility of developing regional recreational 
and sports complexes with neighboring cities. 
Action COS-A8.8
Bay Meadows Community Park.  Complete the master planning for Bay 
Meadows Community Park to reflect its value as a city-wide asset that can 
address one or more identified facility deficiencies. 
GOAL COS-9
Plan and develop well-designed parks and recreation facilities compatible 
with surrounding uses that promote accessibility, efficient use, and 
practical maintenance. 
POLICIES
Policy COS-P9.1
Rehabilitation Priorities.  Prioritize parks and recreation facilities projects that 
rehabilitate facilities that have become or will become costly to maintain, only 
marginally usable, meet the highest community needs, provide significant 
benefits in relation to costs or are located in equity priority communities. 
Policy COS-P9.2
Park Preservation.  Preserve existing parklands, open spaces, and the golf 
course for open space and recreational use. 
Park Preservation.  Preserve existing parklands, open spaces, and the golf 
course for open space, habitat, and recreational use. 
Policy COS-P9.3
Shared Use. Encourage schools to make their facilities available for City and 
community-sponsored activities to the greatest extent possible, and encourage 
school agencies to adopt reasonable user fees and operating practices that 
allow improved community access.  
Policy COS-P9.4
Optimum Cost-Effectiveness. Maintain and upgrade park infrastructure to 
optimize its cost effectiveness and value in meeting community recreation 
needs. 
Optimum Cost-Effectiveness. Proactively mMaintain and upgrade park 
infrastructure to optimize its cost effectiveness and value in meeting community 
recreation needs. 
364 of 386

--- page 365 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-14
Policy COS-P9.5
Sustainability Practices. Operate park and recreation facilities using 
environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable management and 
operating practices that proactively reverse the impacts of climate change or 
better prepare for its effects. 
Policy COS-P9.6
Maintenance Standards. Maintain the park system by a set of maintenance 
standards that reflects community values; maintains, promotes, and optimizes 
positive use; reduces wildfire risk; and ensures that equipment and facilities are 
maintained in a safe condition. 
Policy COS-P9.7
Environmentally-Sound Park Operations. Utilize native and drought tolerant 
plant species, efficient irrigation systems, reclaimed water, and sustainable 
management practices. Expand efforts to improve recycling opportunities in all 
parks and implement trash reduction measures, especially during large 
community events. 
Policy COS-P9.8
San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation. Continue to support the San 
Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation efforts to expand non-city 
resource opportunities, such as funding and volunteers, in support of park 
development, improvements, and maintenance. 
ACTIONS
Action COS-A9.1
Recreation Facility Infrastructure. Implement the highest priority 
improvements identified from the Recreation Facilities Master Plan with special 
focus on improvements that address safety and accessibility, geographic equity, 
child care, aquatics and multi-generational programming.  
Action COS-A9.2
Design Principles and Park Image.  Establish design principles for all new or 
renovated parks to maximize productivity, efficiency and community value, 
including adding the potential for flexible use for emergency shelters and 
disaster response. Develop an image plan which includes the effective use of 
signage, color, lighting and plant material which meets both aesthetic and 
maintenance needs. 
Action COS-A9.3
Maximized Park Assets. Review and update the Asset Management Plan to 
identify the highest and best use of undeveloped parcels or underutilized areas 
within existing parks to ensure they are best positioned to meet current and 
future needs. 
Action COS-A9.4
Strategic Community Partnerships. Develop and maintain positive partnership 
relations with schools, businesses, community groups, and civic organizations 
for park access, maintenance, and enhancement to maximize resources, 
eliminate duplication of effort, and reach common goals. 
365 of 386

--- page 366 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T
Page COS-15
Action COS-A9.5
Neighborhood-Supported Projects.  Increase efforts to seek neighborhood 
support for enhancement and beautification projects as the City’s fiscal 
resources become constrained. 
Neighborhood-Supported Projects.  Increase efforts to seek neighborhood 
support for enhancement and beautification projects as the City’s fiscal 
resources become constrained. Prioritize enhancement and beautification efforts 
in equity priority communities.
Recommended New Action: 
School Gym Access. Partner with local school districts to explore ways to expand 
public access to school gymnasiums. 
GOAL COS-10
Provide stable and adequate operational and capital funding for the parks 
and recreation system.  
POLICIES
Policy COS-P10.1
Program Fees and Cost Recovery. Maintain and periodically update program 
fees to recover costs. 
Policy COS-P10.2
Maintenance and Operating Costs. Consider long-term maintenance and 
operating costs in acquisition, development, and redevelopment decisions. 
Policy COS-P10.3
Parks and Facilities in Major Projects. Factor park and facility maintenance and 
operating costs into park master plans or major facility upgrades. 
Policy COS-P10.4
Development Fees. Assess appropriate fees and taxes to ensure that new 
development contributes proportional funding to compensate for its impacts on 
recreation facilities and services. 
Policy COS-P10.5
Cooperative Service Delivery. Utilize opportunities for cooperative acquisition, 
development, operation, and programming with private organizations or other 
public agencies that will provide more effective or efficient service delivery.  
Recommended New Policy: 
Park Equipment and Maintenance. Phase out the use of gas-powered 
equipment and increase the utilization of more environmentally friendly 
fertilization options in City parks and facilities over time.
366 of 386

--- page 367 ---
Page PS-1
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
7.
PUBLIC SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTUREFACILITIES ELEMENT
These suggested revisions to the draft goals, policies and actions are based on input provided by 
staff, community members, the General Plan Subcommittee and the Planning Commission, and 
are shown in italics and track changes. For policies and actions with suggested revisions, they are 
listed below the original draft language that was published in July for comparison purposes. 
GOALS AND POLICIES
COMMUNITY SAFETY 
GOAL PS-1
Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by maintaining adequate 
police, fire, and life safety protection. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P1.1
Effective Police and Fire Services.  Maintain facilities, equipment, and personnel to 
provide an effective police force and fire protection to serve existing and future 
population and employment as identified in the Land Use Element. 
Policy PS-P1.2
Police Station.  Provide Police Station facilities to meet the facility requirements 
through 2040.  Distribute, locate, and design police support facilities (i.e. 
substations) as needed, to maximize effectiveness, use, accessibility for police 
personnel, and community interaction. 
Policy PS-P1.3
Fire Stations. Coordinate with and support San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department (SMCFD) to maintain a high level of service by modernizing Fire 
Stations. Provide new stations and improvements to existing stations and training 
facilities to meet equipment, staffing, and training requirements, as well as Essential 
Services Building Requirements. 
Fire Stations. Coordinate with and support San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
(SMC FireD) to maintain a high level of service by modernizing Fire Stations, as 
needed. Provide new stations and improvements to existing stations and training 
facilities to meet equipment, staffing, and training requirements, as well as Essential 
Services Building Requirements. 
Policy PS-P1.4
Fire Inspections.  Coordinate with and support SMC FireD to maintain fire inspection 
staffing levels to meet existing needs and the projected 2040 population, 
employment and development, and inspections mandated by other governmental 
agencies, consistent with the City’s Building Security Code. 
367 of 386

--- page 368 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-2
Policy PS-P1.5
Maintenance and Replacement.  Coordinate with and support SMC FireD to provide 
fire apparatus replacement and maintenance programs to achieve a high state of 
readiness.   
Policy PS-P1.6
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) Readiness.  Maintain the highest level of 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) readiness and response capabilities possible by 
encouraging inter-agency medical drills and exercises where hospital personnel 
work with emergency responders in the field and with Emergency Operation 
Centers and by encouraging citizens to become trained in basic medical triage and 
first aid through the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT). 
Policy PS-P1.7
Equitable Code Enforcement. Use code enforcement to advance equity, 
meaningfully engage with citizens, and mitigate negative impacts on the health and 
safety of residents and businesses. (Environmental Justice) 
WATER SUPPLY
GOAL PS-2
Support maintaining access to a safe, sustainable, and resilient supply of 
water for San Mateo. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P2.1
Supplemental Water Sources. Support efforts by California Water Service, Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, and adjacent jurisdictions to develop supplemental 
and resilient water sources. 
Policy PS-P2.2
Water Conservation. Support local, regional, and statewide water conservation 
efforts. 
Water Conservation. Work with California Water Service, Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, Bay Area Water Supply Conservation Agency and other mid-
peninsula cities to sSupport local, regional, and statewide water conservation 
efforts. Encourage all properties to convert to water efficient landscaping. 
Policy PS-P2.3
Water Efficiency. Support increased water efficiency in all new development and 
existing building stock. 
ACTIONS
Action PS-A2.1
Recycled Water. Explore the feasibility of working with California Water Service 
and/or Estero Municipal Improvement District to distribute recycled water to 
diversify the local water supply and support long-term water resilience. 
Action PS-A2.2
Water Reduction Strategies.  Work with California Water Service, Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, Bay Area Water Supply Conservation Agency and other mid-
peninsula cities to promote the water reduction strategies that are offered and to 
368 of 386

--- page 369 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-3
create an outreach program that will help inform residents and businesses of 
increased costs and the need for conservation efforts. 
Water Reduction Strategies.  Work with California Water Service, Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, Bay Area Water Supply Conservation Agency and other mid-
peninsula cities to promote the water reduction strategies that are offered and to 
create an outreach program that will help inform residents and businesses of 
increased costs, and the need for conservation efforts, and available incentives and 
rebates.   
SEWERWASTEWATER AND STORMFLOOD CONTROL DRAINAGEINFRASTRUCTURE
GOAL PS-3
Maintain sewer, storm drainage, sewer, and flood control facilities adequate 
to serve existing needs, projected population, and employment growth and 
that provide protection from climate change risk. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P3.1
Sewer System.  Provide a sewer system which safely and efficiently conveys sewage 
to the wastewater treatment plant. Implement the Sewer System Management Plan 
to ensure proper maintenance, operations, and management of all parts of the 
wastewater collection system. 
Policy PS-P3.2
Sewer Requirements for New Development.  Require new multi-family and 
commercial developments to evaluate the main sewer lines in the project vicinity 
which will be utilized by the new development and make any improvements 
necessary to convey the additional sewage flows. 
Policy PS-P3.3
Sewer Overflow Reduction. Encourage efforts to help reduce sanitary sewer 
overflows which create a public health hazard for residents and compromises the 
water quality of the City’s creeks and lagoons. 
Sewer Overflow Reduction. Encourage efforts to help reduceEliminate sanitary 
sewer overflows, which create a public health hazard for residents and compromises 
the water quality of the City’s creeks, and lagoons, and bays. 
Policy PS-P3.4
Wastewater Treatment Plant.  Provide adequate wastewater treatment for the 
projected service area population, employment, and development.  
Wastewater Treatment Plant. Provide adequate wastewater treatment for the 
projected service area population, employment, and development.  Operate, 
upgrade, and maintain the Wastewater Treatment Plant to ensure ongoing 
wastewater treatment in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Policy PS-P3.5
Inter-Agency Coordination for Wastewater Planning.  Coordinate future planning 
of the sewer collection and wastewater treatment plant with the other users of the 
systems, including the Estero Municipal Improvement District (City of Foster City), 
369 of 386

--- page 370 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-4
the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, Town of Hillsborough, and City of 
Belmont. 
Policy PS-P3.6
Coordinate Infrastructure Improvements. Combine, to the extent possible, 
upgrades and repairs to roadways with utility needs, infrastructure and broadband 
upgrades, and bicycle and pedestrian improvements.
Coordinate Infrastructure Improvements. Combine, to the extent possible, upgrades 
and repairs to public infrastructure, such as roadways with utility needs, broadband 
upgrades, bicycle and pedestrian improvements, and levees.roadways with utility 
needs, infrastructure and broadband upgrades, and bicycle and pedestrian 
improvements.
Policy PS-P3.7
Creek Alteration.  Prohibit any reduction of creek channel capacity, impoundment, 
or diversion of creek channel flows which would adversely affect adjacent 
properties or the degree of flooding.  Prevent erosion of creek banks. 
Policy PS-P3.8
Stormwater Drainage System. Implement the improvements identified in the City 
of San Mateo’s seven watershed areas shown in Figure PSF-1 to improve and 
maintain drainage capacity adequate to convey water during a design storm event.  
Include consideration of creek maintenance and an education and/or enforcement 
program to minimize illegal dumping of debris and chemicals. 
Stormwater Drainage System. Implement the improvements identified in the City of 
San Mateo’s seven watershed areas shown in Figure PSF-1 to improve and maintain 
drainage capacity adequate to convey water during a design storm event.  Include 
consideration of creek maintenance and an education and/or enforcement program 
to minimize illegal dumping of debris and chemicals. Operate, upgrade, and 
maintain a stormwater drainage and flood control system that safely and efficiently 
conveys runoff to prevent flooding and protect life and property; minimizes 
pollutants discharging to creeks and San Francisco Bay; manages stormwater as a 
resource and not a waste; and protects against the impacts of climate change.  
Recommended New Policies: 
Levee System. Continue to assess, maintain, and upgrade the City’s levee system. 
Collaborate with FEMA, OneShoreline, and neighboring agencies to ensure adequate 
flood and sea level rise protection.
Stormwater Pollution Prevention.  In accordance with requirements in the 
Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit, implement programs, plans, and policies to 
ensure pollutants are minimized in stormwater runoff.  
Sewer Lateral Upgrades.  Continue to support efforts to maintain and replace sewer 
laterals, such as the City’s private sewer lateral cost sharing program. 
370 of 386

--- page 371 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-5
ACTIONS
Action PS-A3.1
City Infrastructure Studies and Master Plans.  Develop and update studies and 
master plans to assess infrastructure and to develop a Capital Improvement 
Program to make any necessary improvements. 
City Infrastructure Studies and Master Plans.  Develop and update coordinate 
studies and master plans to assess infrastructure and to develop a Capital 
Improvement Program to make any necessary improvements. Incorporate climate 
change risks, such as such as the impacts of droughts, increasing storm events, sea 
level rise, and groundwater changes in the planning process.
Action PS-A3.2
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Education.  Partner with other agencies and 
organizations, such as Flows to Bay, to help inform residents and businesses of ways 
to protect water quality and prevent stormwater pollution. 
Action PS-A3.3
Dig Once. Establish a “dig once” policy, coordinating utility and roadway 
construction to avoid digging up the right-of-way multiple times, to reduce costs 
and impacts on the public right of way. The policy shall apply to infrastructure, 
utilities, and broadband whenever possible. 
Recommended New Actions:
Stormwater Requirements for Development.  In accordance with State regulatory 
mandates, require applicable new and redevelopment projects to incorporate site 
design, source control, treatment, and hydromodification management measures to 
minimize stormwater runoff volumes and associated pollutants.  Stormwater 
management via green infrastructure systems shall be prioritized.  
Green Infrastructure.  Implement the City’s Green Infrastructure Plan to gradually 
shift from a traditional stormwater conveyance system (“gray”) to a more natural 
system that incorporates plants and soils to mimic watershed processes, capture and 
clean stormwater, reduce runoff and increase infiltration, and create healthier 
environments (“green”).
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES
GOAL PS-4
Maintain and develop public facilities, and ensure they are equitably  
available to all current and future members of the community.  
POLICIES
Policy PS-P4.1
Equitable Facilities. Ensure that all San Mateo residents and employees have access 
to well-maintained facilities that meet community service needs. Encourage the 
development of reasonably priced facilities and services for vulnerable 
371 of 386

--- page 372 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-6
communities, such as children, low-income households, and seniors, in a variety of 
settings. 
Equitable Facilities. Ensure that all San Mateo residents and employees have access 
to well-maintained facilities that meet community service needs. Encourage the 
development of reasonably priced facilities and services for vulnerable communities, 
such as children, low-income households, and seniors, in a variety of settings. 
Policy PS-P4.2
Joint Use. Encourage joint use and public-private partnerships where feasible.   
Policy PS-P4.3
City Hall.  Upgrade or expand City Hall to increase office space and consider 
establishment of a Downtown facility or Civic Campus to meet City staffing needs 
through the year 2040. 
City Hall.  Consider Uupgradeing or expanding City Hall to increaseensure sufficient 
office space is available and consider establishment of a Downtown facility or Civic 
Campus to meetsupport City staffing and service needs through the year 2040 and 
beyond. 
Policy PS-P4.4
Library Resources and Services.  Continue to maintain a comprehensive collection 
of resources and services to help the community discover, enjoy, connect, and learn 
in an ever-changing world while offering quality library services and programs to a 
diverse community promoting literacy and lifelong learning. 
Library Resources and Services.  Continue to maintain a comprehensive collection of 
resources and services to help the community discover, enjoy, connect, and learn in 
an ever-changing world while offering quality library services and programs to a 
diverse community promoting literacy and lifelong learning. Maintain a materials 
budget, staffing, and service hours for the City's library system that are adequate to 
meet the community needs and meet the continuing changes in information 
technology.
Policy PS-P4.5
Library Service.  Maintain a materials budget, staffing, and service hours for the 
City's library system that are adequate to meet the community needs, provide 
current and adequate materials, and meet the continuing changes in information 
technology. 
Library ServiceFacilities.   Maintain capital investment for essential repairs and 
space-enhancements to meet current and future usage needs of library patrons and 
community organizations. Maintain a materials budget, staffing, and service hours 
for the City's library system that are adequate to meet the community needs, 
provide current and adequate materials, and meet the continuing changes in 
information technology. 
Policy PS-P4.6
Cultural and Entertainment Facilities.  Encourage the establishment of cultural and 
entertainment facilities in the downtown core and allow these types of uses to fulfill 
retail frontage requirements.  
372 of 386

--- page 373 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-7
Policy PS-P4.7
Incentives for Public Facilities. Provide incentives such as density bonuses to 
residential and non-residential developers to encourage space for public facilities in 
new development. 
Incentives for Public Facilities. Provide incentives such as density bonuses to 
residential and non-residential developers to encourage space for public facilities in 
new development.
Policy PS-P4.8
Corporation Yard.  Maintain corporation yard facilities with functions such as 
vehicle repair facilities, equipment and material storage, and administrative office 
space to support City operational needs. 
Policy PS-P4.9
San Mateo County Events Center.  Promote the physical and aesthetic 
improvement of the San Mateo County Events Center. 
Policy PS-P4.10
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community of potential public services and facilities 
improvements in their neighborhood. Use outreach and engagement methods that 
encourage broad representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for 
historically underserved communities. 
CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND SCHOOLS
GOAL PS-5
Foster the healthy development and education of children of all abilities, 
incomes, and backgrounds. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P5.1
School Assistance.  Support quality public education. 
School Assistance.  Support quality public education. efforts by the school district to 
maintain facilities, equipment, and personnel to provide quality public education to 
students in San Mateo.
Policy PS-P5.2
School Site Reuse or Redevelopment.  Ensure that reuse or redevelopment of 
surplus public school sites is compatible with surrounding land uses.  At the time 
any school sites are declared surplus, establish appropriate residential densities to 
support community housing needs.  Give first priority and consideration to 
affordable housing and community recreation needs for reuse of school sites in 
accordance with the priorities in the Housing Element and Conservation and Open 
Space Element.  Where it is in the community's interests to retain public recreation 
facilities, consider allowing density transfers from the portion of the site retained in 
public recreation use, as a means of reducing the cost of retaining the recreation 
facilities and achieving the maximum amount of housing.  
School Site Reuse or Redevelopment.  Ensure that reuse or redevelopment of 
surplus public school sites is compatible with surrounding land uses.  At the time 
any school sites are declared surplus, establish appropriate residential densities to 
support community housing needs.  Give first priority and consideration to 
373 of 386

--- page 374 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-8
affordable housing and community recreation needs for reuse of school sites in 
accordance with the priorities in the Housing Element and Conservation and Open 
Space Element.  Where it is in the community's interests to retain public recreation 
facilities, consider allowing density transfers from the portion of the site retained in 
public recreation use, as a means of reducing the cost of retaining the recreation 
facilities and achieving the maximum amount of housing.  <This policy is redundant 
with LU-P3.14, and is more appropriately placed in the Land Use Element>
Policy PS-P5.3
Child Care Needs.  Support the provision of child care programs and facilities to 
meet the needs through 2040. 
Child Care Needs.  Support the provision of child care programs and facilities to 
meet the needs of children of all abilities, incomes, and backgrounds through 2040. 
Policy PS-P5.4
Provision of Child Care. Encourage public and private agencies and employers to 
provide child care services and facilities. 
Policy PS-P5.5
Child Care Centers at Public and Quasi Public Facilities. Retain existing centers and 
support programs at school sites and other quasi-institutional facilities, because of 
their suitability for such uses and convenient locations in residential neighborhoods. 
Child Care Centers at Public and Quasi Public Facilities. Encourage retention of 
Retain existing centers and support programs at school sites and other quasi-
institutional facilities, because of their suitability for such uses and convenient 
locations in proximity to adjacent residential neighborhoods. 
Policy PS-P5.6
Child Care Centers in Residential Neighborhoods. Continue to allow child care 
centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards and 
encourage them at employment centers. 
Child Care Centers in Residential Neighborhoods. Continue to allowEncourage child 
care centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards and 
encourage them at employment centers. 
ACTIONS
Action PS-A5.1
School District Coordination. Maintain effective, collaborative relationships with all 
local school districts. 
Action PS-A5.2
Child Care and New Construction.  Encourage new residential and non-residential 
development to include space for child care by taking the following actions: 
a.
Provide incentives for inclusion of space for a child care center in a new 
development. 
b.
Promote child care to developers as an amenity favored by the City.
c.
Continue to implement the developer impact fee for funding child care facilities. 
374 of 386

--- page 375 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-9
HEALTHCARE AND SOCIAL SERVICES
GOAL PS-6
Support access for all residents to health care facilities, social services, and 
other important community health amenities. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P6.1
San Mateo County Hospital.  Encourage the County to maintain County Hospital 
services in the City to provide access to medical care for all residents. 
Policy PS-P6.2
Mills Health Center.  Support the Mills Health Center remaining in San Mateo, and 
encourage the continued provision and expansion of high-quality medical care 
services. 
Policy PS-P6.3
Social Services.  Support the provision of the City's fair share of social services.   
Avoid the concentration of social services in any one neighborhood, and seek 
dispersal throughout the City. Encourage other cities to provide their fair share of 
social service facilities. 
Social Services.  Support the provision of the City's fair share of social services. 
Balance the need for social services in each neighborhood while ensuring that 
services are dispersed throughout the city and not concentrated in Avoid the 
concentration of social services in any one neighborhood., and seek dispersal 
throughout the City. Encourage other cities to provide their fair share of social 
service facilities.
Policy PS-P6.4
Vulnerable Populations. Support local religious institutions in providing services and 
facilities for vulnerable populations. 
Vulnerable Populations. Support local religious institutions, nonprofit organizations, 
and community-based organizations in providing services and facilities for 
vulnerable populations.
Recommended New Policy: 
Health Centers.  Support the development of health care centers and the County’s 
efforts to provide mobile clinics that are convenient. Avoid the concentration of 
health centers in any one neighborhood.
ACTION
Action PS-A6.1
Community Health Care Facilities. Evaluate options to support existing and 
potential community health care facilities in equity priority communities through a 
variety of mechanisms such as reduced permit fees, reduced impact fees, and tax 
incentives. (Environmental Justice)
375 of 386

--- page 376 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E R V I C E S  E L E M E N T
Page PS-10
SOLID WASTE
GOAL PS-7
Reduce the generation of solid waste and increase the diversion of waste 
from landfills. 
POLICIES
Policy PS-P7.1
Solid Waste Disposal.  Continue to support waste reduction and diversion programs 
to reduce solid waste materials in landfill areas in accordance with State 
requirements. 
Policy PS-P7.2
Recycling.  Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State 
requirements and require provisions for onsite recycling in new development. 
Policy PS-P7.3
Composting. Maintain the curbside composting program and expand composting of 
organics in accordance with state requirements and as directed by the City’s Climate 
Action Plan. 
ACTIONS
Action PS-A7.1
Waste Reduction. Reduce waste sent to landfills by San Mateo’s residents, 
businesses, and visitors as required by state law and San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapters 7.32-7.35 by mandating recycling and compost programs, setting 
aggressive waste reduction goals for all development, and implementing 
appropriate solid waste rates to recover cost of services provided.  Supportive 
actions for waste reduction are detailed in the Climate Action Plan. 
Action PS-A7.2
Waste Collection Safety. Encourage waste, recycling, and other collection trucks to 
avoid blocking intersections and causing traffic delays. 
376 of 386

--- page 377 ---
Page N-1
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
9.
NOISE ELEMENT
These suggested revisions to the draft goals, policies and actions are based on input provided by 
staff, community members, the General Plan Subcommittee and the Planning Commission, and 
are shown in track changes. For policies and actions with suggested revisions, they are listed 
below the original draft language that was published in July for comparison purposes. 
GOALS AND POLICIES
GOAL N-1
Protect “noise sensitive” land uses from excessive noise levels. 
POLICIES
Policy N-P1.1
Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and 
interior noise insulation for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 that 
have an exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1 
[NOTE: Figure N-1 will be updated at a later phase of the project.]. The 
maximum interior noise level shall not exceed 45 dBA (Ldn) in any habitable 
rooms, as established by the California Building Code. 
Policy N-P1.2
Exterior Noise Level Standard. Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, 
play areas, and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the 
enjoyment of residents) that have an exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or 
above, as shown on Figure N-1 [NOTE: Figure N-1 will be updated at a later 
phase of the project.]. Require an acoustical analysis that uses peak hour Leq for 
new parks and play areas. Require a feasibility analysis of noise reduction 
measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate necessary mitigation 
measures into residential project design to minimize common open space noise 
levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 65 dBA (Ldn) for residential 
uses and should not exceed 65 dBA (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park 
uses. 
Policy N-P1.3
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community when new land uses that would 
result in excessive noise levels are being considered and inform community members about how they 
can engage in the process. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage broad 
representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved communities. 
GOAL N-2
Minimize unnecessary, annoying, or unhealthful noise. 
377 of 386

--- page 378 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T
Page N-2
POLICIES
Policy N-P2.1
Noise Regulation. Regulate noise in San Mateo to prohibit noise that is 
annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal sensitivity. 
Policy N-P2.2
Minimize Noise Impacts.  Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables 
N-1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize short-term noise impacts. Prohibit long-term operational 
noise increases at the sensitive receptor property line, or new uses which 
generate noise levels at the sensitive receptor property line, as follows: 

Greater than 1.5 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of 65 
dBA Ldn and higher;

Greater than 3 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of 60 - 64 
Ldn; and

Greater than 5 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of less 
than 60 dBA Ldn. 
Policy N-P2.3
Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise 
sensitive” in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise 
generated by new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures 
into development design to minimize short-term and long-term noise impacts. 
Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dBA (Ldn) or above at the 
property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
Policy N-P2.4
Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting 
from traffic increases, as shown on Figure N-2 [NOTE: Figure N-2 will be updated 
at a later phase of the project]. Promote the installation of noise barriers or 
other methods to reduce traffic noise along highways and high volume 
roadways where “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 are adversely 
impacted by excessive noise levels [60 dBA (Ldn) or above].  Require adequate 
noise mitigation to be incorporated into the widening of SR 92 and US 101. 
Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting 
from traffic increases, as shown on Figure N-2 [NOTE: Figure N-2 will be updated 
at a later phase of the project]. Promote the reduction of traffic speeds and the 
installation of noise barriers or other methods to reduce traffic noise along 
highways and high volume roadways where “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in 
Table N-1 are adversely impacted by excessive noise levels [60 dBA (Ldn) or 
above].  Require adequate noise mitigation to be incorporated into the widening 
of SR 92 and US 101. 
Policy N-P2.5
Railroad Noise. Support the installation of noise barriers and other mitigations 
along the railroad corridor where “noise-sensitive” land uses are adversely 
impacted by excessive noise levels [60 dBA (Ldn) or greater].  
378 of 386

--- page 379 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T
Page N-3
Policy N-P2.6
Railroad Vibration. Require that new residential projects (or other sensitive 
uses) located within 200 feet of existing railroad lines conduct a groundborne 
vibration and noise evaluation consistent with Federal Transit Administration-
approved methodologies. 
Policy N-P2.7
Construction Noise and Vibration. Continue to prioritize construction noise 
limits and vibration monitoring around sensitive receptors, including through 
limiting construction hours and individual and cumulative noise from 
construction equipment. 
Construction Noise and Vibration. Continue to prioritize Require construction 
noise limits and vibration monitoring around sensitive receptors, including 
through limiting construction hours and individual and cumulative noise from 
construction equipment. 
Policy N-P2.8
Construction Noise and Vibration Monitoring. For larger development projects 
that demand intensive construction periods and/or use equipment that could 
create vibration impacts, require a vibration impact analysis, as well as 
monitoring and reporting of noise levels throughout construction, consistent 
with industry standards. The monitoring plan should include information on the 
monitoring locations, durations and regularity, the instrumentation to be used 
and appropriate noise control measures to ensure compliance with the noise 
ordinance. 
ACTIONS 
Action N-A2.2
Railroad Noise Study. Implement projects necessary to achieve Quiet Zones in 
the City such as elimination of at-grade rail crossings or other mitigation 
measures to decrease horn and other operational noise levels prior to 
substantial expansion of the rail service. 
Action N-A2.3
Railroad Noise Barriers. Work with the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
to promote and encourage adequate noise mitigations and barriers to be 
incorporated into any rail service expansion or track realignment. 
379 of 386

--- page 380 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T
Page N-4
Table N-1:
Noise Sensitive Land Use Compatibility Guidelines 
Day-Night Average Noise Level, Ldn (dBA) 
Land Use Category 
0-59 
60-65 
65-70 
71-80 
over 81 
Residential – Low Density * 
 
 
 
 
Residential – Medium and High Density 
* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hotels, Motels, and other Lodging 
 
 
 
 
Schools, Libraries, Hospitals, Long-Term 
Care Facilities 
 
 
 
 
Multifamily Common Open Space for 
the Use and Enjoyment of Residents  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally Acceptable. Specified land use is satisfactory based on the assumption that any 
buildings involved are of normal, conventional construction, without any special noise 
insulation requirements. 
 
Conditionally Acceptable. New construction or development should be undertaken only 
after a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements is made and needed insulation 
features have been included in the design. 
 
Normally Unacceptable. New construction or development should not be undertaken. 
* See residential land use designations in the Land Use Element of this General Plan. 
Table N-2:
Noise Guidelines for Outdoor Activities 
Average Noise Level, Leq (dBA) 
Land Use Category 
0-59 
60-65 
65-70 
71-80 
over 81 
Parks, Playgrounds, Privately Owned 
Publicly Accessible Open Space 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally Acceptable. Specified land use is satisfactory based on the assumption that any buildings 
involved are of normal, conventional construction, without any special noise insulation requirements. 
 
Normally Unacceptable. New construction or development should not be undertaken. 
380 of 386

--- page 381 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T
Page N-5
381 of 386

--- page 382 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-3134
File ID: 22-6698
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 3, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Public Employee Pension Reform Act 180 Day Waiting Period Waiver Request – Community Development Department
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution finding the nature of employment for retired annuitant Kelli Casale is necessary to fill a critically 
needed position before 180 days have passed pursuant to California Government Code section 7522.56
BACKGROUND:
Assembly Bill 340, the Public Employee Pension Reform Act of 2013, also known as PEPRA, was signed into law on 
September 12, 2012 and went into effect on January 1, 2013. PEPRA created Government Code Section 7522.56, which 
requires public agency retirees to wait 180 days after retirement before returning to work for a public agency. This waiting 
period may be waived if the City Council determines the nature of employment is necessary to fill a critically needed 
position before 180 days have passed. Therefore, this request is before Council for approval now. 
Ms. Casale retired as Senior Code Enforcement Officer with the City of Mountain View on July 20, 2022, capping off a 24-
year career in municipal code enforcement. Ms. Casale is a Certified Code Enforcement Officer. Her experience includes 
many years of leading the Code Enforcement Division, and all other administrative tasks and responsibilities associated 
with operating a successful Code Enforcement program. Her work entailed the management and resolution of a variety of 
code cases, including uninhabitable buildings and other life-safety cases, and also included evaluating and assigning cases 
based on their level of priority.
In March 2020, the Code Enforcement Division began to channel its resources toward COVID-19 response efforts, critical 
life-safety cases, and tenant relocations. During the same period, the Division lost three experienced Code Enforcement 
Officers. The shift in priorities resulting from the COVID-19 response and operational adjustments associated with being 
understaffed resulted in a backlog of about 200 non-life-safety or COVID-related cases. Moreover, the Code Enforcement 
Manager retired at the end of September, creating an additional critical vacancy with only a few weeks of notice. 
While the Department recently onboarded a new Code Enforcement Officer, are in the process of onboarding a second 
Officer, and have enlisted Planning and Building Inspection staff to assist the Division in keeping up with high-priority 
cases, there remains a backlog of unopened cases and slowed response time for new cases. The new Officers are the most 
qualified candidates in the applicant pool and meet all job specifications. However, neither of the new Officers has directly 
related Code Enforcement experience, which points to the dearth of experienced Code Enforcement professionals looking 
for work in the area. 
To ensure the continued successful and timely response to the community’s critical life-safety and public nuisance 
complaints and to allow Planning and Inspection staff to return to their regular work, management level support is needed 
382 of 386

--- page 383 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for the Division to operate effectively and respond to the high-volume of complaints it receives. 
The services needed from Ms. Casale could be accomplished in about 20 hours per week, as she would provide in-office 
services while our Officers are in the field or assisting phone-in and in-person customers. Based on the foregoing, staff 
recommends a finding that the nature of Ms. Casale’s appointment is necessary to fill a critically needed position before 
180 days have passed. This position would be terminated when the vacancy created by the retiring Code Enforcement 
Manager is filled, which is expected to occur in about 3-4 months. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Similar to the other staff backfill services, the funding source for the cost of Kelli Casale’s services will be from staff 
vacancy savings, so no additional budget appropriations are needed. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council Action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Director Community Development
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7210
383 of 386

--- page 384 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2022
FINDING THE NATURE OF EMPLOYMENT FOR RETIRED ANNUITANT KELLI CASALE IS NECESSARY TO FILL A 
CRITICALLY NEEDED POSITION BEFORE 180 DAYS HAVE PASSED PURSUANT TO 
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 7522.56
WHEREAS, the State Legislature adopted AB 340 in order to implement comprehensive pension reform 
through the enactment of the California Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA); and 
WHEREAS, PEPRA applies to all public employers that participate in the California Public Employees 
Retirement System (PERS) on or after January 1, 2013; and
WHEREAS, California Government Code section 7522.56, as enacted in PEPRA, requires newly retired 
persons to wait for at least 180 days before returning to work for an employer in the same retirement system in 
which they receive a retirement allowance; and
WHEREAS, an exception to the 180-day waiting period may be made if the City Council certifies that the 
nature of the employment and the appointment is necessary to fill a critically needed position and the 180 days 
has not yet passed; and
WHEREAS, Kelli Casale (Ms. Casale) retired after 24-year career in Municipal Code Enforcement from 
the City of Mountain View, effective July 20, 2022; and
WHEREAS, Government Code section 7522.56 provides that this exception to the 180-day wait period 
shall not apply if the retiree accepts any retirement-related incentive; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Mateo and Ms. Casale certify that Ms. Casale has not and 
will not receive a “golden handshake” or any other retirement-related incentive; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Casale is a certified Code Enforcement Officer and has many years of experience in 
Code Enforcement case management for municipal governments; and
WHEREAS, the Community Development Department has a substantial staffing deficiency and case 
backlog, and it is essential for the continued successful and timely response to critical life-safety complaints for 
Ms. Casale to provide her Code case expertise to support the operation of the Code Enforcement Division.  
WHEREAS, the maximum hourly rate for the Code Enforcement Manager per diem position is $81.33 
per hour, and the minimum hourly rate is $68.19; and
WHEREAS the hourly rate paid to Ms. Casale will be $81.33; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Casale has not and will not receive any other benefit, incentive, compensation in lieu of 
benefit or other form of compensation in addition to this hourly pay rate.
384 of 386

--- page 385 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This City Council action is not subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The City Council certifies that the nature of Ms. Casale’s employment is necessary to provide 
critically needed duties, and the 180-day waiting period, pursuant to Government Code section 
7522.56 has not yet passed.
3.
Ms. Casale shall be employed as a per diem Code Enforcement Manager at $81.33 per hour, the 
current hourly step 5 rate for that position, and no other compensation or benefits shall be 
provided.
4.
Ms. Casale shall work on a temporary basis, supporting the Community Development Department as 
it fills vacancies and onboards new staff while maintaining response times, and shall not work more 
than 960 hours in total. 
5.
Ms. Casale is authorized to be hired as a retired annuitant pursuant to this Resolution from October 
17, 2022 through April 17, 2023.
6.
This Resolution was adopted at a properly noticed public meeting and was not placed on the 
consent calendar, in compliance with Government Code section 7522.56(f)(1). 
7.
This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
385 of 386

--- page 386 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2022)
SETTING COMPENSATION FOR CITY ATTORNEY
WHEREAS, on July 7, 2022, the City Council considered the performance of the City Attorney; and
WHEREAS, the performance of the City Attorney meets or exceeds all expectations; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo City Charter section 4.02 provides that salaries shall be fixed by resolution;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
The monthly salary for the City Attorney is established to be $__________ which reflects a 
___% increase.
2.
The effective date for the monthly salary of the City Attorney, established in item 1 above, shall be 
upon the beginning of the next pay period following the adoption of this Resolution.
386 of 386