Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras News Local News Region/State News Politics Richmond Trump’s America Go ‘Hoos UVA Football UVA Basketball UVA Baseball UVA Olympic Sports Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Business Wire Subscribe Advertise Our Team Contribute to AFP Subscribe Advertise News Main menu News Local News Region/State News Politics Main menu Politics Richmond Trump’s America Go ‘Hoos Main menu Go 'Hoos UVA Football UVA Basketball UVA Baseball UVA Olympic Sports Sports Main menu Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Business Wire Contact Us Our Team Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Contribute Contribute Search Home Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras Local Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras Chris Graham Published date: September 14, 2026 | 5:40 pm Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Photo: © Aaron/Adobe Stock The MAGAs who run Augusta County , through the Board of Supervisors , are about to break with Donald Trump , who got 70-plus percent of the vote in the county in each of his three runs for president, over Flock cameras . Trump reiterated, when pressed by a reporter on Air Force One on Sunday, that he likes the automated license plate readers , “because of law enforcement.” The sentiment from members of the Augusta County Board of Supervisors who brought up the Sheriff’s Office contract with Flock for a mere two cameras in the Fishersville area at a recent BOS meeting is more on the side of privacy protections for the citizenry. From the archives Coverage of issues raised with Flock cameras: click here . Scott Seaton , who represents the Wayne District , where those two cameras are located, said last week that he wants the Board to review the contract, noting the low hit rate – he said the two cameras had recorded, in the 30 days prior to last week’s Board of Supervisors meeting, eight hits for cars that may have ties to some sort of crime from more than 65,000 surveillance opportunities, “and that gives it a ratio of pretty much 999,999 innocent people for each person, for each car, that’s on the hit list,” Seaton said. It’s not quite 999,999 to one, but his point is made. Steve Grepps , who represents the Beverley Manor District , piled on, saying he has spoken to “quite a few people, either via phone or out in public, and they’re not in support of the Flock cameras, and neither am I, and I just wanted to make that point clear.” We can expect the BOS to discuss this at their next staff briefing, which is on the schedule for Monday, Sept. 21 . How much Trump’s support of Flock cameras “because of law enforcement” will factor into the review will be worth taking a look at. Multimedia Share this page Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Tags Flock cameras Chris Graham Chris Graham Chris Graham is the founder and editor of Augusta Free Press . A 1994 alum of the University of Virginia , Chris is the author and co-author of seven books, including Poverty of Imagination , a memoir published in 2019. For his commentaries on news, sports and politics, go to his YouTube page , TikTok , BlueSky , or subscribe to his Street Knowledge podcast . Email Chris at chris@augustafreepress.com . View all posts by Chris Graham Local Waynesboro: Mimosa Farm owner asks for delay in vote on permit application Chris Graham September 15, 2026 Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Waynesboro: Tidal Wave Auto Spa fundraiser to benefit The Life Works Project Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Community Foundation event will provide fundraising tips for nonprofit leaders Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Behind the scenes as Waynesboro City Council weighs the fate of Mimosa Farm Chris Graham September 13, 2026 Waynesboro Schools explore virtual learning for Westwood Hills students: Conflict? Chris Graham September 13, 2026 What Staunton Schools would be able to do with a 1 percent sales tax hike Chris Graham September 12, 2026 Emergency Family Relief Fund set up to assist Westwood Hills families Chris Graham September 11, 2026 ICYMI 1 Waynesboro Police release new information on Westwood Hills shooting 2 UVA Football: We’re officially on Clemson Reaching Out to Our Coach Watch 3 Charlottesville filmmaker, living with ALS, makes death the focus of final doc 4 John McGuire bought NVIDIA stock before NVIDIA made a $12.9 billion AI deal 5 The deck was stacked against Christopher Lee Franklin, who died by suicide in a Virginia jail Latest News Local Waynesboro: Mimosa Farm owner asks for delay in vote on permit application Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Region/State Greene County: Waynesboro man dies in motorcycle crash on Route 33 Chris Graham September 14, 2026 A Waynesboro man was killed in a single-vehicle motorcycle crash on Route 33 in Greene County on Sunday morning. Football What do we know about ACC Football after two weeks? Still not all that much Chris Graham September 14, 2026 The best non-conference win, through two weeks, for an ACC Football program, using the ESPN Football Power Index as the guide? UVA Football UVA Football: ACC announces kickoff time for Sept. 26 home game Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Football ACC Football: League names Players of the Week for Week 2 games Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Richmond Dominion, NextEra, feeling the heat on merger, roll out new benefits pledge Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Local Waynesboro: Tidal Wave Auto Spa fundraiser to benefit The Life Works Project Chris Graham September 14, 2026 Contact AFP Advertise Contribute to AFP Newsletter Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Copyright © 2026 Augusta Free Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. We ask the important questions. We don’t take press releases or official statements as the final word. Digging in to get the whole story takes time and resources. Contribute We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok Scroll Up