Augusta County took its Flock cameras down: What about its Axon ALPRs? News Local Region Virginia Trump’s America Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Government, Politics, Media Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Subscribe Advertise Our Team Support AFP Subscribe Advertise News Main menu News Local Region Virginia Trump’s America Sports Main menu Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Government, Politics, Media Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Contact Us Our Team Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Support Support Search Home Augusta County took its Flock cameras down: What about its Axon ALPRs? Local Augusta County took its Flock cameras down: What about its Axon ALPRs? Chris Graham Published date: October 1, 2026 | 10:55 am Updated: October 1, 2026 | 11:31 am Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Photo: © MargJohnsonVA For all the delight in Augusta County over the Sheriff’s Office taking down the two Flock cameras that had been up and active in Fishersville , what about the 58 Axon automatic license plate readers that are currently in use in ACSO vehicles ? This isn’t something that’s necessarily hidden – the Sheriff’s Office maintains a publicly viewable database with updated usage metrics . OK, so, it’s not like they go crazy trying to let us know that this database is out there; it was brought to my attention by an eagle-eyed AFP reader. I keep saying we need to come up with a Correspondent of the Day award for all of our eagle-eyed readers out there who share this stuff with us. One problem there being: most of these eagle-eyed readers want to remain anonymous, which, I get. Back to the Axon ALPRs: the Sheriff’s Office tells us on the page with the usage data what it’s up to with the license plate readers. Augusta County Sheriff’s Office-VA uses Axon Automatic License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. We utilize real-time alerting in patrol vehicles to arrest wanted criminals, recover stolen vehicles and locate missing persons that are on various hotlists. We also retain vehicle and plate images for a period of time to perform searches when investigating reported crimes. All of this data is secure, not sold to 3rd parties, and only used for law enforcement purposes by authorized personnel. This page shows our ALPR policies and usage statistics so that you may understand how this technology is used to help keep your community safer. Records are retained for 21 days, per the webpage (captured by us at 10:36 a.m. ET, Oct. 1, 2026 ). The data for the past 21 days: Plate reads retained : 421,678 Hotlist hits retained : 47 Hit rate : 0.01 percent That’s an average of around 20,000 plate reads per day from the Axon ALPRs, which would be on pace for more than 7 million plate reads for a calendar year. This tracks ahead of what the two Flock cameras in Fishersville were pulling in, based on the numbers that Sheriff Donald Smith presented to the Augusta County Board of Supervisors last month. I’m not sure the public removal of the Flocks last week was anything more than a distraction aimed at getting us to feel like we’d accomplished something in the name of protecting our right to privacy. ICYMI Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras Augusta County sheriff reverses course on Flock cameras, takes them down Featured Video Share this page Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Chris Graham Chris Graham Chris Graham is the founder and editor of Augusta Free Press . A 1994 alum of the University of Virginia , Chris is the author and co-author of seven books, including Poverty of Imagination , a memoir published in 2019. For his commentaries on news, sports and politics, go to his YouTube page , TikTok , BlueSky , or subscribe to his Street Knowledge podcast . Email Chris at chris@augustafreepress.com . Support AFP by signing up for our newsletter and/or powering our work with a one-time or monthly contribution . View all posts by Chris Graham Local Augusta County: Staunton man arrested on rape, forcible sodomy charges Chris Graham October 2, 2026 DEQ quietly approved the Northrop Grumman Waynesboro pollution permit Chris Graham October 2, 2026 Waynesboro Police still not talking about Westwood Hills Elementary School shooting Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Augusta County took its Flock cameras down: What about its Axon ALPRs? Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Kristine Neff | The community needs to apologize for the Augusta County sheriff Kristine Neff October 1, 2026 Two dead in Manassas shooting; suspect died by self-inflicted wound in Augusta County Chris Graham September 30, 2026 Media Beat: Why is a News Leader reporter still picking a dumb fight with us? Chris Graham September 30, 2026 Waynesboro: Freeman ‘frustrated’ that people speaking critically of School Board Chris Graham September 29, 2026 ICYMI 1 Did Waynesboro Schools really hire the superintendent’s former romantic partner? 2 UVA Football: Why do you play games that you know will end up 59-3? 3 Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras 4 Waynesboro: Mimosa Farm owner asks for delay in vote on permit application 5 UVA Football: Tony Elliott, egged on by local media, falls on his sword for Michael Vick, again Latest News Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football doesn’t have to pretend to be mad at the dog abuser anymore Chris Graham October 2, 2026 Local Augusta County: Staunton man arrested on rape, forcible sodomy charges Chris Graham October 2, 2026 A Staunton man is in custody on several charges, including rape and forcible sodomy. Local DEQ quietly approved the Northrop Grumman Waynesboro pollution permit Chris Graham October 2, 2026 Northrop Grumman got its state operating permit, and pretty much everything it wanted, in terms of no oversight for its Waynesboro spray-coating operation, from Virginia DEQ on Wednesday. Region Tim Miller at The Bulwark thinks Beth Macy can pull the upset in the Sixth Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Virginia Spanberger releases Energy Plan: Big Energy no longer writing its own rules Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Trump's America Bills in Congress aim to increase resources for campus sexual assault prevention, response Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Football Game Preview: Pitt, Virginia Tech meet in class of ACC Football unbeatens Chris Graham October 1, 2026 Contact AFP Support AFP Advertise Newsletter Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Copyright © 2026 Augusta Free Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. We ask the important questions. We don’t take press releases or official statements as the final word. Digging in to get the whole story takes time and resources. Support We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok Scroll Up