Citizens group wants to get local law enforcement to quit using mobile ALPRs News Local Region Virginia Trump’s America Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Government, Politics Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Subscribe Advertise Our Team Support AFP Subscribe Advertise News Main menu News Local Region Virginia Trump’s America Sports Main menu Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Government, Politics Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Contact Us Our Team Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Support Support Search Home Citizens group wants to get local law enforcement to quit using mobile ALPRs Local Citizens group wants to get local law enforcement to quit using mobile ALPRs Chris Graham Published date: October 6, 2026 | 11:54 am Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Photo: © Oleksandr/Adobe Stock A citizens group is trying to build momentum toward getting the Augusta County Sheriff’s Office to remove the Axon automatic license plate readers currently in use in ACSO vehicles . The updated data available from the Sheriff’s Office had the mobile ALPRs retaining information on 416,885 license plates over the past 21 days , an average of 19,852 per day – which would work out to more than 7.2 million for a calendar year , at that pace. The readers led to 47 “hotlist hits” – the terminology for a plate matching a record on a law enforcement database for vehicles of interest. That’s a success rate of 0.01 percent . The citizens group, LiveFreeVA , is trying to get people interested in the topic of mass surveillance to attend the next scheduled Augusta County Board of Supervisors meeting, on Wednesday, Oct. 14 . LiveFreeVA also wants to begin pressuring the City of Staunton on the issue, and is trying to organize a turnout for the next scheduled Staunton City Council meeting, which is this week, on Thursday . The group has organized two Facebook events with details: Staunton City Council meeting : click here Augusta County Board of Supervisors meeting : click here ICYMI Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras Augusta County sheriff reverses course on Flock cameras, takes them down Featured Video Share this page Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Chris Graham Chris Graham Chris Graham is the founder and editor of Augusta Free Press . A 1994 alum of the University of Virginia , Chris is the author and co-author of seven books, including Poverty of Imagination , a memoir published in 2019. For his commentaries on news, sports and politics, go to his YouTube page , TikTok , BlueSky , or subscribe to his Street Knowledge podcast . Email Chris at chris@augustafreepress.com . Support AFP by signing up for our newsletter and/or powering our work with a one-time or monthly contribution . View all posts by Chris Graham Local Citizens group wants to get local law enforcement to quit using mobile ALPRs Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Staunton: Interstate 81 lane closures overnight Tuesday into Wednesday Chris Graham October 5, 2026 Staunton: Construction under way on south end Route 11 improvements Chris Graham October 5, 2026 Letter to the Editor: Suggestions for changes at the top in Waynesboro Schools Letters October 5, 2026 Media Beat: Our local news desert is one reporter more deserted now Chris Graham October 5, 2026 Staunton: Residents raise issues with proposed Morris Mill Road rezoning Chris Graham October 5, 2026 Staunton: Chance to learn more about proposed Greenville Avenue road project Chris Graham October 4, 2026 Staunton: Grant will help pay for field trip to National Museum of the Marine Corps Chris Graham October 4, 2026 ICYMI 1 UVA Football doesn’t have to pretend to be mad at the dog abuser anymore 2 Augusta County: The finance director is gone. What happened there? 3 Tim Miller at The Bulwark thinks Beth Macy can pull the upset in the Sixth 4 UVA Football: This Virginia team has a whole ‘nuther dimension of quit to it 5 Waynesboro: Freeman ‘frustrated’ that people speaking critically of School Board Latest News Local Staunton: Event on Saturday to commemorate restoration of Shea House Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football: Tony Elliott not considering QB change ‘at this point’ Chris Graham October 6, 2026 UVA Football coach Tony Elliott is hitching his wagon to the guy he told at the beginning of the summer was going to be his starting QB. Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football: We should all be suspended like Elliott suspended Solomon Beebe Chris Graham October 6, 2026 UVA Football coach Tony Elliott just let slip an uncomfortable truth about the “suspension” of backup tailback Solomon Beebe. Region Former Albemarle County Schools employee indicted on nine new sexual battery charges Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Trump's America Trump thinks a $90 payment to Medicare recipients will buy their vote Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football: How much did we pay for those two guarantee games? Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Region Harrisonburg: City moving forward with plans to replace Fire Station #4 Chris Graham October 6, 2026 Contact AFP Support AFP Advertise Newsletter Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Copyright © 2026 Augusta Free Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. We ask the important questions. We don’t take press releases or official statements as the final word. Digging in to get the whole story takes time and resources. Support We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok Scroll Up