Staunton: Flock Safety cameras no longer accessible to police News Local Virginia U.S. & World Politics Sports Baseball Basketball Football Etc. Go ‘Hoos! UVA Basketball UVA Football UVA Baseball UVA News Business Wire Advertise Our Team News Main menu News Local News Virginia News U.S. & World Politics Sports Main menu Sports Basketball Baseball Football Etc. Go ‘Hoos Main menu Go 'Hoos UVA Basketball UVA Football UVA Baseball UVA News Business Wire Our Team Contact Us Support AFP Advertise Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Donate Donate Search Home Staunton Police Chief: Flock Safety cameras no longer accessible to officers Local Staunton Police Chief: Flock Safety cameras no longer accessible to officers Crystal Graham Published date: January 8, 2026 | 5:36 pm Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail (© Aaron – stock.adobe.com) Officers with the Staunton Police Department no longer have access to Flock Safety cameras to assist in investigations. The city announced plans approximately one month ago to cancel its contract with the automated license-plate reader, or ALPR, technology company. While citizens were vocal in their opposition to the use of cameras, Police Chief Jim Williams said the decision was due to a disagreement in philosophy with the company’s CEO. An email sent from Flock Safety CEO Garrett Langley to the Staunton PD said in part that Flock and law enforcement agencies they partner with were “under coordinated attack.” Chief Williams told the CEO in an email reply that he believed the actions of citizens expressing their opposition to the cameras was not an attack but “democracy in action.” ICYMI Staunton to cancel Flock Safety camera contract, citing issues with ideology of CEO Aaron Barmer: Flock camera removal is victory for all people in Staunton Staunton resident Deborah Kushner was among those who were pressuring Staunton to remove the cameras. She believes that citizens played a major role in the decision: speaking at City Council meetings, sending emails, putting up yards signs and gathering signatures for petitions. “I appreciate Chief Jim Williams’ correspondence with Flock that recognizes the importance of public scrutiny and pushback that is ‘democracy in action,” Kushner told AFP . “It’s beholden on each and all of us to rise to meet the increasing need for involvement and action. “The city was remiss in not including residents from the beginning of their discussions about surveillance cameras.” “Mass surveillance can be masked to look friendly with glossy marketing that promises to eradicate crime, but Flock’s early ties with Palantir and its new partnering with Ring and Amazon Sidewalk betrays its significant dark side that leaks data to ICE , and allegiance to the Washington regime that demonizes ever-increasing numbers of our neighbors,” Kushner said. No date has been set for removal of the cameras, according to Williams. However the contract was cancelled in December, and the PD was recently notified that the agreement was terminated. The contract was originally set to run through the fall of 2026. “Our officers no longer have access to the ALPRs,” Williams said. “At this time, we are not actively exploring other stationary ALPR systems.” Related stories Staunton | Are police, ICE using Flock license plate cameras to spy on you? Flock cameras, while under fire, helped find the Brown University killer Norfolk | Lawsuit questions legality of 176 Flock Safety cameras in city Support AFP Share this page Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Tags Police/Fire/Courts Staunton Crystal Graham Crystal Graham A 1999 graduate of Virginia Tech , Crystal Graham has worked for 25 years as a reporter and editor for several Virginia publications, written a book, and garnered more than a dozen Virginia Press Association awards for writing and graphic design. She was the co-host of "Viewpoints," a weekly TV news show, and co-host of "Virginia Tonight," a nightly TV news show, both broadcast on PBS . Her work on "Virginia Tonight" earned her a national Telly award for excellence in television. You can reach her at crystal@augustafreepress.com . View all posts by Crystal Graham Local Staunton: Applications to participate in Happy Birthday America now open Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Staunton: Interstate 81 closure Saturday into Sunday for road work Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Augusta County: Park and Ride closing next week for expansion work Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Waynesboro: DEQ to set public hearing on Northrup Grumman permit request Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Charlottesville: Second man convicted in 2023 shooting gets 10 years Chris Graham May 27, 2026 CCCA employee pleads guilty in sex case: Is there more going on there? Chris Graham May 27, 2026 Staunton: Arcadia Project set to launch second season of summer concert series Chris Graham May 26, 2026 Staunton: Historic marker to honor Queen Miller, who took in hundreds of Black orphans Chris Graham May 26, 2026 ICYMI 1 ‘How welcoming’: White supremacist group marches down Virginia Beach Oceanfront 2 Gov. Spanberger taking brave stand on behalf of data center developers 3 House passes bipartisan affordable housing bill: Something we can all agree on 4 Important lesson to learn from the Kyle Busch death: Listen to your body 5 What’s missing from the Virginia Manufactured Housing Board: People with lived experience Latest News Local Nelson County: Road work scheduled for the week of June 1-5 Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Local Staunton: Applications to participate in Happy Birthday America now open Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Happy Birthday America has opened applications for volunteers, parade participants, pageant contestants, food concessions, non-food vendors and the Staunton Firecracker 5K. Local Staunton: Interstate 81 closure Saturday into Sunday for road work Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Southbound Interstate 81 is set to close in the Staunton area from 6 p.m. Saturday, May 30, through 8 a.m. Sunday, May 31. Local Augusta County: Park and Ride closing next week for expansion work Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Local Waynesboro: DEQ to set public hearing on Northrup Grumman permit request Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Politics , Virginia Spanberger dumps Virginia Tech Board of Visitors president in political shakeup Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Baseball UVA Baseball: ‘Hoos starting over this weekend at 0-0, with a new lease on life? Chris Graham May 28, 2026 Contact AFP Support AFP Advertise Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Copyright © 2026 Augusta Free Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. Join the thousands of readers like you who support independent journalism. Our content is free to read, but we do have bills to pay. Pitch in and help us keep the community informed. Donate We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok Scroll Up