Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras News Local Region/State Politics Virginia Politics Trump’s America Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Subscribe Advertise Our Team Support AFP Subscribe Advertise News Main menu News Local Region/State Politics Main menu Politics Virginia Politics Trump’s America Sports Main menu Sports Football Basketball Baseball Pro Wrestling Go ‘Hoos Business Wire Contact Us Our Team Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Support Support Search Home Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras Local Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras Chris Graham Published date: September 21, 2026 | 6:11 pm Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Augusta County Sheriff Donald Smith Literally everybody in a position of political authority not named Donald Trump is trying to distance law enforcement from using Flock cameras . And then there’s our elected Augusta County sheriff , goes by the name Donald Smith , who is going out of his way to prostrate himself on the altar of Flock. Smith not only went before the Augusta County Board of Supervisors on Monday to make the case for Flock, he actually included in his presentation what he later called in a release a “video presented to the Board of Supervisors during today’s work session for more details about the Flock system” that comes straight from the official YouTube page of, you guessed it, Flock ! From the archives Coverage of the controversy over the use of Flock cameras: click here . Dear, gawd. Scott Seaton , who represents the Wayne District on the Board Supervisors, where the two Flock cameras in operation in Augusta County are located, had noted, in a BOS meeting earlier this month, that the cameras had a low hit rate – Seaton said the two cameras had recorded, in the 30 days prior to the Sept. 9 Board of Supervisors meeting , eight hits for cars that may have ties to some sort of crime from more than 65,000 surveillance opportunities . The success rate there: .01 percent . It was Seaton’s observations that led to Monday’s demonstration from the sheriff, which had Smith telling the BOS that the cameras “have already proven valuable in several investigations, including helping identify a suspect vehicle in the homicide of Andrew W. Mitts Jr ., locating stolen vehicles, assisting in missing‑person cases, and supporting an investigation into a recent tire‑dumping incident.” That’s the anecdotal supportive evidence. The data that the sheriff included in a release to local media outlets on total vehicle reads and agency searches generated by those reads proved Seaton’s point – the dataset reported 182 searches from the 3,495,807 vehicle reads for the 2026 year-to-date , which would be a hit rate of .005 percent . For reference: a 1 percent hit rate would be 34,958 hits . A . 1 percent hit rate would be 3,496 hits . Even a .01 percent hit rate would be 350 hits . We’re talking half of .01 percent here. For this miniscule return on investment, the other 99.995 percent of us who drive by the two cameras are subject to state-sponsored video surveillance, for no good reason. “Many citizens have also shared concerns about privacy and possible misuse. I understand and respect those concerns,” Smith said, in a statement in a release from his office. “The Flock system is secured to meet federal and military standards. Access to the system is strictly controlled, monitored, and logged. This system is then audited by the Sheriff’s Office and the Virginia State Police . Additionally, Virginia law makes it clear that misuse or improper access is prohibited. Under Virginia Code §2.2‑5517(D) , there are penalties for abusing the system.” The penalties only come into play if somebody finds out the system is being abused; and who do you report abuse to, the Sheriff’s Office? Sure, they’re going to make sure they’re not breaking the law. “Augusta County is a large community with limited law enforcement resources, and technology like Flock cameras can help investigators work cases more efficiently,” Smith said, failing to acknowledge the massive inefficiency of the cameras, though he did go on to concede, shockingly, that “it is important that we carefully consider privacy and make sure any technology we use is handled responsibly.” “I want our citizens to know that I am listening,” Smith said. “I will continue to review how the system is used, weigh its benefits and limitations, and thoughtfully consider community concerns before making decisions about Flock cameras’ future usage in Augusta County. “I ask for your patience as we work through these issues,” the sheriff went on. “My goal is to keep Augusta County safe while maintaining the trust and confidence of the people we serve. Thank you for continuing to share your thoughts, questions, and concerns. I am committed to protecting our community while respecting the rights, privacy and freedoms of everyone.” No, he’s not. Featured Video Share this page Share Facebook Bluesky X Linkedin Telegram E-mail Tags Flock cameras Chris Graham Chris Graham Chris Graham is the founder and editor of Augusta Free Press . A 1994 alum of the University of Virginia , Chris is the author and co-author of seven books, including Poverty of Imagination , a memoir published in 2019. For his commentaries on news, sports and politics, go to his YouTube page , TikTok , BlueSky , or subscribe to his Street Knowledge podcast . Email Chris at chris@augustafreepress.com . View all posts by Chris Graham Local Augusta County sheriff defends .005 percent success rate of Flock cameras Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Debra Freeman to offer perspectives on homelessness at Lunch & Learn event Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Waynesboro Public Library art exhibit highlights issues with domestic abuse Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Overnight closure on Interstate 81 in Staunton area tonight, into wee hours Sunday Chris Graham September 19, 2026 William Perry Elementary School student found with BB gun in bookbag Chris Graham September 18, 2026 Harrisonburg teen charged with making threat to Westwood Hills Elementary School Chris Graham September 18, 2026 Another construction fraud case on the local court docket: Who can you trust? Chris Graham September 20, 2026 Augusta County man dies from injuries in nighttime motorcycle accident Chris Graham September 18, 2026 ICYMI 1 Did Waynesboro Schools really hire the superintendent’s former romantic partner? 2 UVA Football: Why do you play games that you know will end up 59-3? 3 Augusta County supervisors want to revisit the future of our Flock cameras 4 Waynesboro: Mimosa Farm owner asks for delay in vote on permit application 5 UVA Football: Tony Elliott, egged on by local media, falls on his sword for Michael Vick, again Latest News Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football: In depth first look at this weekend’s opponent, Delaware Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Football , Go 'Hoos UVA Football: How much money did we get for that beatdown in Charlotte? Chris Graham September 21, 2026 The official attendance for the UVA-West Virginia game in Charlotte on Saturday night was 39,377, which looks high, based on what the TV cameras seemed to reveal. Region/State Danville Police officer arrested, placed on leave, in connection with shooting Chris Graham September 21, 2026 An off-duty Danville Police officer was arrested on Monday in connection with a shooting on South Main Street in Danville reported on Sunday. Football ACC Football: Players of the Week for Week 3, from the select media panel Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Local Debra Freeman to offer perspectives on homelessness at Lunch & Learn event Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Trump's America FAA rolls out AI air traffic control in DC: NoVa congressman fights back Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Region/State Charlottesville community group raising issues with proposed Dairy Market expansion Chris Graham September 21, 2026 Contact AFP Support AFP Advertise Newsletter Project Mental Health Privacy Policy Copyright © 2026 Augusta Free Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. We ask the important questions. We don’t take press releases or official statements as the final word. Digging in to get the whole story takes time and resources. Support We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok Scroll Up