source: packet.pdf
sha256: fe2f3cf669de383b170dd156f703b6b43fe3e362dccfad3daa421e984bf15b97
pages: 575
ocr_pages: 72
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
April 3, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: April 3, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 851 1357 3189      Passcode: 798036
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of March 20, 2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
2.
City Council 2023 Regular Meeting Calendar Update – Adoption
Adopt the updated City Council regular meeting schedule to cancel the regular City Council meeting scheduled
for October 2, 2023.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
1 of 575

--- page 2 ---
3.
4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Grade Crossings Projects – Construction Contract
Approve a construction contract with Redgwick Construction Company for the 4th and 5th Avenue Railroad
Crossing Section 130 Improvements Projects in the amount of $637,848; establish a contingency reserve in the
amount of $64,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the construction contract in substantially
the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the amount of the
contingency reserve.
CEQA: This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
4.
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services – Contract
Award a contract to Monterey Mechanical Co. for wastewater treatment plant on-call rehabilitation and
replacement services in an amount not to exceed $300,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute
the contract in substantially the form presented, issue project-specific task orders under the contract, and
execute no-cost time extension amendments to the contract if budget remains at the end of the original or
extended terms.
CEQA: This contract is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
former of existing use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
5.
US-101 Express Lanes – License Agreement
Approve a license agreement with San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority for US-101 Express
Lane Project for the construction, maintenance, and operation of tolling equipment within the public right-of-
way; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This license agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
6.
Underground Flow Equalization System Temporary Construction Access – Amendment
Approve an amendment to the agreement with the County of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of
Property Rights in Support of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project in the amount of
$328,760 in order to complete construction of the project at the San Mateo County Event Center; and authorize
the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: The work addressed by this agenda report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This
project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components
of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No.
201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June
6, 2016.
7.
Police Dispatcher Lateral Hiring Recruitment Incentive Program – Authorization
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the provision of a police dispatcher lateral hiring recruitment incentive program
to include a $15,000 recruitment incentive for up to five (5) highly qualified and experienced lateral dispatchers,
in a cumulative amount not to exceed $75,000; 40 hours of vacation time upon completion of training; and a
2 of 575

--- page 3 ---
$3,000 incentive for per diem dispatchers who work a minimum of 500 hours in two years.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
8.
Winter Storms – Designation of Authority for Expense Reimbursement for Public Assistance Cost Recovery
Adopt a Resolution to designate the City Manager, Finance Director, and Assistant City Manager as agents of the
City of San Mateo for the purposes of obtaining federal and/or state financial assistance for expenses incurred
during the winter storm events.
CEQA: This designation of agents is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
9.
365 2nd Avenue – Lease Amendment
Approve the 3rd amendment to the lease between the City and Waynee May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung, members
of Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC, DBA Beard Papa’s, for the City owned property at 365 2nd Avenue to assign the lease
to Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong, authorize an increased security deposit amount of $1,949.56, and
authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This lease amendment is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
10.
Police Department - Job Specification Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer
Trainee, Police Officer, Police Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain to reflect the changes in California
state law and elevated standards for the San Mateo Police Department.
CEQA: These job specification revisions are exempt from CEQA review because it can be seen with certainty that
there is no possibility that this activity may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15061(b)(3).)
11.
Cannon Design Group for On-Call Design Review Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Cannon Design Group for architectural design review and other related services in an
amount not to exceed $500,000, and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the agreement
in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
12.
California Automated Permit Processing (CalAPP) Program – Grant Acceptance
Adopt a Resolution to accept a grant of $80,000 from the California Energy Commission Grant Program for the
implementation of expedited review and automated permit processing for eligible solar energy system permits;
and authorize the City Manager to execute all required documents in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Acceptance of the grant and implementation of the CalAPP program is not a project subject to CEQA,
because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes
3 of 575

--- page 4 ---
in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
13.
Purchase First Time Homebuyer Unit – Supplemental Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to approve an appropriation of up to $368,400 of restricted fund balance from the City
Housing Fund for the purchase, closing costs, minor home repairs and a subordinate loan for a First Time
Homebuyer unit located at 211 S. Fremont Street, #406 with a net-zero impact to the General Fund and authorize
the City Manager to execute all documents required to effectuate the transaction.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
14.
Fiscal Year 2022-23 Community Development Block Grant – Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $244,692.30 of restricted fund balance from the Community Development
Block Grant Fund to the fiscal year 2022-23 Community Development Block Grant operating expenditures for a
total budget of $502,076.30.
CEQA: This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
15.
Leaf Blower Regulations
Receive a report and presentation on leaf blower regulations and provide feedback and guidance on potential
leaf blower policy approaches.
CEQA: This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
16.
General Plan Update – Review Council Direction on Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y
Provide direction on the base densities and height limits that should be incorporated into the General Plan
Update’s Land Use Element, and provide direction on how Measure Y should be incorporated into the General
Plan Update.
CEQA: This study session, which is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that this
activity will not cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code 21065).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 of 575

--- page 5 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 575

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-7368
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of March 20, 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2023-03-20 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2023-03-20 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
6 of 575

--- page 7 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
March 20, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m.
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Loraine and Newsom
Council Member Rich Hedges teleconferenced from: 2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session to 
consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: One case
The City Council reconvened into open session at 5:41 p.m.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Leaf Blower Regulations
Due to technology issues in Council Chambers the City Council were unable to take up discussion on Leaf Blower 
Regulations, this item was continued to the next City Council meeting on April 3, 2023. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:51 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
7 of 575

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
March 20, 2023
City Hall Conference Room C 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Loraine and Newsom
Council Member Rich Hedges teleconferenced from: 2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
CEREMONIAL
1.
Women’s History Month – Proclamation
2.
Gloria Brown – Proclamation Woman of the Year – California State Assembly
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 3 through 17, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Council Member Newsom 
recused himself from Item 16 due to his residence being within 500’ of the project. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Diaz Nash, Seconded: Loraine
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of March 6, 2023.
4.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles - Amendment
Approve the amended Council Appointments list for 2023 with new appointments.
5.
Termination of Proclamation of a Local Emergency
Adopt a Resolution terminating the declaration of a local emergency.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 24 (2023)
6.
San Mateo Building Decarbonization Strategy – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $115,600 of committed fund balance from the Advance Planning 
Fund to the Sustainability Program within the City Manager’s Office for the development of a building 
decarbonization strategy; approve an agreement with Rincon Consultants, Inc. for the development of a 
building decarbonization strategy in the amount of $115,600; and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 25 (2023)
8 of 575

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 2
7.
Downtown Electric Vehicle Chargers – Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of $28,000 from unassigned fund balance from the 
General Fund to the Capital Improvement Project for the installation of electric vehicle chargers at the 
2nd and El Camino Garage.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 26 (2023)
8.
Housing Element Update Consulting Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services for Housing 
Element Update Services to extend the term of the agreement from March 30, 2023 to December 31, 
2023, with no change to the agreement total, and authorize the Community Development Director to 
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
9.
General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency – 2022 Annual Progress Reports
Accept the Annual Progress Reports for General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency, 
and direct the Community Development Director to file the reports with the State of California. 
10.
Library Department – Classification and Position Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve: the elimination of one (1) vacant Librarian I Per Diem and one (1) vacant 
Literacy Specialist Per Diem; the addition of one (1) Librarian I/II merit Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) in the 
Children's/Literacy Division; the elimination of three (3) vacant Library Assistant I Per Diem positions; 
and the addition of one (1) Library Assistant I/II merit FTE in the Circulation/Technical Services Division.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 27 (2023)
11.
San Mateo Public Library Foundation Operating Lease – Amendment
Approve an amendment to the property lease and operating agreement with the San Mateo Public 
Library Foundation to extend the lease for an additional year commencing on April 1, 2023 through 
March 31, 2024; and authorize the City Librarian to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
12.
Axon Air Unmanned Aerial Systems Program – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the master services and purchasing agreement with Axon Enterprise, Inc., 
to provide an unmanned aerial systems program for a five-year term in the amount of $110,575.95, for 
a new cumulative agreement total of $1,676,003.63; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented.
13.
Police Department Roof Improvements – Budget Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $150,000 of unassigned fund balance from the General Fund to the 
Police Department Roof Improvements project; approve an agreement with McGinnis Chen Associates, 
Inc. for professional roof design services in an amount not to exceed $92,500 with a contingency of 
$13,875; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and issue amendments within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 28 (2023)
14.
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 for professional services with Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide as-
needed construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the 
9 of 575

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 3
agreement amount by $400,000 for a revised total of $1,900,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task 
orders under the agreement.
15.
Purchase of Replacement Digester Sludge Transfer Pumps – Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 to the contract with Shape Inc. for the purchase of replacement 
digester sludge transfer pumps in an amount not to exceed $8,992.16 for a total contract amount of 
$105,717.16; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract change order in 
substantially the form presented.
16.
School Zone Speed Limit Phase 1 – Agreement
Approve an agreement with JJ Construction and Design Inc. for the School Zone Speed Limit Phase 1 
project in the amount of $164,975; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $16,500; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the amount of the contingency amount.
17.
Martin Luther King Community Center Small Kitchen Remodel – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to 
Newton Construction & Management, Inc. to remodel the small kitchen at the Martin Luther King 
Community Center in the amount of $149,127.11; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of 
$25,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 29 (2023)
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
PUBLIC HEARING
18.
Fiscal Year 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Amendment for Planning Support Fee
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager, provided a presentation on the needed amendments for Planning 
support fees for Building Permits. Council members asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there 
were no speakers. Discussion ensued and the Council expressed agreement with the staff 
recommendation.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve amendments to the Planning Support Fee for Building 
Permits. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Loraine, Seconded: Hedges
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 30 (2023)
OLD BUSINESS
19.
City Council Priority List – Draft Review
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II, provided a presentation on the proposed work plan and resource 
requirements for the draft City Council fiscal year 2023-24 priority list.
10 of 575

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 4
Public Comment – Owen Day expressed support for adding two youth advisory seats on the Park and Recreation 
Commission and encouraged youth advisory seats be added to the Library Board, Community Relations 
Commission, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and Planning Commission. 
20.
Pedestrian Mall Design – Contract Amendment
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, provided a presentation on the background and evolution of the 
Pedestrian Mall on ‘B’ street noting the increase of retractable bollards significantly impacts project cost and other 
safety concerns and considerations. She noted some local business opposition to the Pedestrian Mall between 1st 
and 2nd Avenue. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – In person (2): Lisa Kioa suggested using concrete planters in the middle of street; and Kevin 
Simpson stated the B Street corridor is perfect for a pedestrian mall and is interested in building the momentum 
for downtown dining.  Remote (5): Sean Lascon stated support of the pedestrian mall downtown and moving 
festivals elsewhere; Max Mautner supports more pedestrian areas; David Hunt supports events being held 
elsewhere; Daniel Schorr expressed downtown needs to be more aesthetically pleasing to attract businesses to the 
area, and more landscaping and parklets are needed. Arielle Angel stated support for the pedestrian mall as an 
equitable approach. 
Council discussion ensued and a recommendation to working with affected businesses in a more structured way 
and bring back for further discussion on location of Pedestrian Mall. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $130,766 from the unassigned 
fund balance of the General Fund to the Pedestrian Mall Design project to cover the cost of the first and second 
amendments to the agreement with Community Design + Architecture and the contingency reserve; approve the 
second amendment to the agreement with Community Design + Architecture to increase the contract amount to a 
total not to exceed $262,251 for additional design work and engineering support services; establish a contingency 
reserve of $14,000; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented 
and approve amendments within the contingency amount. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Loraine, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 31 (2023)
Council recessed from 8:54 p.m. to 9:04 p.m.
21.
Stormwater Funding - Overview
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager, Engineering Division, provided a presentation on the project 
purpose, an overview of the stormwater system, results of the funding analysis and a funding survey. Consultants 
Jerry Bradshaw and Chris Coulter, SCI Consulting Group, and staff responded to Council’s questions. 
Public Comment – Remote (3): Rich Kranz expressed charging only the people who live on the lagoon a fee would 
be wrong and recommended best places for dredging; Daniel Schorr stated the cost to maintain the lagoon should 
be shared by everyone and supports Council going forward; Rick Sakuda suggested charging a higher rate.
Mayor Lee clarified that Council is deciding on a city-wide poll for all property owners commercial and residential 
and the rate would be based on size of your parcel and paying for city-wide infrastructure would be by everyone.
Council asked additional questions and deliberated further and consensus was that Council were supportive of 
staff recommendations to move forward with a public survey to inform the final Fee Report and Public Notice for a 
11 of 575

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 5
potential Stormwater Fee following Prop 218 requirements; Council inquired whether we could justifiably survey 
with a higher rate than originally proposed and staff will follow up with our consultants and accommodate if 
feasible; Council supported a robust educational campaign and community and stakeholder involvement.
NEW BUSINESS
22.
Complete Streets Plan - Introduction and Community Engagement
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, and Carrie Modi, AICP, Senior Associate, Fehr & Peers, 
provided a presentation on the purpose and goals of the Complete Streets plan, and outlined project opportunities 
and challenges as well as the engagement plan and timeline. Council asked questions, especially regarding North 
Central bike lanes and community outreach.
Public Comment – In person (8): Lisa Kiowa shared concerns regarding parking availability in North Central; Joanne 
Bennett stated concerns for parking availability in North Central; Olivette Ferris asked for greater community 
engagement with bicycle lanes in the North Central area; Luella Parker stated concern for senior members of the 
community ability to attend church; Jesus Sanchez expressed concern for having only one parking space for four 
vehicles; Kevin Simpson noted neighbors are feeling pitted against each other for parking; Shirley Morton 
expressed there was a lack of communication on the loss of parking; Trina Pierce shared that North Central was 
disproportionately impacted by loss of parking; and Gloria Brown asked that staff listen to the community in North 
Central.  Remote (9): Mike Caggiano recommended one-way streets in North Central to enhance safety; Megan 
Strain supports safer streets to walk and cycle; Sean Lacson suggested incentives for community engagement with 
Complete Streets; Jessica Manzi hightlighted the importance of the educational aspects of the complete streets 
plan; Bry Myers asked to prioritize designing the streets and sidewalks for all users with emphasis on active 
transport; Rick Sakuda shared that trust needs to be rebuilt with the North Central community; David Hunt shared 
the value of community information events; and Mike Swire urged the Council to move forward with traffic 
calming and pedestrian focused projects.
Council recessed from 11:50 p.m. to 11:55 p.m.
Council discussion ensued and comments shared noting a need to rebuild trust and invest in the North Central 
community, the impact of the bike lanes in an already dire parking situation, and a desire to move expeditiously 
with a redesign of the bake lane and a more comprehensive circulation study. Questions were asked regarding 
safety and one-way streets, strategies for addressing immediate concerns, the need for a focus on listening, and 
robust community outreach is needed. Specific issues and spot requests for solutions were addressed. Council 
committed learning from and improving the process.
 
Council consensus was to move forward with new plan of Complete Streets, listen to feedback, and make 
adjustments as needed.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Mayor Lee 
would like to re-agendize the general plan land use item from the March 6th meeting (Old Business- Item 11) to clarify the 
final takeaways as there is clarification needed. Mayor Lee received a majority approval of the Council to reagendize the 
General Plan Update to review Council direction on land use heights and densities and measure Y. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 12:34 p.m. 
12 of 575

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/20/2023
Page 6
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                                           
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
13 of 575

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-7369
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council 2023 Regular Meeting Calendar Update – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the updated City Council regular meeting schedule to cancel the regular City Council meeting scheduled for October 
2, 2023. 
BACKGROUND:
On February 6, 2023, the City Council approved an invitation from Mayor Shigeki Osanai of Toyonaka City to travel to 
Japan to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Sister City relationship between Toyonaka and San Mateo. The City sought 
Council Member interest in attending the celebration and received confirmation of interest from Mayor Lee, Deputy 
Mayor Diaz Nash, and Council Member Loraine. The travel is scheduled between October 1, 2023, and October 9, 2023. 
The currently adopted City Council regular meeting calendar includes a meeting on October 2, 2023 when three council 
members will be out of the country. If City Council adopts this updated regular meeting schedule, the meeting scheduled 
for October 2, 2023 will be cancelled (see Attachment 1). Staff will return to City Council if it is determined that an 
additional special meeting is required due to this cancelation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Updated Calendar 2023 Tracked Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
14 of 575

--- page 15 ---
2023 City Council Calendar of Regular Meetings
All meetings start at 7:00 p.m. and at this time are being held in a hybrid in-person/remote manner. 
This is subject to change at some point in the future.
Day
Date
Notes
Tuesday
January 3, 2023
(moved because of New Year’s Day)
Tuesday
January 17, 2023
(moved because of Martin Luther King Jr. Day)
Monday
February 6, 2023
Tuesday
February 21, 2023
(moved because of Presidents’ Day holiday)
Monday
March 6, 2023
Monday
March 20, 2023
Monday
April 3, 2023
Monday
April 17, 2023
Monday
May 1, 2023
Monday
May 15, 2023
Monday
June 5, 2023
Tuesday
June 20, 2023
(moved because of Juneteenth holiday)
Monday
July 3, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
Monday
July 17, 2023
Monday 
August 7, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
Monday
August 21, 2023
Tuesday
September 5, 2023
(moved because of Labor Day holiday)
Monday
September 18, 2023
Monday
October 2, 2023
Cancelled – due to three Council Member visit 
to Toyonaka 
Monday
October 16, 2023
Monday
November 6, 2023
Monday
November 20, 2023
Monday
December 4, 2023
Monday
December 18, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
15 of 575

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 23-7279
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Grade Crossings Projects – Construction Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a construction contract with Redgwick Construction Company for the 4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Crossing 
Section 130 Improvements Projects in the amount of $637,848; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $64,000; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the construction contract in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the amount of the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
Federal Rail Administration (FRA) guidelines require all trains to sound their horns through at-grade crossings, construction 
zones, and whenever a trespasser is spotted by the conductor in the railroad right of way. This requirement to blow a horn 
in the above situations must be followed at all times of the day. In the City, there are at-grade crossings at Villa Terrace, E. 
Bellevue Ave, 1st Ave, 2nd Ave, 3rd Ave, 4th Ave, 5th Ave, and 9th Ave.  Trains are required to sound their horns at 
designated distances up to a quarter mile in advance of each at-grade crossing depending on operating speed.
Cities can make improvements to establish a “Quiet Zone” to restrict the use of train horn noise along train corridors. In 
order to establish a “Quiet Zone”, the City must implement FRA approved safety measures at a number of at-grade 
crossings within the proposed segment.  Approved safety measures include upgraded four-quadrant gates (as opposed to 
the standard two-quadrant gates currently used in the City), concrete medians, street closures, and one-way street 
conversions. It’s important to note that even within an established “Quiet Zone,” trains are still required to sound horns 
when approaching occupied station platforms, construction zones, or whenever a trespasser is spotted by the conductor in 
the railroad right of way.
With the completion of the 25th Avenue Grade Separation project, improvements are needed at 4th Ave., 5th Ave., E. 
Bellevue Ave., and Villa Terrace to establish a “Quiet Zone.” The City has been coordinating with Caltrain on improvements 
at 4th and 5th Avenues. Caltrain will upgrade the existing two-quadrant gates to four-quadrant gates with vehicle 
presence detection. The City's scope consists of pavement resurfacing, installation of American with Disabilities Act 
compliant ramps, pedestrian level lights along 5th Ave., and the installation of new bicycle lanes on 5th Ave. These 
improvements are to be installed by Caltrain and the City in their respective right of ways (ROWs) and are designed and 
administered separately. 
The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) recommended the two safety improvements on 4th and 5th Avenues and 
is providing 100% funding through the Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing Program (RHGCP) – Section 130 Program. The 
improvements are considered supplemental safety measures that make a significant contribution toward achieving a 
“Quiet Zone” as the new gates will reduce the risk of collisions and thus lower the need to sound horns. Staff is currently 
evaluating additional measures at E. Bellevue Ave. and Villa Terrace for qualification and intend to return Council with an 
16 of 575

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
update later this year. Caltrain will be advertising the improvements within their ROW at 4th and 5th Avenues later this 
year.
Staff completed the design of the improvements on 4th and 5th Avenues within the City’s ROW and advertised the project 
on January 10, 2023. A total of six (6) bids were received and opened on February 16, 2023. The bids received are listed 
below in order of increasing bid amount. 
 
Contractor
Total Bid for 4th Ave 
Total Bid for 5th Ave
Grand Total Bid Amount
Redgwick Construction Company
$204,925.00
$432,923.00
$637,848.00
Golden Bay Construction, Inc.
$185,127.00
$495,800.00
$680,927.00
R&S Construction Management, Inc.
$177,625.00
$521,072.50
$698,697.50
McKim Corporation
$254,970.55
$473,055.00
$728,025.55
Kerex Engineering
$296,110.00
$599,099.00
$895,209.00
Granite Rock Company
$213,785.00
$4,992,935.00*
$5,206,720.00*
     * Entry error on the bid item pricing form caused dramatic increase in bid price. 
 
The engineer’s estimate is $780,000. Staff reviewed the bids and determined that Redgwick Construction Company is the 
lowest responsive and responsible bidder, and recommends it be awarded the construction contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Under the executed funding agreements, the City will incur and initially pay its own costs for design of the improvements 
within City right-of-way, which will be reimbursed with federal funds administered by Caltrans. City costs are funded by 
the Railroad Crossing Improvements (46m001) project. There are sufficient funds to support construction costs prior to 
reimbursement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Construction Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
Jana Cadiz, Assistant Engineer
jcadiz@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7575
17 of 575

--- page 18 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 7/21
AGREEMENT WITH REDGWICK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
4TH AND 5TH AVENUE RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING 
SECTION 130 IMPROVEMENTS PROJECTS
CITY PROJECT NO. 46m001-46000-1000-46350/46m001-46000-1100-46350
FEDERAL AID PROJECT NO. STPL 7500 (281)/STPL 7500 (280)
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and REDGWICK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, a corporation, with offices at 21 Hegenberger 
Court, Oakland, CA 94621 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ______________.  
RECITALS:
(a)
City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b)
A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c)
After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the 
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
4TH AND 5TH AVENUE SECTION 130 IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 46m001-46000-1000-46350/46m001-46000-1100-46350
FEDERAL AID PROJECT NO. STPL 7500 (281)/7500 (280)
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of six hundred thirty seven 
thousand eight hundred forty eight dollars ($637,848) in full payment for the work set forth 
above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addenda issued to the Contract Book, the 
State of California Standard Specifications 2018 Edition, the State of California Department of 
18 of 575

--- page 19 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 7/21
Transportation Standard Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and 
Material Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract documents”).
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
19 of 575

--- page 20 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 7/21
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10. Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, defend, and 
indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this 
Agreement, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused 
by passive negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents; 
provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or expense 
arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City or (b) the active negligence of 
the City; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract, 
workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer as defined by the 
Insurance Code. Contractor will defend City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs 
(that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number 
of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Agreement shall have 
to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce 
the provisions of the contract documents. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and 
that any differences will be resolved amicably.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
20 of 575

--- page 21 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 7/21
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
21 of 575

--- page 22 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 7/21
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
22 of 575

--- page 23 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and REDGWICK 
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day 
and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Date
Travis Miller
Its Authorized Agent
Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Bob Rahebi
Secretary
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
23 of 575

--- page 24 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 7/21
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Surety Bonds as described below.
5. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
24 of 575

--- page 25 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 7/21
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
25 of 575

--- page 26 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 7/21
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
26 of 575

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 23-7280
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to Monterey Mechanical Co. for wastewater treatment plant on-call rehabilitation and replacement 
services in an amount not to exceed $300,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in 
substantially the form presented, issue project-specific task orders under the contract, and execute no-cost time extension 
amendments to the contract if budget remains at the end of the original or extended terms.
BACKGROUND:
The City operates and maintains a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) that receives 10 million gallons per day (MGD) on 
an average day and up to 60 MGD during wet weather events. The facility operates 24/7 and is managed by operations 
and maintenance staff. Responsible for addressing preventive maintenance and repairs, maintenance staff ensure that the 
equipment is in working order for the WWTP to operate as designed and meet permit requirements. However, external 
contracting services are required on occasion for specialty repairs and minor projects that are beyond the existing skillset 
of maintenance staff, as well as for emergency situations, such as imminent equipment or process failures. WWTP staff 
determined it is critical to have an on-call contractor with the proper licenses, skills, and equipment to provide planned or 
emergency services on an as-needed basis in order to keep the WWTP operating 24/7. 
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this service. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals and Bidding Documents was issued to advertise the project on January 13, 2023. Three 
bids were received and opened on February 22, 2023. One of the bids was not filled out completely and it was determined 
to be non-responsive as a result. The bid results are included below:
Contractor
Bid Amount
Monterey Mechanical Co.
$4,811
JMB Construction
$9,270
Telstar Instruments
Non-Responsive ($1,267.25)
Note: Bid amount is based on the sum of hourly unit prices and mobilization fees for on-call services.
Staff recommends awarding the contract to Monterey Mechanical Co. for an amount not to exceed $300,000 over a two-
year term. The agreement includes the option for up to three (3), one-year extensions with additional budgets of up to 
$150,000 for each year, which would be brought back to City Council for approval if recommended by staff. For any as-
needed work, staff will negotiate a scope, fee, and schedule with the contractor and issue individual task orders. The 
hourly rates submitted in the contractor’s bid will be the basis for establishing the fees for each task order. 
27 of 575

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted for these services in the wastewater treatment plant maintenance program budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This contract is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of former of existing use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Daniel Patten, Project Manager II
dpatten@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7284
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
28 of 575

--- page 29 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 1 of 28 
SECTION 00 50 00 
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION 
This Contract is by and between: 
OWNER 
CONTRACTOR 
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403       
Monterey Mechanical Co. 
8275 San Leandro Street  
Oakland, California 94621 
 
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK 
1.01  
Work 
A. Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents. 
B. The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents.   
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services is generally 
described as follows and includes two type of work categories for the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant (WWTP) facilities: 
Planned Work includes Operations and Maintenance projects which are important to 
plant operations, however, are not critical from a timing perspective. Work may include, 
but not be limited to replacing a pump nearing the end of its useful life or installing new 
equipment. This work is on-call and on an as-needed basis, thus the City cannot 
guarantee that Work will equal the cost of the full contract fee. 
Emergency Work which needs to be completed as soon as possible to maintain safe 
operations of the plant, and/or protect WWTP staff and the public. Contractor shall be 
able to respond to the City or Resident Project Representative (RPR) within 8 hours of 
notice and mobilize within 24 hours. The Contractor’s workforce and equipment shall be 
at a reasonable proximity to the WWTP in order to respond to the service requests. 
In general, the scope of planned or emergency work may include, but not be limited to, 
the installation and/or repair of pipes, concrete walls, valves, slide/sluice gates, 
electrical systems, metal and concrete tanks, sumps, pumps, ducts, and typical 
wastewater equipment.   The work may also involve the removal of hazardous materials. 
The Site of the Work is generally located at 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, California. 
29 of 575

--- page 30 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 2 of 28 
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY 
2.01 Defined Terms 
A. Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with initial 
capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning indicated 
in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial capital 
letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and paragraphs, 
and the titles of other documents or forms. 
 
B. Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to assist 
Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or “RPR” 
includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.   
2.02 Terminology 
A. The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used in 
the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning. 
B. Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives: 
1. The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” “as 
directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents. The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents. 
C. Day: 
1. The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight. 
D. Defective: 
1. The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it: 
a. does not conform to the Contract Documents; or 
b. does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or 
c. has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion. 
E. Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide: 
30 of 575

--- page 31 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 3 of 28 
1. The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, shall 
mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or some 
other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition. 
2. The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, shall 
mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
3. The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
4. If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use. 
F. Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- known 
technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract Documents in 
accordance with such recognized meaning. 
2.03 Contract Documents Defined 
A.  If any of the items listed are not to be included as Contract Documents, remove such item from 
the list and renumber the remaining items as necessary. 
B. The Contract Documents consist of the following documents: 
1. This Contract. 
2. Performance bond. 
3. Payment bond. 
4. Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows): 
a. Exhibit A - Contractor’s Bid Form (Section 00 30 00) 
b. Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts. 
5. The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
a. Contract: 
b. Notice to Proceed. 
c. Task Orders. 
d. Work Change Directives. 
e. Change Orders. 
f. Field Orders. 
31 of 575

--- page 32 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 4 of 28 
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
3.01 Task Order Process 
A. When there is a need for the work to be performed, the City will request a proposal from the 
Contractor. The City may provide design documents for the Work, including but not limited 
to, design drawings, specifications and equipment information. These documents, along with 
the Task Order form and the contractor’s proposal shall be referred to as the Task Order. 
B. The City will then negotiate the price and level of effort for the Work. 
C. Once a price and level of effort have been negotiated, the City will then issue a Task Order form 
as provided in of Attachment A of the Contract Bid Book.  
3.02 Intent of Contract Documents and Task Orders 
A. It is the intent of Contract Documents to provide the general requirements to perform the 
work. It is the intent of the individual Task Orders to describe a functionally complete project. 
The Contract Documents and Task Orders do not indicate or describe all the Work required 
to complete an individual project. Additional details required for the correct installation of 
selected products are to be provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and 
RPR.  
B. During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
Task Order or relating to the acceptability of the Work under individual Task Orders to the 
RPR. RPR will be the initial interpreter of the requirements of Contract Documents and 
individual Task Orders, and judge of the acceptability of the Work thereunder. 
C. RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to an individual Task Order and the Contract Documents. 
D. Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants. 
3.03 Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies 
A. Reporting Discrepancies: 
1. Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each part 
of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Task Orders and Contract Documents, 
and check and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect 
to applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to 
Engineer any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has 
actual knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents and Task 
Orders. 
2. Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents and Task Orders: If, before or during the 
performance of the Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or 
discrepancy within the Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and 
(a) any applicable Law or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard 
specification, manual, reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, 
32 of 575

--- page 33 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 5 of 28 
then Contractor shall promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not 
proceed with the Work affected thereby until the conflict, error, ambiguity, or 
discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by Engineer, or by an 
amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued pursuant to Paragraph 
3.03 B3. 
3. Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, error, 
ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents and Task Orders unless Contractor 
had actual knowledge thereof. 
B. Resolving Discrepancies: 
1. Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the provisions 
of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, error, 
ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents and: 
a. The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, or 
the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or 
b. The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work 
(unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents would 
result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
2. When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail. 
3. In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract Documents 
as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, the 
Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence:  
a. Change Order. 
b. Addenda. 
c. Contract. 
d. Technical Specifications included in Task Orders. 
e. Drawings included in Task Orders. 
f. Owner Standard Specifications. 
g. Owner Standard Drawings.  
h. If the Contract is for use in a Job Order Contract, add the following.  
i. The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, or 
the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by reference as 
a Contract Document).  
j. The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work 
(unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents would result 
in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
33 of 575

--- page 34 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 6 of 28 
k. Notice to Bidder 
l. Instructions to Bidder 
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES 
4.01 Contract Times 
A. The Work will be completed within two (2) years after the Effective Date of the Contract. The 
City, at its discretion, may execute up to three (3), one-year extensions. 
B. Time of the Essence: Time limits for Milestones, if any, Substantial Completion, and completion 
and readiness for final payment as stated in each Task Order. 
4.02 Liquidated Damages 
A.  Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the Contract, 
and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work according to 
the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be difficult and 
costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable approximation 
of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated damages for delay 
(but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that expires after the 
Contract Time for substantial completion. 
4.03 Delays in Contractor’s Progress 
A. If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times. 
B. Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for delay, 
disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers. 
C. If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times. 
D. Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers. 
4.04 Progress Schedules 
A. Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR. 
B. The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule. 
34 of 575

--- page 35 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 7 of 28 
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE 
5.01 Payment 
   A. For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor’s Bid, incorporated herein by reference, shall 
not exceed $300,000 over the two-year term of the Contract. At the City’s discretion, 
three (3) one-year extension options may be executed with additional budgets of up to 
$150,000 for each year.   
1. Individual Task Orders shall not exceed $100,000. At the City’s discretion, multiple 
Task Orders may be issued in a single year. 
5.02 Unit Prices 
A. Costs in Task Order proposals shall be based on the Unit Prices in the Bid Form.  
B. Costs associated with any services and/or equipment not listed in the Bid Form shall be 
reviewed and negotiated between the Contractor and City prior to the City issuing the Task 
Order for the Work. 
C. The unit prices shall be fixed for the first two-year contract term. Unit rates for one-year 
extension options shall not be increased more than 3% per year in comparison to the original 
unit prices, or 3% more than the prevailing wage unit rate associated with the service and/or 
equipment at the start of each extension option year, whichever is higher. 
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE 
6.01 Bonds 
A. Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due. 
B. Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give written 
notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right to take 
over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five days after 
giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their intention 
to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take over the 
work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may 
deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore 
6.02 Insurance 
A. The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of three (3) years 
after completion of the Contract or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B. 
35 of 575

--- page 36 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 8 of 28 
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
7.01 Supervision and Superintendence 
A. Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction. 
B. Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances. 
C. Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site. 
D. Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday. 
7.02 Other Work at the Site 
A. In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or adjacent 
to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid damaging, 
delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, or any 
utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site 
B. Other construction contracts have been or will be awarded by Owner that are in close proximity 
to or border on the Work of this Contract are as follows:  
1. Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and 
Expansion Project. 
2. Immediate Action Projects, Package III. 
3. Annual Major Components Projects.  
7.03 Coordination with the Owner’s Operations 
A. The WWTP is required by law to provide proper treatment to the wastewater and comply with 
the NPDES permit at all times.  The Contractor’s work shall not interfere with plant operations 
and must not disrupt the plant process unless specifically authorized in writing by the City or 
RPR.  Any permit violation as a result of the Contractor’s work, such as an unauthorized 
disruption of plant process or unauthorized operation of plant equipment, shall be the 
responsibility of the Contractor. The Contractor shall at all times safely guard and protect the 
City’s property and adjacent property from damage or loss. 
B. Contractor shall be experienced in working around live lines. The Contractor shall obtain all 
necessary information and be familiar with the process, such as the line pressure, 
temperature, and characteristics of the process element within the pipe or duct, before 
performing work. The Contractor shall take proper precautions and furnish the appropriate 
equipment and parts to perform hot-tapping or cutting into lines without bypassing or 
stopping of the process flow. 
C. Operational functions or shutdown of the existing plant required to facilitate Contractor’s 
operation will be done by the Owner’s personnel only. Owner will assist Contractor in 
36 of 575

--- page 37 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 9 of 28 
dewatering process tanks, basins, conduits, and other work areas to be dewatered for 
shutdowns. Maintain clean, dry work area by pumping and properly disposing of fluid and 
other material that accumulates in work areas. 
D. Operation of Existing Systems and Equipment during the Work: 
1. Contractor shall not shut off or disconnect existing operating systems or equipment, 
unless accepted by RPR in writing. 
2. Operation of existing systems and equipment will be by Owner unless otherwise specified 
or indicated. 
3. Where necessary for the Work, Contractor shall seal or bulkhead Owner-operated gates 
and valves to prevent leakage that may affect the Work, Owner’s operations, or both 
with approval from the RPR. 
E. Provide temporary watertight plugs, bulkheads, and line stops as necessary and as required. 
After completing the Work, remove seals, plugs, bulkhead, and line stops to satisfaction of 
RPR 
F. The Owner may postpone, at no additional cost to the Owner, any and each Contractor request 
for work that would disrupt plant operations for up to 2 weeks due to operational 
constraints. Shutdowns during Planned Work projects shall be scheduled per the Method 
of Procedure Instructions and Forms, Contract Bid Book Attachment B. 
 
7.04 Services, Materials, and Equipment 
A. Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents. 
B. All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and shall 
be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and conditioned 
in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise may be 
provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.05 Subcontractors and Suppliers 
A. Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7.  
7.06 Quality Management 
A. Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents. 
7.07 Licenses, Fees and Permits 
A. Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others. 
37 of 575

--- page 38 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 10 of 28 
B. Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.08 Laws and Regulations; Taxes 
A. Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations. 
B. Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations. 
C. Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations. 
D. In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the sub-contract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties.  
E. Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.   
F. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.   
G. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working under this Contract.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the Contract to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced. 
H. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.   
38 of 575

--- page 39 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 11 of 28 
I. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.   
J. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.   
K. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.   
L. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.   
M. In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.   
N. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and subcontractors 
must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In accordance with Labor 
Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as required by regulation and 
this Contract will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department 
of Industrial Relations.   
7.09 Record Documents 
A. Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Task Orders, 
Addenda, Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work. 
7.10 Safety and Protection 
A. Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work. 
B. Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the necessary 
protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to: 
1. All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work; 
2. All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in storage 
on or off the Site; and 
3. Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction. 
39 of 575

--- page 40 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 12 of 28 
4. All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied 
by Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor). 
5. Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data 
sheets or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or 
exchanged between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or 
Regulations. 
6. In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at 
the Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, 
or loss. Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any 
significant changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been 
caused thereby or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in 
the Contract Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in 
response to such an emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be 
issued. 
7.10 Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals 
A. Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information. 
B. Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal. 
C. With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents. 
D. RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples. 
E. RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs. 
F. RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions. 
G. Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals. 
H. Shop drawings are not Contract Documents. 
7.11 Warranties and Guarantees 
A. Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
40 of 575

--- page 41 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 13 of 28 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee. 
7.12 Correction Period 
A. If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work. 
7.13 Indemnification 
A. To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless The City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of 
each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but 
not limited to all fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and 
all court or arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the 
performance of the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to 
claims, loss, liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the Owner. 
7.14 Emergencies 
A. In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor is obligated to act to prevent threatened damage, injury, 
or loss. Contractor shall give Engineer prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any 
significant changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been 
caused thereby or are required as a result thereof. If Engineer determines that a change in 
the Contract Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response 
to such an emergency, a Task Order, Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued. 
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
8.01 Owner’s Responsibilities 
A. Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all communications 
to Contractor through RPR. 
B. Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract. 
C. Owner shall provide Site and easements required for work as specified in individual Task Orders. 
D. If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination. 
E. The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes. 
F. The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible for, 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
41 of 575

--- page 42 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 14 of 28 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
G. While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed. 
H. Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor. 
I. In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract.  
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION 
9.01 RPR’s Status 
A. RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and the 
limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set forth in 
this Contract. 
B. Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of the 
Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise such 
authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority or 
responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them. 
C. RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work. 
D. RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with the 
Contract Documents. 
E. RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge the 
acceptability of the Work. 
F. RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for Contractor’s 
means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the safety 
precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK 
10.01 Authority to Change the Work 
A. Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time or 
from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work. 
42 of 575

--- page 43 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 15 of 28 
10.02 Change Orders 
A. Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering: 
1. Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive; 
2. Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or (c) 
resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if the 
change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, or 
otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and 
3. Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12. 
B. If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting the 
general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but not 
limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be Contractor’s 
responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect the effect of 
any such change. 
ARTICLE 11- DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS 
11.01 Differing Conditions Process 
A. If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so. 
B. After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly: 
1. Review the subsurface or physical condition in question; 
2. Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition; 
3. Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated herein; 
4. Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor; 
5. Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and 
6. Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations. 
43 of 575

--- page 44 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 16 of 28 
C. After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue a 
written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part. 
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
12.01 Claims Process 
A. The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and the 
RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto. 
B. The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. The 
two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and direct 
negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to the other 
party. 
C. If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied. 
D. If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process. 
12.02 Mediation 
A. Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator 
shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an contract, the parties shall 
each submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the 
California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by 
the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted 
to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with 
the mediator, shall last until contract is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless 
the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK 
13.01 Tests and Inspections 
A. Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access. 
B. Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections and 
tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests. 
44 of 575

--- page 45 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 17 of 28 
C. If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense. 
13.02 Defective Work 
A. Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective. 
B. RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work. 
C. Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be given 
to Contractor. 
D. The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work. 
E. When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or otherwise 
impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work. 
F. If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated. 
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR 
14.01 Progress Payments 
A. The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress. 
14.02 Applications for Payments: 
A. Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment. 
B. Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment. 
14.03 Retainage 
A. The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete. 
14.04 Review of Applications 
A. Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment. 
45 of 575

--- page 46 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 18 of 28 
B. RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement. 
C. The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work. 
14.05 Contractor’s Warranty of Title 
A. Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment furnished 
under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title defects, 
and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven days after 
the time of payment by Owner. 
14.06 Substantial Completion 
A. The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
B. RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor. 
C. If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
14.07 Final Inspection 
A. Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly make 
a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies. 
14.08 Final Payment 
A. Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents. 
B. The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by: 
1. All documentation called for in the Contract Documents; 
2. Consent of the surety to final payment; 
46 of 575

--- page 47 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 19 of 28 
3. Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment; 
4. A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and 
5. Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien rights 
arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work. 
C. The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment. 
14.09 Waiver of Claims 
A. The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor. 
B. The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted. 
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION 
15.01 Owner May Suspend Work 
A. At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension. 
15.02 Owner May Terminate for Cause 
A. Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or other 
failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a default by 
Contractor and justify termination for cause. 
B. If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to: 
1. Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and 
2. Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond. 
C. Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure. 
D. Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient. 
47 of 575

--- page 48 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 20 of 28 
E. In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related claims, 
costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay the 
difference to Owner. 
15.03 Owner May Terminate for Convenience 
A. Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items: 
1. Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work; 
2. Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and 
3. Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal. 
B. Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, or 
other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination. 
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS 
16.01 Contractor Representations 
A. Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract: 
1. Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data and 
reference items identified in the Contract Documents. 
2. Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
3. Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
4. Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on: 
a. The cost, progress, and performance of the Work; 
b. The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and 
c. Contractor’s safety precautions and programs. 
5. Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contract or agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
48 of 575

--- page 49 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 21 of 28 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract. 
6. Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents. 
7. Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor. 
8. The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding of 
all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work. 
9. Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS 
17.01 Cumulative Remedies 
A. The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply. 
17.02 Limitation of Damages 
A. Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, losses, or 
damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or anticipated 
project. 
17.03 No Waiver 
A. A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, nor 
shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract. 
17.04 Survival of Obligations 
A. All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor. 
17.05 Contractor’s Certifications 
A. Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. 
49 of 575

--- page 50 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 22 of 28 
17.06 Controlling Law and Venue 
A. This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
17.07 Notices 
A. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, postage 
prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as appears 
in the signature block at the end of this Contract. 
17.08 No Partnership or Agency 
A. Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.  
17.09 Severability 
A. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.  
17.10 Waiver 
A. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, or 
of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives.  
17.11 Warranty 
A. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents.  
50 of 575

--- page 51 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 23 of 28 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract. 
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract). 
OWNER: 
 CONTRACTOR: 
 
 
 
By: 
Azalea Mitch 
 By: 
Jim Troup  
Title: 
Director of Public Works 
 Title: 
President 
 
 
 
 
Address for giving notices: 
 Address for giving notices: 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
Monterey Mechanical Co.  
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
8275 San Leandro Street. 
 
 
Oakland, Ca 94621 
 
 License No.: 
388361 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
51 of 575

--- page 52 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONTRACTOR’S BID 
  
 
 
52 of 575

--- page 53 ---
NOTE TO BIDDER: Use typewriter or ink for completing this Bid Form.
SECTION 00 30 00
BID FORM (STIPULATED PRICE BASIS)
i. BID RECIPIENT
1.1. This Bid is submitted to:

Owner: City of San Mateo

Address: 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA

Project Identification: On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services

The undersigned Bidder proposes and agrees, if this Bid is accepted, to
enter into an Contract with Owner in the form included in the Bidding
Documents to perform all Work as specified or indicated in the
Bidding Documents for the prices and within the times indicated in this
Bid and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the
Bidding Documents.

1.2. The undersigned Bidder proposes and agrees, if this Bid is accepted, to enter into an

Contract with Owner in the form included in the Bidding Documents to perform all Work as
specified or indicated in the Bidding Documents for the prices and within the times indicated
in this Bid and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the Bidding Documents.

I BIDDER’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

2.1. Bidder accepts all of the terms and conditions of the Instructions to Bidders, including
without limitation those dealing with the disposition of Bid security. This Bid will remain
subject to acceptance for 90 days after the Bid opening, or for such longer period of time that
Bidder may agree to in writing upon request of Owner.

ai BIDDER’S REPRESENTATIONS
3.1. In submitting this Bid, Bidder represents that:

3.1.1. Bidder has examined and carefully studied the Bidding Documents, the
other related data identified in the Bidding Documents, and the following
Addenda, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged.

Addendum No. Addendum Date
#1 2/6/2023
#2 - 2/8/2023
CITY OF SAN MATEO BID FORM
January 12, 2023 PAGE |

53 of 575


--- page 54 ---
ON-CALL WWTP REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT SERVICES
#3 2/13/2023

(Bidder shall insert number of each Addendum received.)

3.1.2. Bidder has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as
to the general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and
performance of the Work.

3.1.3. Bidder is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations
that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

3.1.4. Bidder has considered the information known to Bidder; information
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site;
information and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Bidding
Documents; and the Site-related reports and drawings identified in the
Bidding Documents, with respect to the effect of such information,
observations, and documents on (1) the cost, progress, and performance of the
Work; (2) the means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of
construction to be employed by Bidder, including applying the specific means,
methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction expressly
required by the Bidding Documents; and (3) Bidder’s safety precautions and
programs.

3.1.5. Based on information and observations referred to in paragraph above,
Bidder does not consider that further examinations, investigations,
explorations, tests, studies, or data are necessary for the determination of this
Bid for performance of the Work at the price(s) Bid and within the times
required, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the Bidding
Documents.

3.1.6. Bidder is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by
Owner and others at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the
Bidding Documents.

3.1.7. Bidder has given Engineer written notice of conflicts, errors,
ambiguities, or discrepancies that Bidder has discovered in the Bidding
Documents, and the written resolution thereof by Engineer is acceptable to
Bidder.

3.1.8. The Bidding Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey
understanding of terms and conditions for the performance of the Work for
which this Bid is submitted.

3.1.9. Bidder states the following as its certification, in accordance with
Section 1861, California Labor Code: “I’m aware of the provisions of Section
3700 of the California Labor Code which require every employer to be
insured against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-

BID FORM CITY OF SAN MATEO
PAGE 2 JANUARY 12, 2023

54 of 575


--- page 55 ---
ATR

eae ¥ )
PUBLIC A

WORKS CLEANWATERPROGRAM
City of San Mateo PROTECTING THE BAY FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 330 W 20" Avenue
Azalea Mitch, P.E., Director San Mateo, CA 94403-1338

Tel: (650) 522-7300
Fax: (650) 522-7301
www.cityofsanmateo.org

February 6, 2023

ADDENDUM No. 1

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services ;

Effective immediately, the following changes to the Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call
Rehabilitation and Replacement Services Project posted on January 13, 2022, are noted below.

The following changes have been made:
SECTION 00 30 00 BID FORM (STIPULATED PRICE BASIS):

REPLACE THE ENTIRETY OF SUBSECTIONS 5.1 AND 5.2 WITH THE FOLLOWING,
WHICH ELIMINATES BID ITEM C-5 AND ADDS “D: PRICE SCHEDULE —
MOBILIZATION”:

5.1. The bid form includes categories that constitute the base scope of work in the contract. Bids
shall be evaluated as a sum of:

5.1.1. A: Price Schedule — Planned Work Labor, “Straight Work $ Per Hour” unit prices

5.1.2. B: Price Schedule — Emergency Work Labor, “Straight Work $ Per Hour” unit
prices

5.1.3. C: Price Schedule -Equipment, “Price per Hour” unit prices

5.1.4. D: Price Schedule — Mobilization, D-2 Emergency Work unit price

5.2. Bidder shall complete the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents for the
following price(s): (To be submitted with Proposal Form)

A: PRICE SCHEDULE — PLANNED WORK LABOR:

Straight Work §| Overtime — |Premium work $ per hour
BID ITEM TYPE OF SERVICE ; (holidays, weekends,
pet NGUE S$ per hour

after hours)

<1 Carpenter S 154 S 210 S 265
A2 | Certified Welder 5 196 6 264 6 331
A-3 Electrician sg 215 6 284 6 354 |

A-4 Foreman S 273 S 303 S 380

—

55 of 575


--- page 56 ---
A-5 Haz-Mat Worker S 134 S 165 S 195
A-6 Heavy Equipment Operator |S 150 S 202 S 256
A-7 Laborer S 108 S 143 S 176
A-8 Pipefitter § 196 6 264 S 331
A-9 Sheet Metal Worker 5 197 S 264 ig 329 |
Subtotal “A” - Straight Work s
S per Hour 1,623

B: PRICE SCHEDULE — EMERGENCY WORK LABOR:

Straight Work $ Overtime Premium work S$ per hour
BID ITEM TYPE OF SERVICE (holidays, weekends,
per hour
S per hour
__| | __after hours)
B-1 Carpenter S 154 S 210 S 265
r B-2 | Certified Welder S 196 S 264 S 331
B-3 Electrician IS 237 iS 337 5S 458
B-4 Foreman S 273 S 354 S 482
B-5 Haz-Mat Worker S 134 S 165 IS 195
B-6 Heavy Equipment Operator |§ 150 Ig 202 S 256
B-7 Laborer S 108 S 143 S 176
B-8 a) Pipefitter “|S 196
| B-9 Sheet Metal Worker S 197
Subtotal “B” - Straight Work S
Z S per Hour 1,645 |

C: PRICE SCHEDULE — EQUIPMENT:

BID TEM TYPE OF EQUIPMENT | PRICE PER Price % Day |Price Full Day (Eight
HOUR (Four Hours) Hours)

C-1 Backhoe S 53 S 214 S 428
C-2 Small Loader S 43 S 171 S ©6342

C-3 Boom Truck up to 10 ton : 75 S 299 Ss 599
C-4 Confined Space Equipment S$ 107 S 428 S 855
cs $
C-6 Dump Truck S

b.

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation
and Replacement Services Addendum No. |

Page 2 of 4

56 of 575


--- page 57 ---
Portable Pump, 2”-4” Suction and
ar, eee BHEROR S 32 S 128 $ 257
Discharge Piping
| C8 Welding Machine with torch assembly |S 24 S 86 S 174 |
C-9 Pick Up Truck up to 1 ton S 44 S$ 469 S 395
C-10 Utility Service Truck aS 53 S 9244 S 428
C-11 Air Compressor and Jack hammers S 43 S471 S 342
Subtotal “C” - Price per Hour S 543
L_
D: PRICE SCHEDULE — MOBILIZATION:
BID ITEM TYPE UNIT PRICE
D-1 Planned Work <5% of Total Task Order Fees
D-2 Emergency Work s 1,000
TOTAL OF SUBTOTALS “A”, “B”, “C” and “D-2” (ABOVE): $ 4,811

SECTION 00 50 00 AGREEMENT CONTRACT PRICE, ON PAGE 7 OF 28:

ADD THE FOLLOWING UNDERLINED LANGUAGE:

Unit Prices

Costs in Task Order proposals shall be based on the Unit Prices in the Bid Form.

For Planned Work, (as defined in Section 00 50 00 “The Work), the maximum allowable fee for
mobilization fee shall be less than 5% of the total fee for an individual Task Order.

For Emergency Work (as defined in Section 00 50 00 “The Work) the mobilization fee shall be based
on the D-2 bid item unit price listed in the Bid Form.

Costs associated with any services and/or equipment not listed in the Bid Form shall be reviewed
and negotiated between the Contractor and City prior to the City issuing the Task Order for
the Work.

The unit prices shall be fixed for the first two-year contract term. Unit rates for one-year extension
options shall not be increased more than 3% per year in comparison to the original unit
prices, or 3% more than the prevailing wage unit rate associated with the service and/or
equipment at the start of each extension option year, whichever is higher.

End

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation
and Replacement Services Addendum No. | Page 3 of 4

57 of 575


--- page 58 ---
ADDENDUM NO. 1

WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT ON-CALL REHABILITATION AND
REPLACEMENT SERVICES

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I have received Addendum No. | to the Contract Bid Book titled, “Wastewater Treatment Plant
On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services”. I have read and understand the information
stated in the addendum.

fs C2, 2O2B

Date espondent’s $1

James D. Troup, President & CEO
Respondent’s Name (Printed)

Monterey Mechanical Company

Name of Company

RETURN WITH BID DOCUMENTS

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation
and Replacement Services Addendum No. | Page 4 of 4

58 of 575


--- page 59 ---
Ey 7 7 ae v @

PUBLIC A

WORKS CLEANWATERPROGRAM

City of San Mateo PROTECTING THE BAY FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 330 W 20" Avenue

Azalea Mitch, P.E., Director San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
Tel: (650) 522-7300
Fax: (650) 522-7301

www.cityofsanmateo.org
February 8, 2023
ADDENDUM No. 2

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services

Effective immediately, the following changes to the Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call
Rehabilitation and Replacement Services Project posted on January 13, 2022, are noted below.

The following changes have been made:
SECTION 00 30 00 BID FORM (STIPULATED PRICE BASIS)

REVISE SUBSECTION 5.4 WITH THE FOLLOWING UNDERLINED LANGUAGE:

Task Orders that require the services and equipment identified above shall include the unit prices
proposed. Costs associated with any services and/or equipment (including apprentices as required by
the California Department of Industrial Relations) not listed above shall be reviewed and negotiated

between the Contractor and City prior to the City issuing the Task Order for the Work.

End

59 of 575


--- page 60 ---
ADDENDUM NO. 2

WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT ON-CALL REHABILITATION AND
REPLACEMENT SERVICES

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Ihave received ADDENDUM No. 2 to the Contract Bid Book titled, “Wastewater Treatment Plant
On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services”. I have read and understand the information
stated in the addendum.

_hexs CC 20 cS

Date

James D. Troup, President & CEO
Respondent’s Name (Printed)

Monterey Mechanical Company
Name of Company

RETURN WITH BID DOCUMENTS

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation
and Replacement Services Addendum No. 2 Page 2 of 2

60 of 575


--- page 61 ---
II 2 7 ae Me. @
PUBLIC Ax

WORKS CLEANWATERPROGRAM
City of San Mateo PROTECTING THE BAY FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 330 W 20" Avenue
Azalea Mitch, P.E., Director San Mateo, CA 94403-1338

Tel: (650) 522-7300
Fax: (650) 522-7301

www.cityofsanmateo.org
February 13, 2023
ADDENDUM No. 3

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services

Effective immediately, the following changes to the Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call
Rehabilitation and Replacement Services Project posted on January 13, 2022, are noted below.

The following changes have been made:

SECTION 00 30 00 BID FORM (STIPULATED PRICE BASIS)
REVISE SUBSECTION 7.1.7 WITH THE FOLLOWING UNDERLINED LANGUAGE:

Submit at-pre-constructionmeeting a copy of a Health and Safety Plan demonstrating
compliance with the requirements of the Health Orders upon execution of Contract.

End

61 of 575


--- page 62 ---
ADDENDUM NO. 3

WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT ON-CALL REHABILITATION AND
REPLACEMENT SERVICES

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Ihave received ADDENDUM No. 3 to the Contract Bid Book titled, “Wastewater Treatment Plant
On-Call Rehabilitation and Replacement Services”. I have read and understand the information
stated in the addendum.

hn 22 2003

Date

Jame D. Troup, President & CEO

Respondent’s Name (Printed)

Monterey Mechanical Company
Name of Company

RETURN WITH BID DOCUMENTS

Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Rehabilitation
and Replacement Services Addendum No. 3 Page 2 of 2

62 of 575


--- page 63 ---
4.1.10. In accordance with California Public Contract Code 10285.1, Bidder
has not been convicted of violating state or federal antitrust law within the last
3 years.

as BASIS OF BIDS

5.1. The bid form includes categories that constitute the base scope of work in the contract.
Bids shall be evaluated as a sum of:

5.1.1. A: Price Schedule — Planned Work Labor, “Straight Work $ Per Hour”
unit prices

5.1.2. B: Price Schedule - Emergency Work Labor, “Straight Work $ Per
Hour” unit prices

5.1.3. C: Price Schedule -Equipment, “Price per Hour” unit prices

5.2. Bidder shall complete the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents for the
following price(s): (To be submitted with Proposal Form)

A: PRICE SCHEDULE — PLANNED WORK LABOR:

Straight Work| Overtime Premier werk sper
BIDITEM TYPE OF SERVICE ee hour (holidays,
$ per hour $ per hour
weekends, Se

A-1 Carpenter $ $ Z
Ss WX he

A-2 Certified Welder $ $

\
A-3 Electrician $ mp
A-4 Foreman $ So “a $

A-5 Haz-Mat Worker sh Ls fs

A-6 Heavy Equipment Operator a bs 5
a
$

A-9 Sheet Metal Worker $

Subtotal “A” - Straight Work
$ per Hour

B: PRICE SCHEDULE — EMERGENCY WORK LABOR:
Premium work $ per

Straight Work| Overtime

TYPE OF SERVICE hour (holidays,
$ per hour $ per hour
weekends, after hours)
—— a
Carpenter $
CITY OF SAN MATEO BID FORM
January 12, 2023 PAGE 5

63 of 575


--- page 64 ---
ON-CALL WWTP REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT SERVICES

Subtotal “B” — Emergency Straight

Work $ per Hour

C: PRICE SCHEDULE — EQUIPMENT:

B-2 Certified Welder $ $ $

B-3 Electrician $ $ S$

B-4 Foreman $ 5 $

B-5 Haz-Mat Worker sf S
—

| B-6 Heavy Equipment Operator |$ S $

B-7 Laborer $ $ $
Pipefitter $ $ 5 |

B-9 Sheet Metal Worker $ $ s 2~
NZ

Price Full Day |

BID TEM TYPE OF EQUIPMENT 6 ae i. ma Sam Trial Elona
_ l Backhoe . Vs
C-2 Small Loaf¥S Ys
L
C-3 Boom a geup 0 10 ton S$
C-4 Confinaaracs Equipment $
C-5 ExcaWation Shoring Equipment {$
C-6 Dump Truck, $
Portable Pump, 2”-4” Suction and s
Discharge Piping
C-8 | Welding Machine with torch assembly $
C-9 Pick Up Truck up to | ton $
C-10 Utility Service Truck $
C-11 Air Compressor and Jack hammers [$
— Subtotal “C” - Price per Hour $

TOTAL OF SUBTOTALS “A”, “B”, AND “C” (ABOVE): $

BID FORM
PAGE 6

CITY OF SAN MATEO
JANUARY 12, 2023

64 of 575


--- page 65 ---
5.3 The Contractor’s unit prices shall include the actual wages, benefits, insurance, profits,
taxes, and overhead.

5.4 Task Orders that require the services and equipment identified above shall include the
unit prices proposed. Costs associated with any services and/or equipment not listed
above shall be reviewed and negotiated between the Contractor and City prior to the
City issuing the Task Order for the Work.

5.6 The unit prices shall be fixed for the first two-year contract term. Unit rates for one-
year extension options shall not be increased more than 3% per year in comparison
to the original unit prices, or 3% more than the prevailing wage unit rate associated
with the service and/or equipment at the start of each extension option year,
whichever is higher.

6.1. Bidder accepts the provisions of the Contract as to liquidated damages in the event of failure
to complete the Work, and any specified Milestones, within the Contract Times.

7. ATTACHMENTS TO THIS BID

7.1. The following documents are submitted with and made a condition of this Bid:
7.1.1. Required Bid security in the form of Bid bond. Section 00 40 00
7.1.2. List of Proposed Subcontractors and Suppliers. Section 00 43 40

7.1.3. Evidence of authority to do business in the state of the Project; or a
written covenant to obtain such license within the time for acceptance of Bids.

7.1.4. Drug Free Workplace Form Section 00 45 80
7.1.5. Contractor’s License No.: _38836!

7.1.6. Noncollusion Affidavit. Section 00 48 00

7.1.7. Submit at pre-construction meeting a copy of a Health and Safety Plan
demonstrating compliance with the requirements of the Health Orders.

7.1.8. Nonresident Bidders shall submit bid preference rules applicable in the
state where Bidder’s principle place of business is located.

8. DEFINED TERMS

8.1. The terms used in this Bid with initial capital letters have the meanings stated in the
Instructions to Bidders, and the Agreement.

a. BID SUBMITTAL

9.1. This Bid submitted by: If Bidder is:

CITY OF SAN MATEO BID FORM
January 12, 2023 PAGE 7

65 of 575


--- page 66 ---
UNANIMOUS WRITTEN CONSENT
BY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF
MONTEREY MECHANICAL CO., INC.

The undersigned, being all the Directors of Monterey Mechanical Co., herein adopt the
following resolutions by their unanimous written consent thereto, with the same force and
effect as if adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors duly called and held.

WHERAS Monterey Mechanical Co. submits bids for projects that require an
authorized signature on behalf of the company.

NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby

RESOLVED: that Milton C Burleson, CEO of Monterey Mechanical Co., or Paul
Moreira, Secretary/Treasurer of Monterey Mechanical Co., or Jim Troup, President of
Monterey Mechanical Co. is authorized to sign any bid on behalf of Monterey
Mechanical Co. .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument to be effective
as of April 24, 2012.

Richard F. Hamilton _ Milton Burleson

Paul Moreira — Corporate Secretary
Monterey Mechanical Co.

8275 San Leandro St

Oakland, CA 94621

Incorporated in California

66 of 575


--- page 67 ---
ON-CALL WWTP REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT SERVICES
An Individual
Name (typed or printed):
By (signature):
Doing business as:
A Partnership
Partnership Name: (SEAL)

By: —————————————
(Signature of general partner — attach evidence of authority to sign)

Name (typed or printed):

A Corporation

Corporation Name;_ Monterey Mechanical Co. (SEAL)

State of Incorporation: __ California

Type (General Bust ofessional, Service, Limited Liability):

By:

(Signatfre — attach evj of authority to sign)

Nahe (typed or printed): James D. Troup

Title: President & CEO (CORPORATE SEAL)

(Signature of Corporate Secretary)

Date of Qualification to do business in California is:

March 26, 1980

A Joint Venture

Joint Venturer Name: (SEAL)

By:

BID FORM CITY OF SAN MATEO
PAGE 8 JANUARY 12, 2023

67 of 575


--- page 68 ---
(Signature of joint venture partner — attach evidence of authority to

sign)
Name (typed or printed):

Title:

(Each joint venturer must sign. The manner of signing for each
individual, partnership, and corporation that is a party to the joint
venture should be in the manner indicated above.)

Bidder’s Business Address: 8275 San Leandro Street, Oakland, CA 94621

Phone No.: 510-636-4307

E-mail: j.troup@montmech.com

SUBMITTED on2/s CC 20 200

California Contractor’s License No.: 388361

Contractor’s License Class (where applicable): _A, B, C4, C12, C16, C20, C36, C42, C43

END OF SECTION

CITY OF SAN MATEO BID FORM
January 12, 2023 PAGE 9

68 of 575


--- page 69 ---
SECTION 00 40 00
BID BOND

Any singular reference to Bidder, Surety, Owner, or other party shall be considered plural where applicable.

BIDDER (Name and Address):

Monterey Mechanical Co.
8275 San Leandro Street,
Oakland, California 94621

SURETY (Name and Address of Principal Place of Business):

Liberty Mutual insurance Company
1340 Treat Blvd., Suite 400
Wainut Creek, CA 94597

OWNER (Name and Address):
City of San Mateo

330 West 20" Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

BID

Bid Due Date: February 22, 2023
Project (Brief Description In cluding Location): Immediate Action Projects Package II, San Mateo, CA BOND

Bond Number. Bid Bond
Date (Not later than Bid due date): February 6, 2023

Penalsum = __ Ten Percent of the total amount bid =

(Words) (Figures)

Surety and Bidder, mtending to be legally bound hereby, subject to the terms printed on the reverse side hereof, do
each cause this Bid Bond to be duly executed on its behalf by its authorized officer, agent, or representative.

BIDDER SURETY

Monterey Mechanical Co. Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
(Seal) ___ (Seal)

Surety’s Name and Corporate Seal

Power of Atfomgy) Betty L. Tolentino
Attest: Attest: ey at ae
Signature and Title Signature and Title

Note: Above addresses are to be used for giving required notice.

1340 Treat Bivd., Suite 400,
Wainut Creek, CA 94597

CITY OF SAN MATEO BID BOND
January 12, 2023 PAGE 1

69 of 575


--- page 70 ---
ON-CALL WWTP REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT SERVICES

1;

Bidder and Surety, jointly and severally, bind
themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns to pay to Owner upon
default of Bidder the penal sum set forth on the face
of this Bond. Payment of the penal sum is the extent
of Surety’s liability.

provided that the total time for
issuing Notice of Award including
extensions shall not im the
appregate exceed 120 days from
Bid due date without Surety’s
written consent.

: - . 6. No suit or action shall be
2. Default of Bidder shall occur upon the failure of - .
Bidder to deliver within the time required by the ——— ae — pene
Bidding Documents (or any extension thereof -e default : es Pare ms
agreed to in writing by Owner) the executed shovevis sha by Bi era’ me
Contract required by the Bidding Documents and Surety and in no case ede than
any perfonmance and payment bonds required by the one vear Bid due date
Bidding Documents. year after ~
3. This obligation shall be null and void if 7. pas ne oraction a Sead
court of competent jurisdic: iction
3.1. Owner accepts Bidder’s Bid and Bidder ne ile lala
delivers within the time required by the Bidding 4 .
Documents (or any extension thereof agreed to
in writing by Owner) the executed Contract . ; ;
required by the Bidding Documents and any Sted ee
performance and payment bonds required by peer Suniy at their § tive
the Bidding Documents, or addresses shown on the face of this
Bond. Such notices may be sent by
3.2. All Bids are rejected by Owner, or io wie tied canes
Registered or Certified Mail,
retu ipt st
3.3. Owner fails to issue a Notice of Award to pre-paid. ord Bot ted eed S.
Bidder within the time specified in the Bidding be effective upon receipt by the
Documents (or any extension thereof agreed to party concerned. .
in writing by Bidder and, if applicable,
consented to by Surety when required by
i 9. Surety shall cause to be attached to
this Bond a current and effective
P f Attomey evidencing the
4. Payment under this Bond will be due and payable a ite of ee ie ma ay
upon default by Bidder and within 30 calendar days representative who execnged this
after receipt by Bidder and Surety of written notice Bond on behalf of Surety to
of default from Owner, which notice will be given execute: seal, and deliver suck
swith reasonable promptness, identifying this Bond Bond and bind the Srunty Heewttey
and the Project and including a statement of the . ~
amount due.
10. This Bond is intended to conform
t I licable statutory
5. Surety waives notice of any and all defenses based ne ke applicable
on or arising out of any time extension to issue : : : licabl
Notice of Award agreed to in writing by Owner and ies an Tay Ms aaied an
Bidder, this Bond shall be deemed to be
included herein as if set forth at
length. If any provision of this
BID BOND CITY OF SAN MATEO
PAGE 2 JANUARY 12, 2023

70 of 575


--- page 71 ---
Bond conflicts with any applicable
statute, then the provision of said

statute shall govern and the 11. The term “Bid” as used herein
remainder of this Bond that is not includes a Bid, offer, or proposal
in conflict therewith shall continue as applicable.
in full force and effect.
END OF SECTION
CITY OF SAN MATEO BID BOND
January 12, 2023 PAGE 3

71 of 575


--- page 72 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A notary public or other officer completing this

validity of that document.

State of California

County of San Francisco)

On fe, before me, M. Moody, Notary Public
(insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared Betty L. Tolentino ’
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

ae: Eig BODY os i
oe é RN c
WITNESS my hand and official seal. esc) NOTARY PUBLIC @CALIFORNA

San Francisco County
Commission Expires January 8, 2026

Signature

72 of 575


--- page 73 ---
This Power of Attorney limits the acts of those named herein, and they have no authority to
bind the Company except in the manner and to the extent herein stated.

ber t y Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
Mutual. The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company Certificate No: 8208346-024125
—_——— West American Insurance Company

SURETY
POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOWN ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS: That The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company is a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of New Hampshire, that
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company is a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and West American Insurance Company is a corporation duly organized
under the laws of the State of Indiana (herein collectively called the “Companies’), pursuant to and by authority herein set forth, does hereby name, constitute and appoint, Betty L.
Tolentino, Brian Cooper, Brittany Kavan, Janet C. Rojo, Julia Ortega, K. Zerounian, Kevin Re, M. Moody, Maureen O'Connell, Misty R. Hemje, Robert P. Wrixon,
Susan Hecker, Susan M. Exline, Thuyduong Le, Virginia L. Black

all of the city of Walnut Creek state of CA each individually if there be more than one named, its true and lawful attorney-in-fact to make,
execute, seal, acknowledge and deliver, for and on its behalf as surety and as its act and deed, any and all undertakings, bonds, recognizances and other surety obligations, in pursuance
of these presents and shall be as binding upon the Companies as if they have been duly signed by the president and attested by the secretary of the Companies in their own proper
persons.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Power of Attorney has been subscribed by an authorized officer or official of the Companies and the corporate seals of the Companies have been affixed

thereto this 20th day of July , 2022.

Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company
West American Insurance Company

David M. Carey, Assistant Secretary

State of PENNSYLVANIA ss
County of MONTGOMERY

On this 20th day of July , 2022 _ before me personally appeared David M. Carey, who acknowledged himself to be the Assistant Secretary of Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company, The Ohio Casualty Company, and West American Insurance Company, and that he, as such, being authorized so to do, execute the foregoing instrument for the purposes
therein contained by signing on behalf of the corporations by himself as a duly authorized officer.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, | have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed my notarial seal at Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania, on the day and year first above written.

POA) verification inquiries,
OSUR@libertymutual.com.

fi

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania - Notary Seal

Teresa Pastella, Notary Public

Montgomery County qr b
My commission expires March 28, 2025 By:
Commission number 1126044 7
eresa Pastella, Notary Public

Member, Pennsylvania Association of Notaries

This Power of Attorney is made and executed pursuant to and by authority of the following By-laws and Authorizations of The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, and West American Insurance Company which resolutions are now in full force and effect reading as follows:

ARTICLE IV - OFFICERS: Section 12. Power of Attorney.
Any officer or other official of the Corporation authorized for that purpose in writing by the Chairman or the President, and subject to such limitation as the Chairman or the
President may prescribe, shall appoint such attorneys-in-fact, as may be necessary to act in behalf of the Corporation to make, execute, seal, acknowledge and deliver as surety
any and all undertakings, bonds, recognizances and other surety obligations. Such attorneys-in-fact, subject to the limitations set forth in their respective powers of attorney, shall
have full power to bind the Corporation by their signature and execution of any such instruments and to attach thereto the seal of the Corporation. When so executed, such
instruments shall be as binding as if signed by the President and attested to by the Secretary. Any power or authority granted to any representative or attorney-in-fact under the
provisions of this article may be revoked at any time by the Board, the Chairman, the President or by the officer or officers granting such power or authority.
ARTICLE XIll - Execution of Contracts: Section 5. Surety Bonds and Undertakings.
Any officer of the Company authorized for that purpose in writing by the chairman or the president, and subject to such limitations as the chairman or the president may prescribe,
shall appoint such attorneys-in-fact, as may be necessary to act in behalf of the Company to make, execute, seal, acknowledge and deliver as surety any and all undertakings,
bonds, recognizances and other surety obligations. Such attorneys-in-fact subject to the limitations set forth in their respective powers of attorney, shall have full power to bind the
Company by their signature and execution of any such instruments and to attach thereto the seal of the Company. When so executed such instruments shall be as binding as if
signed by the president and attested by the secretary.
Certificate of Designation — The President of the Company, acting pursuant to the Bylaws of the Company, authorizes David M. Carey, Assistant Secretary to appoint such attorneys-in-
fact as may be necessary to act on behalf of the Company to make, execute, seal, acknowledge and deliver as surety any and all undertakings, bonds, recognizances and other surety
obligations.
Authorization - By unanimous consent of the Company's Board of Directors, the Company consents that facsimile or mechanically reproduced signature of any assistant secretary of the
Company, wherever appearing upon a certified copy of any power of attorney issued by the Company in connection with surety bonds, shall be valid and binding upon the Company with
the same force and effect as though manually affixed.
|, Renee C. Llewellyn, the undersigned, Assistant Secretary, The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, and West American Insurance Company do
hereby certify that the original power of attorney of which the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the Power of Attorney executed by said Companies, is in full force and effect and

has not been revoked.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seals of said Companies this (iH day of Pebasany 20 23
fe)

Renee C. Llewellyn, Assistant Secretary

interest rate or residual value guarantees.

er
3
a)
—
S
i
3
—
o
Ea
co)
=
@
Ke)
oO
2
fe)
=
o
D
a
D
=
fe)
&
—
2
So
ic
>
a
ie)
Pad

currency rate,

a
L£
ox)
Se
tis
SO
cs
oN
3°
og
ay
52
oO
o>
co
oa
Oo
Ba
. ©
om
Le a

LMS-12873 LMIC OCIC WAIC Multi Co 02/21

73 of 575


--- page 74 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or

State of California
County of ALAMEDA )

On febcoory A MLS before me, Zach R. Strand, Notary Public
: : (insert name and title of the officer)

= —
personally appeared Ses 0 =: ’
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the Person(s) whose name(s) is/are

subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal. waABD) Notary Public. Cater

Alameda County Z

Commission # 2334040
My Comm. Expires Sep 22, 2024

Signat (Seal)

74 of 575


--- page 75 ---
SECTION 00 43 40
PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM

Pursuant to California Public Contract Code §4104 et seq., the Bidder shall list below the names, locations of place of
business, and California contractor license number of each subcontractor who will perform Work or labor or who will
render service to the prime Contractor in or about the construction of the Work or improvement, or a subcontractor
duly licensed who, under subcontract to the prime Contractor, specially fabricates and installs a portion of the Work
or improvement according to detailed Drawings contained in the Bidding Documents, in an amount in excess of 1/2 of

€ prime Contractor's total Bid or, in the case of Bids or offers for the construction of streets or highways,
including bridges, in excess of 1/2 of | percent of the prime Contractor's total Bid or $10,000, whichever is greater.
After the opening of Bids, no changes or substitutions will be allowed except as otherwise provided by law. The listing
of more than one subcontractor for each item of Work to be performed with the words “and/or” will not be permitted.
The Bidder's attention is directed to the provisions of Paragraph 7.06.B.1 of the Supplementary Conditions, which
stipulates the percent of the Work to be performed with the Bidder's own forces. Failure to comply with this
requirement may render the Bid as non-responsive and may cause its rejection.

—

Contractor License | Percent of | Subcontractor’s Name, Address, and

|__ Work to be Performed Number Total Contract Contact Person
Hazardous Material Bayview Environmental Services

| Abatement Services #684341 0.5% Oakland, CA, Dave Davis

‘ DIR #1000002423

Electrical & Instrumentatio Cupertino Electric

b. | #174637 0.5% San Jose, CA, Christain

| DIR #1000003692

3.

Add additional sheets, if necessary.

BIDDER

Jame D. Troup, President & CEO
Signature)

END OF SECTION

CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM
January 12, 2023 PAGE |

75 of 575


--- page 76 ---
SECTION 00 45 80
CERTIFICATION OF DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE REQUIREMENTS

l.. PART 1 BIDDER CERTIFICATIONS

1.1. The Bidder certifies that it will or will continue to provide a drug-free workplace by:

ledels Publishing a statement airs lai i that the “—

sohgeance | iS sieththined i in rhe Bidder's workplace and spenifjing the actions
that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition.

1.1.1.1. Making it a requirement that each employee to be engaged in
the performance of the contract be given a copy of the statement.

1.1.1.2. Notifying the employee in the statement that, as a condition of
employment under the Contract, the employee will:

1.1.1.2.1. Abide by the terms of the statement.

1.1.1.2.2. Notify the employer in writing of his or her
conviction for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in
the work place no later than 5 calendar days after such
conviction.

1.1.1.2.2.1. Notifying the Owner in writing within

10 calendar days after receiving notice from an
employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such
conviction.

1.1.1.2.2.2. Taking one of the following actions, within
30 calendar days of receiving notice, with respect to
any employee who is so convicted:

1.1.1.2.2.2.1. Taking appropriate personnel
action against such an employee, up to and
including termination, consistent with the
requirements of Federal and State law.

1.1.1.2.2.2.2. Requiring such employee to
participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program approved
for such purpose by a Federal, State or local
health, law enforcement, or other appropriate
agency.

1.1.1.2.3. Notify the employee that in the event of a major
accident/incident resulting in loss of life, injury or damage to
the facility, or equipment, all personnel involved shall be

CITY OF SAN MATEO CERTIFICATION OF DRUG-FREE
January 12, 2023 WORKPLACE REQUIREMENTS, PAGE 1

76 of 575


--- page 77 ---
ON-CALL WWTP REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT SERVICES

required to submit to substance testing as soon as possible after
the incident, but not more than 4 hours after the incident.

1.1.2. Establishing an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform
employees about:

1.1.2.2. The Bidder's policy of maintaining a drug-free work place. |

1.1.2.3. Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee
assistance programs.

1.1.2.4. The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug
abuse violations occurring in the work place.

1.1.3. Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free work
place through implementation of the requirements stated in this Document.

2: PART 2 WORK LOCATIONS

2.1. The Bidder may insert in the space provided below the site(s) for the performance of
work done in connection with this Contract:

Place(s) of Performance: (Street address, city,
county, state, zip code):

8275 San Leandro Street, Oakland, CA 94621

Monterey Mechanical Company
BIDDER

D. Troup, President & CEO

fa 22. 2023

(Date)
END OF SECTION
CERTIFICATION OF DRUG-FREE CITY OF SAN MATEO
WORKPLACE REQUIREMENTS, PAGE 2 January 12, 2023

77 of 575


--- page 78 ---
SECTION 00 48 00
NONCOLLUSION AFFIDAVIT

(TO BE EXECUTED BY BIDDER AND SUBMITTED WITH BID)

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF _ San Mateo \

ane... TON , being first duly sworn,

deposes and says that he or she is _ President & CEO of

Monterey Mechanical Company __ the party making the foregoing Bid that the Bid is not made
in the interest of, or on behalf of, any undisclosed person, partnership, company, association,
organization, or corporation; that the Bid is genuine and not collusive or sham; that the
Bidder has not directly or indirectly induced or solicited any other Bidder to put in a false or
sham bid, and has not directly or indirectly colluded, conspired, connived, or agreed with any
Bidder or anyone else to put in a sham bid, or that anyone shall refrain from bidding; that the
Bidder has not in any manner, directly or indirectly, sought by contract, communication, or
conference with anyone to fix the Bid price of the Bidder or any other Bidder, or to fix any
overhead, profit, or cost element of the Bid price, or of that of any other Bidder, or to secure
any advantage against the public body awarding the Contract of anyone interested in the
proposed Contract; that all statements contained in the Bid are true; and, further, that the
Bidder has not, directly or indirectly, submitted his or her Bid price or any breakdown
thereof, or the contents thereof, or divulged information or data relative thereto, or paid, and
will not pay, any fee to any corporation, partnership, company association, organization, Bid
depository, or to any member or agent thereof to effectuate a collusive or sham Bid.

Monterey Mechanical Company
Name o

Z James D. ra President & CEO

Bidder (A ffiant)

Subscribed and sworn to before me this UF say of faky(uory , 20 ZS

My commission expires: aqui LOY
oh . L, VL Notary Public

END OF SECTION

ZACH R. STRAND
Notary Public - California F
Alameda County

vi Sy Commission # 2334040
YY my Comm. Expires Sep 22, 2024

CITY OF SAN MATEO NONCOLLUSION AFFIDAVIT
January 12, 2023 PAGE 1

78 of 575


--- page 79 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual

who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or

State of California

County of _ ALAMEDA )
On febl Voy j A of LOE retore me, Zach R. Strand, Notary Public
{insert name and title of the officer)
personally appeared SGM . “4 ;

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing

paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal. ane ZACH R. STRAND
ee : oe Notary Public - California

. Alameda County
Commission # 2334040
My Comm. Expires Sep 22, 2024

Signat

79 of 575


--- page 80 ---
TANTO MO PTET RITA AAT UOT TT MN VA

BA20220868073
STATE OF CALIFORNIA For Office Use Only
Office of the Secretary of State
STATEMENT OF INFORMATION -FILED-
CORPORATION
California Secretary of State File No.: BA20220868073
1500 11th Street Date Filed: 9/20/2022

Sacramento, California 95814
(916) 653-3516

Entity Details
Corporation Name MONTEREY MECHANICAL CO.
Entity No. 0930392
Formed In CALIFORNIA

Street Address of Principal Office of Corporation

Principal Address 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
OAKLAND, CA 94621

Mailing Address of Corporation

Mailing Address 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
OAKLAND, CA 94621

Attention

Street Address of California Office of Corporation

Street Address of California Office 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
OAKLAND, CA 94621
Officers

CAKLAND-GA-346a2 : |
SAKLAND-GA-94624

Paul Moreira 8275 San Leandro St Secretary, Chief Financial Officer
Oakland, CA 94621

James D Troup 8275 SAN LEANDRO STREET Chief Executive Officer
OAKLAND, CA 94621

i

ayes jo Azejazoeg eturostTeD Aq paateoay wa ¢ee:zt \zzaz/nz/en cafe-sttIta

Additional Officers
None Entered

Directors

Patsy Fitzpatrick 8275 San Leandro St
Oakland, CA 94621

Paul Moreira 8275 San Leandro St
Oakland, CA 94621

James D Troup 8275 SAN LEANDRO STREET
OAKLAND, CA 94621

Paae 1 of %

80 of 575


--- page 81 ---
montmec

invoice Approval Page

Vendor: 14588 - SECRETARY OF STATE

InvoiceNo: C0930392-2021AM Invoice Date: 09-20-2022 01:13:36 PM

Amount: 30

Comment: C0930392 Amended

PAUL MOREIRA PAUL MOREIRA PAUL MOREIRA

Id ANAL

| 09-20-2022 01:15:09 PM

NE

PAUL MOREIRA

81 of 575


--- page 82 ---
Ril Milton C Burleson 8275 SAN LEANDRO STREET

OAKLAND, CA 94621

The number of vacancies on Board of Directors is: 1

Agent for Service of Process
Agent Name PAUL MOREIRA

Agent Address 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
OAKLAND, CA 94621

e7eqs Jo Aiejaroesg eturoztTeg Aq peatoeosy Wa FF:7T 74NZ/NZ/6N 9OFC-FTITA

Type of Business
Type of Business Monterey Mechanical

Email Notifications

Opt-in Email Notifications No, | do NOT want to receive entity notifications via email. |
prefer notifications by USPS mail.

Labor Judgment

No Officer or Director of this Corporation has an outstanding final judgment issued by the Division of Labor
Standards Enforcement or a court of law, for which no appeal therefrom is pending, for the violation of any wage
order or provision of the Labor Code.

Electronic Signature

[X] Sy signing, | affirm that the information herein is true and correct and that | am authorized by California law to sign.

Paul Moreira 09/20/2022
Signature Date

Paae 2 of :

82 of 575


--- page 83 ---
California Secretary of State

Business Programs Division
1500 11th Street, Sacramento, CA 95814

MONTEREY MECHANICAL CO.
8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
ARNO, WA HIG mee ee ee ee see ee ee

Business Amendment Filing Approved
September 20, 2022

Entity Name: MONTEREY MECHANICAL CO.
Entity Type: Stock Corporation - CA - General
Entity No.: 930392

Document Type: Statement of Information
Document No.: BA20220868073

File Date: 09/20/2022

The above referenced document has been approved and filed with the California Secretary of State. To
access free copies of filed documents, go to bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov and enter the entity name or entity
number in the Search module.

What's Next?

The most up to date records may be obtained by searching for the Entity Name or Entity Number in the

Search module at bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov.

For further assistance, contact us at (916) 657-5448 or visit bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov.

Thank you for using bizfile California, the California Secretary of State's
biG? < business portal for online filings, searches, business records, and additional
ATE GOR MY Ae resources.

83 of 575


--- page 84 ---
Secretary of State

Business Programs Division
1500 11th Street, Sacramento, CA 95814

PAUL MOREIRA Receipt Date: 09/20/2022 |

MONTEREY MECHANICAL Receipt No: 2593706
- - 8275 SAN LEANDRO STREET : :
OAKLAND, CA 94621

Receipt Detail

Description Document/Payment No. Amount
Corporation - Statement of Information BA20220868073 -$25.00
Certified Copy - BE BA20220868073 -$5.00
Payment - Web Credit Card 48********"*8999 / Auth. No. 011169 $30.00
Total Amount Charged: -$30.00
Total Payment Received: $30.00
Page 1 of 1

84 of 575


--- page 85 ---
BUSINESS TAX CERTIFICATE - CITY OF SAN MATEO
City of San Mateo Business Tax Division
330 West 20th Avenue San Mateo, CA 94403-1388 , (650) 522-7113

Detach at perforation and post certificate in a conspicuous place. This tax certificate is not transferable or assignable

This certificate is issued without verification that the holder is subject to or exempted from
licensing by the state, county, federal government, or any other government agency.

Expiration Date: 09/30/2023 Issued Date: 10/01/2022
Business Number: 38720 Business Phone No: (510) 636-4332
Mailing 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST €b
“ar sAddrassn OAKLAND, CA 946241972 x
Owners/Officers: RICHARD HAMILTON Business 8275 SAN LEANDRO ST
MILT BURLESON Address: OAKLAND, CA 946211972

Type of Business; Out of Town Business
Description: ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION

This certificate evidences that the person(s), firm or corporation named herein has paid the applicable tax
required by the San Mateo Municipal Code for the period indicated above. No certificate issued under the
provisions of Title 5 of the San Mateo Municipal Code shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or
continuance of any illegal or unlawful operation in violation of any City Ordinance relating thereto.

It is the responsibility of the business to renew this certificate, and failure to receive a renewal notice does not relieve the business
of the responsibility for timely renewal. The tax becomes delinquent forty-five days after the expiration date printed above. If you do
not receive a renewal notice by the expiration date, or if no longer conducting business in the City of San Mateo, please contact our
office.

itis the responsibility of the business to retain this certificate for tax documentation purposes.

Starting January 1, 2021, Assembly Bill 1607 requires the prevention of gender-based discrimination of business establishments. A
full notice is available in English or other languages by going to: https://www.dca.ca.gov/publications/

BEFORE POSTING TrlE ABOVE CERTIFICATE THIS RECEIPT MUST BE DETACHED

Payment has been received by our office as follows:

Expiration Date: 09/30/2023 Issued Date: 10/072022
Fee Name Amount
Credit Card Processing Fee $3.02
State CASp Fee (AB1379) $4.00
General Contractor $100.00
Tél Pad: so as ee $107.02

85 of 575


--- page 86 ---
al neers aa ¥ZOZ/LE/E0 ~rovmees
|

| 9L9 €hO ZO
Sy

9 TVOINVHOSW ASYSLNOW “*ee=2

geo 8 | Loesse

| NEON IAUOY vane wants
yYvO 7 Co
SYOLOVYHLNOD | =

|

86 of 575


--- page 87 ---
2/22/23, 8:52 AM Registrations
(_} Operating Engineer

{-} Painter

(_) Parking/Highway/Improvement

(_} Plasterer/Tender

{-} Plumber

(_} Roofing

() Sheet Metal Worker

J

(| Teamster

() Terrazzo Worker/ Finisher
{-} Tile Setter/ Finisher
{-] Water Well Driller

Registrations

Search Results: 1 found

BAYVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES, INC.

Detail:

Registration 1000002423
Number:

Status: Active

CSLB Number: 684341
Legal Entity Type: Corporation
Mailing Address: 6925 SAN LEANDRO STREET

OAKLAND
CA 94621
County: Alameda
Craft: General Building
Email: gorozco @bayviewservices.com

DBA

Name

BAYVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES, INC.

https://cadir.secure.force.com/ContractorSearch?inputSearch=1000002423

Showing Page 1 of 1 [Previous Next |

Add all to my list |} My List (O)~

View Details

“+ Add to My List

Registration History
Effective Date Expiration Date

7/1/2022
7/1/2021
7/1/2020
7/1/2019
6/4/2018
5/31/2017
6/8/2016
6/2/2015

11/3/2014

6/30/2023
6/30/2022
6/30/2021
6/30/2020
6/30/2019
6/30/2018
6/30/2017
6/30/2016

6/30/2015

87 of 575

2/2


--- page 88 ---
2/22/23, 8:52 AM Registrations
(-) Operating Engineer
(_} Painter
(_) Parking/Highway/Improvement
(_} Plasterer/Tender
{-} Plumber
(_} Roofing
{_) Sheet Metal Worker

() Teamster _— |

{) Terrazzo Worker/ Finisher
{_} Tile Setter/Finisher
{| Water Well Driller

Registrations oe
Search Results: 1 found snowing Page. ord [Previous| [Next]

CUPERTINO ELECTRIC, IN ‘+ Add to My List

Detail: Registration History
Registration 1000003692 Effective Date Expiration Date
Number:

Status: Relive 7/1/2022 6/30/2025
CSLB Number: 174637 7/1/2019 6/30/2022

Legal Entity Type: Corporation

Mailing Address: 1132 NORTH SEVENTH STREET 6/14/2018 — 6/30/2019

SAN JOSE 5/10/2017 6/30/2018
CA 95112
County: Santa Clara 5/5/2016 6/30/2017
cain mnie Utility;Electrician;General Buildin... 6/9/2015 6/30/2016
Email: Janiece_santoro@ceil.com

12/11/2014 6/30/2015

DBA

Name

CUPERTINO ELECTRIC, INC,

https://cadir.secure.force.com/ContractorSearch?inputSearch=1000003692 2/2
88 of 575


--- page 89 ---
2/22/23, 8:53 AM Registrations
(_} Operating Engineer

(-} Painter

_} Parking/Highway/Improvement

(_} Plasterer/Tender

|} Plumber

{_} Roofing

{-) Sheet Metal Worker

(_] Teamster —

() Terrazzo Worker/Finisher
() Tile Setter/Finisher
(} Water Well Driller

Registrations

Showing Page 1 of 1 [Previous| (Next

MONTEREY MECHANICAL CO ‘+ Add to My List

)
|
|
{

Search Results: 1 found

Detail: Registration History
Registration 1000001627 Effective Date Expiration Date
Number:

Statiis: Active 7/1/2022 6/30/2025
CSLB Number: 388361 7/1/2019 6/30/2022

Legal Entity Type: Corporation

Mailing Address: 8275 SAN LEANDRO STREET 6/14/2018 6/30/2019

OAKLAND 5/17/2017 6/30/2018
CA 94621
County: Alameda 6/20/2016 6/30/2017
Craft: General Building;General Engineering 6/30/2015 6/30/2016
Email: info@montmech.com

9/29/2014 6/30/2015

DBA

Name

CONTRA COSTA METAL FABRICATORS

PACIFIC METAL FABRICATORS

https://cadir.secure.force.com/ContractorSearch?inputSearch=1000001627

89 of 575


--- page 90 ---
EXHIBIT B 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS 
ARTICLE 1 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for three (3) years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or 
in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, 
bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per 
occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall 
be twice the required occurrence limit.   
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease.  
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the Contract and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if work on this Contract involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 
per occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the 
City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of 
insurance and coverage shall be available to the City. 
Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the 
option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such 
self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or 
the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment 
of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy 
90 of 575

--- page 91 ---
language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied 
by either the named insured or City. 
OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS  
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
The City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their officers, officials, employees, and 
volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability 
arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including 
materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations and 
automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General 
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s 
insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 
20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
For any claims related to this Contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees, or 
volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.  
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the City. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the City and the Estero Municipal Improvements 
District as a loss payees as their interest may appear. 
If the Contract does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such contract, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City and Estero Municipal Improvement District’s site. 
Claims Made Policies 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract.  
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
three (3) years after completion of the Contract.  
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy 
form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the 
Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of three 
(3) years after completion of the Contract.  
91 of 575

--- page 92 ---
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
Acceptability of Insurers  
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
Waiver of Subrogation  
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may 
acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City and 
the Estero Municipal Improvements District for all work performed by the Contractor, its 
employees, agents and subcontractors.  
Verification of Coverage  
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time. 
Subcontractors  
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
Surety Bonds.  
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
Performance Bond 
Payment Bond 
Maintenance Bond 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not 
necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
92 of 575

--- page 93 ---
Special Risks or Circumstances.   
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the 
risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
93 of 575

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 23-7265
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
US-101 Express Lanes – License Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a license agreement with San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority for US-101 Express Lane 
Project for the construction, maintenance, and operation of tolling equipment within the public right-of-way; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The US-101 Express Lanes project (Project) consists of 22 miles of express lanes from I-380 in South San Francisco to the 
San Mateo County/Santa Clary County line. Constructed by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), the 
management and operation of the Project is governed by the San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority 
(SMCEL-JPA). The SMCEL-JPA is a six-member joint powers authority consisting of three San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority (SMCTA) Board members and three City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) 
Board members.
One of the key goals of the Project is to reduce vehicle travel times by enabling higher vehicle speeds in designated lanes. 
The benefits include reduced congestion, encouragement of transit use and carpooling, increased person throughput, and 
improved reliability for express lane users. The Project relies on modern technology components for the management of 
traffic and the setting of tolls. 
The SMCEL-JPA is seeking a license agreement with the City to for the continued use of tolling equipment and facilities 
within the City’s Right-of-Way (ROW) in various locations in the City as part of the Project. The approximate location of the 
facilities is shown in Attachment 1 – Property and Facilities Locations. This license agreement allows the tolling equipment 
facilities to be maintained in the City’s ROW and notes that the SMCEL-JPA will be the owners and entirely responsible for 
the installation and maintenance of the facilities. The facilities have already been installed as part of an encroachment 
permit issued to Caltrans. If approved, the license agreement would take effect upon final approval of the encroachment 
permit. The tolling equipment and facilities as installed are shown in Exhibit A – Property and Facilities Locations of 
Attachment 1.  Based on the above, staff recommends approval of a license agreement to SMCEL-JPA.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approving the license agreement will have no fiscal impact on the City.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This license agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
94 of 575

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – License Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
95 of 575

--- page 96 ---
LICENSE AGREEMENT 
 
This LICENSE AGREEMENT (“License” or “Agreement”), made and entered into this 
  
day of  
2023, by and between the City of San Mateo, California, a 
municipal corporation (“City” or “Licensor”) and the San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint 
Powers Authority (“Licensee”). Licensor and Licensee may be referred to herein collectively as 
“the Parties.” 
 
RECITALS 
 
A. Whereas, the City owns or controls certain parcels, easements or public right-of-way situated in 
the City of San Mateo, California, as more particularly described in Exhibit A, attached hereto 
and incorporated herein by reference (the “Property”). 
 
B. Whereas, Licensee seeks to install certain “Facilities,” as defined in Section 1 - License, for the 
long-term operation of the San Mateo County Express Lanes Project on the portions of the 
City’s Property, as more particularly shown in Exhibit A (the “Premises”). 
 
C. Whereas, as consideration in lieu of a license fee, City has determined the installation of the 
Facilities to support the San Mateo County Express Lanes Project is beneficial to its citizens 
and the general public. 
 
D. Whereas, the City is agreeable to the grant of this Licensee for access and use of the Property 
for the purpose of installing the Facilities on the Premises subject to the terms and conditions of 
this License including Licensee’s obligation to maintain the Facilities. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are 
hereby acknowledge, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. License. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee and its employees, representatives a personal, 
revocable license ("License") to enter upon the Property to use the Premises to construct, 
install, operate, maintain, repair, replace, and remove equipment as necessary for the 
operation of the San Mateo County Express Lanes Project, and as more particularly 
described in Exhibit A. "Facilities” shall mean infrastructure owned by the San Mateo 
County Express Lane Joint Powers Authority (SMCEL-JPA) used for tolling purposes. 
Infrastructure may include but are not limited to service enclosures, transformers, 
photoelectric unit, and apparatuses supporting these devices, as installed in the City of San 
Mateo right-of-way in proximity to the following APNs; 107220020, 035087280, 
035066440, 033323270, 033136070, 033171140, 033191050, 033073250, 033052060, 
0292350020, 029350020, 040411999 and as further detailed and described in Exhibit A. 
 
Licensee, along with its employees, representatives, consultants, contractors, volunteers 
and/or other persons under its control retained in connection with the construction, 
installation, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and removal of equipment as 
necessary for the operation of the San Mateo County Express Lanes Project, shall be 
permitted to use this License unless otherwise prohibited by Licensor. This Agreement 
grants Licensee a license only and notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this 
License does not constitute a grant by City of any ownership, leasehold, easement or other 
96 of 575

--- page 97 ---
property interest or estate whatsoever in the Property, or any portion thereof. Nothing in this 
Agreement shall be construed as granting or creating any franchise rights pursuant to any 
federal, state or local laws. 
 
This License is nonexclusive and nonpossessory. Licensee must allow access to the License 
Area by Licensor and other parties who may be granted access by Licensor. Licensee must 
coordinate its activities as to not interfere with Licensor’s use of the Property. 
 
2. Use. Licensee shall use the Premises solely for purposes of the operation of the San Mateo 
County Express Lanes Project and will not use it for any other purpose whatsoever without 
an amendment to this License pursuant to Paragraph 18. Unless specifically provided 
otherwise herein, the Licensee shall have no right to locate any other surface installation or 
to install fencing on any part of the Premises. 
 
3. Assumption of the Risk / Waiver of Claims. Licensee accepts the Premises in its existing 
condition, and without limiting such agreement, Licensee on behalf of itself and its 
successors and assigns, waives its right to recover from, and forever releases and discharges 
Licensor from any and all claims, whether direct or indirect, known or unknown, foreseen 
and unforeseen, that may arise on account of or in any way be connected with the physical or 
environmental condition of the Premises and any related improvements or any law or 
regulation applicable thereto or the suitability of the Premises for Licensee’s intended use. 
 
4. Term and Termination. The term of this License shall commence upon final approval of the 
encroachment permit for the work covered by the License and last until this License is 
terminated. This License may be terminated by mutual consent of the Parties, or for any 
reason by Licensor upon 90 days written notice. Licensor may terminate this License in the 
event of Licensee’s default of any License provisions and failure to cure within 60 days of 
written notice provided pursuant to Paragraph 26 of this License. 
 
5. Installation and Conformity with Approved Plans and Specifications. At its own expense, 
Licensee shall design, install and construct the Facilities of such material, and in a manner 
that will not at any time be a source of danger to, or interfere with the City’s present or 
future use of the Premises, including but not limited to, use of the Premises as public right- 
of-way, or the use of the Premises by any utility presently franchised, licensed, or approved 
by the City with installations in place at the time this License is entered into. If prior to 
installation, Licensor determines that the Licensee’s proposed installation will interfere with 
existing or proposed City installations or any existing underground installations that predate 
this License, then Licensee shall at its sole expense redesign the Facilities to eliminate the 
interference as described by Licensor. 
 
The Facilities shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in conformity with the 
Licensor-approved plans and specifications, which are incorporated and hereby approved by 
reference. The Parties agree that the presentation of plans and specifications of the Facilities 
shall be a discretionary approval of the plan or design by the Licensee and a determination 
by Licensee that such plans or design are reasonable, and that the approval of the plans and 
specifications shall be a discretionary approval of the plan or design by the Licensor and a 
determination by Licensor that the plans and designs are reasonable. Before performing any 
construction, Licensee or its contractors shall be solely responsible for obtaining all permits 
97 of 575

--- page 98 ---
and insurance required by Licensor for work within the right-of-way and will pay all fees 
and reimburse Licensor for all reasonable and necessary costs incurred in inspecting and 
supervising the work performed. 
 
After installation of the Facilities, Licensee shall back-fill, compact, repair and repave all 
resulting trenches, curbs, gutters and pavement to the satisfaction of the Licensor, in 
accordance with Licensor’s standard designs and specifications. 
 
If, in the sole judgment of Licensor, Licensee at any time fails to perform its obligations 
under this section, Licensor, at its option, may perform whatever work it deems necessary 
for the public safety, health and welfare, and Licensee shall reimburse Licensor within 
thirty (30) days after Licensor invoices Licensee for the actual cost to Licensor of 
performing such work. However, Licensor is not required to perform such work, and any 
failure by Licensor to perform Licensee’s obligations shall not release Licensee from 
liability for any loss or damage caused by Licensee’s failure to perform its obligations. 
 
Installation and maintenance of the Facilities shall be accomplished in a manner which will 
not unreasonably impede Licensor’s access to the Premises or impede its use for operation 
and maintenance of infrastructure, as determined by Licensor. The timing and manner of 
such construction, maintenance, and removal shall be done in compliance with the 
Licensor’s requirements. 
 
If the Facilities or any part thereof creates an emergency condition, and Licensor determines 
that the situation makes it unreasonable to notify Licensee or await action by Licensee, 
Licensor may take whatever actions it deems necessary to remedy the emergency situation 
at the sole expense of Licensee and Licensee will reimburse the Licensor within thirty (30) 
days after the Licensor invoices Licensee for its actual cost of performing such work. 
 
6. Liens and Claims. Licensee will not permit any mechanics', material suppliers’, or other 
similar liens, claims, or stop notices to stand against the Property for labor, material, or 
services furnished in connection with any activities by Licensee under this Agreement. If any 
mechanics', material suppliers’, or other similar lien is filed against the Property, or any stop 
notice is served, for work or labor performed or claimed to have been performed, or goods, 
materials or services furnished or, claimed to have been furnished upon or with respect to the 
Property at any time during the use of the Property, then unless Licensee elects to contest 
such lien or stop notice in accordance with the provisions of this section, Licensee shall 
discharge or cause the discharge of such lien or stop notice within thirty (30) days thereafter 
whether by payment, release, or posting of a bond or other similar assurance in the amount 
of one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the face amount of any such lien or stop 
notice. If such lien or stop notice is discharged other than by recorded full release and 
satisfaction (e.g., by bond), the same must be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance 
to Licensor. Licensee, at its sole cost and expense, may contest by appropriate legal 
proceedings, promptly initiated and diligently conducted in good faith, the amount, validity 
or application in whole or in part of any lien if the effect of such contest or proceedings 
completely stays any enforcement of the lien or stop notice; provided that (a) Licensee shall 
indemnify Licensor and defend and hold Licensor harmless from and against all liability, 
costs, claims, damages, interest penalties and expense in connection with or arising out of 
98 of 575

--- page 99 ---
such contest, and (b) Licensee shall prosecute such contest in good faith and with due 
diligence to a final determination. 
 
7. Removal. If operation of the San Mateo County Express Lanes ends and the Facilities will 
no longer be used, Licensee agrees to remove the Facilities within one (1) year after the 
operation’s termination. 
 
If Licensee fails to vacate the Premises in accordance with this Agreement, in addition to 
any remedies available at law, including, without limitation, direct (actual) damages 
resulting from Licensee's failure to vacate the Premises as required hereunder, Licensor 
shall be entitled to specific performance of Licensee’s obligation to vacate the Premises at 
the time and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
8. As-Builts. Upon completion of the construction and installation of the Facilities, the 
Licensee shall promptly provide Licensor with one set of reproducible as-built, record 
drawings, reflecting construction and installation as actually accomplished. 
 
9. Location Markers and Marking. As deemed necessary by Licensor, Licensee shall furnish, 
install, and place signs to give notice and location of the Facilities. Licensee shall install 
permanent markers situated so as not to impede use of the Premises by the City, members of 
the public or currently franchised, licensed, or approved utilities on each side of the public 
right-of-way where the Facilities cross the right-of-way. The permanent markers placed 
inside the Facilities shall indicate the location of the Facilities, the name and address of 
Licensee, and a telephone contact number for information regarding the Facilities. Licensee 
shall conduct periodic inspections of the markers to ensure that such markers are legible and 
in place as required herein. Licensee shall provide access to the Facilities whenever 
requested to do so by Licensor, any franchised, licensed or approved utility, and any 
licensed contractor excavating near the Facilities. 
 
10. Indemnity. Licensee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City and its elected and 
appointed officials, agents and employees from any claims, demands, actions, suits, 
judgments, losses, damages, civil penalties, fines or other proceedings, including attorney’s 
fees (collectively “Claims”), incurred as a result of personal injury or property damage 
caused by the acts or omissions of Licensee, its employees, agents, representatives, 
contractors or subcontractors or arising from the failure of the Licensee, its employees, 
agents, representatives, contractors or subcontractors to perform any act or duty required of 
the Licensee herein. This indemnity is not applicable to the extent any Claims result from 
the sole negligence or willful misconduct of Licensor, its employees, agents, 
representatives, authorized contractors, successors or assigns. 
 
Neither Licensee nor its employees, agents, representatives, contractors or subcontractors 
shall have any obligation under this indemnity with respect to any Pre-Existing 
Environmental Condition. "Pre-Existing Environmental Condition" means the presence, 
emission, disposal, discharge or release of any hazardous material at, in, on, under or about 
the Property, however caused, existing at the commencement of this License, whether the 
nature and extent of such contamination is known or unknown at the time. However, 
Licensee shall indemnify Licensor against any claims, demands, actions, suits, judgments, 
losses, damages, civil penalties, or fines proximately caused in whole or in part by any 
99 of 575

--- page 100 ---
activities by Licensee, its agents, or subcontractor(s) which exacerbates any Pre-Existing 
Environmental Condition including the release of any hazardous materials as a result of 
Licensee’s use of the Premises. “Exacerbate” for purposes of this section means to make any 
Pre-Existing Environmental Condition worse by causing damages that would not have 
occurred but for Licensee’s use of the Premises. 
 
11. Insurance. During the Term of this License, Licensee shall obtain and maintain the 
insurance set forth in Exhibit B to this Agreement. 
 
12. Premises Damage. Licensee shall repair or pay for all actual damages to the Premises, 
caused by Licensee’s activities. 
 
13. Interference. Whenever, after Licensee installs the Facilities, Licensor determines that the 
Facilities are not located as indicated on as-built plans provided to Licensor by the 
Licensee, and the Facilities interfere with Licensor’s use of the Premises, Licensee shall 
immediately relocate the Facilities to another location approved in advance by Licensor, at 
Licensee’s sole expense, restoring the surface to its prior condition. 
 
If the Facilities are at the location indicated on the as-built plans provided to Licensor by 
Licensee and the Facilities interfere with Licensor’s use of the Premises, Licensor will 
provide written notice to Licensee that relocation of the Facilities is required and the 
Licensee shall relocate the Facilities within ninety (90) days of notice to the new location as 
approved in advance by Licensor, at Licensee’s sole expense, restoring the surface to its 
prior condition. 
 
14. Interference with Utility. Whenever, after Licensee installs the Facilities, Licensor 
determines that the Facilities are not located as indicated on as-built plans provided to 
Licensor by Licensee, the Facilities interfere with the reasonable use of the Premises by a 
utility holding a franchise, license, or approval issued prior to execution of this License, 
Licensee shall immediately relocate the facility to a location approved in advance by 
Licensor. None of the related costs shall be paid by Licensor. 
 
If the Facility is at the location indicated on the as-built plans provided to the City by the 
Licensee and it is alleged by a utility franchised, licensed, or approved by the City prior to 
the execution of this License that the Facility interferes with the previously-franchised 
utility’s use of the City’s Property, the Licensee shall make a good faith effort to negotiate 
with the previously-franchised, licensed, or approved utility to resolve any conflict. None of 
the related costs shall be paid by the City. The Licensee and the previously franchised, 
licensed, or approved utility shall determine between themselves who will pay the cost of 
relocation and restoration of the surface. [first in time, first in right] 
 
15. Installation by Third-Party. Unless required by a pre-existing agreement, state or federal 
law, applicable government regulation, or order from a court of competent jurisdiction, 
Licensor shall not voluntarily permit, authorize or approve any installation or construction 
by a third party that would deprive Licensee of, or unreasonably interfere with Licensee’s 
use and enjoyment of, the Premises during the term of the License. If any road, street, 
sidewalk, passageway, fire alarm, electric light or power line, waterline, storm drain, 
sanitary sewer line, gas line, telephone pole, telephone line or other utility, appurtenances or 
100 of 575

--- page 101 ---
facility is placed along or across the Facilities by any entity other than Licensor, and the 
construction requires the Licensee to relocate the Facilities, then that entity and the Licensee 
shall determine between themselves who will pay the cost of relocation and the restoration 
of the surface. None of the related costs shall be paid by Licensor. 
 
16. Waiver. The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or 
condition of this License shall not be deemed a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, 
ordinance, or law, or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance, or law. 
 
17. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this License, either party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The Parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. 
The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties. In the absence of an agreement, 
the Parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American 
Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon 
service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. The cost of mediation shall be 
borne equally by the Parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party. No party 
shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a 
good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the 
Parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the Parties. 
 
In the event of a legal action, the prevailing party in any dispute under this License shall be 
paid all of its costs and expenses including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees 
incurred in connection with enforcement of either party’s performance of all of its 
obligations under this License. 
 
18. Entire Agreement. This License contains the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to 
the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all other agreements or understandings, 
oral or written, whether previous to the execution hereof or contemporaneous herewith. 
This License shall not be amended or modified in any way except in writing, executed by 
the duly authorized representative of each of the Parties. The rights and remedies of the 
Parties shall be solely and exclusively those herein contained and in lieu of any remedies 
otherwise available at law or in equity. 
 
19. Counterparts. This License may be executed by facsimile or other electronic means 
(Docusign, PDF format, etc.) in any number of counterparts, each of which is an original, 
but all of which shall constitute one instrument. 
 
20. Binding Effect and Authority. This License is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the 
successors and/or assigns of the parties. Each individual executing this License on behalf of 
a party entity represents and warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute this 
License on behalf of that party. 
 
21. Compliance with Laws. Licensee, employees, representatives, consultants, contractors, 
volunteers and/or other persons shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws, 
ordinances, regulations, rules, and directives any governmental agencies with jurisdiction 
over the Premises and will not discriminate illegally against any person. 
101 of 575

--- page 102 ---
22. Venue and Governing Law. This License is governed by and construed and enforced in 
accordance with the laws of the State of California. In the event of litigation, venue will be 
in the County of San Mateo. 
 
23. Construction and Severability. If any part of this License is held to be invalid or 
unenforceable, the remainder of this License will remain valid and enforceable if the 
remainder of the License is reasonably capable of completion. 
 
24. Assignment. This License may not be assigned by either party without the prior written 
consent of the other, which shall not be unreasonable withheld, conditioned, or delayed. 
This License shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each party’s respective 
successors and permitted assigns. 
 
25. Approvals. Each of the Parties hereby represents and warrants that its execution of this 
Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action(s) and constitutes a valid and 
binding obligation of said party. 
 
26. Notice. For purposes of giving formal written notice to the Licensee, the Licensee’s address 
is: 
 
San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority 
555 County Center, 5th Floor 
Redwood City, CA 94063 
 
For purposes of giving formal, written notice to Licensor, Licensor’s address is: 
 
City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Written notice must be made either personally or by regular United States Mail. If the notice is 
mailed, the notice will be complete when deposited in the United States Mail, postage paid, and 
addressed as required in this section. Notice of change of address will be given in the same 
manner as required by this Section. 
 
 
[SIGNATURES TO FOLLOW ON NEXT PAGE] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 of 575

--- page 103 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this License Agreement is executed by the undersigned Parties. The 
Parties hereto further certify that the persons signing this License Agreement is duly authorized to do 
so.  
 
 
LICENSEE, San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority 
 
By:  
(Signature) 
Dated:    
 
 
Name: 
Title: 
 
 
LICENSOR, City of San Mateo 
 
 
By:  
(Signature) 
Dated:    
 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
Approved as to form: 
 
 
 
  
(Signature) 
Dated: 
 
Timothy Fox, Legal Counsel 
San Mateo County Express Lanes Joint Powers Authority 
 
 
 
 
  
(Signature) 
Dated: 
 
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS 
 
Exhibit A – Property and Facilities Location 
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirement 
103 of 575

--- page 104 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
Property and Facility Location 
104 of 575

--- page 105 ---
R/W 
L 
0 
z 
0 
0 
0 
<i: 
:r: 
TOLLING ITEM 
PHOTOELECTRIC 
ON TYPE 1-B ST 
TOLLING !TE 
TYPE III-AF 
_)ENCLOSURE NO. 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 833+00 to 834+00 
SB ROUTE 101 
NB ROUTE 101 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 2 of 15 
105 of 575
Across the street from 
APN: 035087280

--- page 106 ---
SB ROUTE 1 01 
''NE1" LINE 
NB ROUTE 1 01 
R/W 
w 
z 
0 
I- Q) 
l/) > 
><:<I'. 
_J 
0 
LL. 
9 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 839+00 to 842+00 
TOLLING ITEM #6: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EOUIPMEN 
ENCLOSURE NO. T12711 
TOLUNG ITEM #7: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
ON T1PE 1-B STANDARD 
S AMPHLETT Blvd 
........................................................... ................................ ...................................................................... 
Sheet 3 of 15 
106 of 575
Across the street from APN: 035066440

--- page 107 ---
CITY R/W 
S AMPHLETT Blvd 
I 
I 
SB ROUTE 101 
NB ROUTE 101 
TOLLING ITEM #8: 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 855+50 to 858+00 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT 
NCLOSURE NO. T13000 
CJ TY R/W 
R/W 
R/W 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 4 of 15 
107 of 575
In front of APN: 033323270

--- page 108 ---
(I) 
> 
<I: 
I 
I­
LO 
w 
LING.•ITE:M =11=9: 
RVICE /tOUlPMENT 
ENCLOSUR) /NO .iT 1 34 
6 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 873+50 to 875+00 
SB ROUTE 101 
NB ROUTE 101 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 5 of 15 
108 of 575
In front of APN: 033136070

--- page 109 ---
R/W 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 889+00 to 894+00 
TOLLING ITEM #11: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
TYPE 1- B STANDARD 
TOLLING ITEM #10: 
TOLLING ITEM #1 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 
TYPE II I- AF SE 
ci
?RVARIABLR .  TOLL ME
T ::: :::::j' />• ·•·· ::Sti
N
:·i
C
<
L
:
O
i.s\\
U
/
R 
i .....• ·
E
·.·.·.i··.··
N
·.··.·.o•:·::
T
:T 
1 
----- ········· ·· ·· ··· -- . ==<:.::.____..:.__···· ----- ········ ..... ----- ......... ..... __________ ········ ·==-
N AMPHLETT Blvd 
SB ROUTE 101 
2 
3 
NB ROUTE 101 
N BA YSHORE BI vd 
l/l 
l/l 
w 
0:: 
0.. 
>­u 
4 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 6 of 15 
109 of 575
In front of APN: 033191050
In front of APN: 033171140

--- page 110 ---
TOLLING ITEM/#13: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EOULPMENT 
ENCLOSURE NO T14011 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 914+00 to 915+00 
TOLLING ITEM #14: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
TYPE 1-B STANDARD 
915 
6 
SB ROUTE 101 
7 
NB ROUTE 1 01 
N AMPHLETT Blvd 
8 
N BAYSHORE Ave 
R/W 
_J (I) 
w> 
g<I: 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 7 of 15 
110 of 575
In front of APN: 033073250

--- page 111 ---
4 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
_: 
" 
,' 
/ 
TOLL I NG tTE M/'% 1 5:
TYPE I I J,-AF //SERVI
ENCLOSURE ,NO. T1
925 
N BAYSHORE Ave 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 924+00 to 925+00 
SB ROUTE 101 
7 
NB ROUTE 101 
9 
SCALE: 1" = 20'
R/W 
Sheet 8 of 15 
111 of 575
Across the street from APN: 033052060

--- page 112 ---
9 
(IJ > 
<( 
w 
<.:) w 
_J 
_J 0 
u 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 929+00 to 930+50 
N AMPHLETT Blvd 
SB ROUTE 101 
· ······ .. 4,, .......... ............ ...... ............ ...... ............ .......... ,fa, ....... ···c·.,,·.,c.-.c·.cc·.-.,·.,,·.,c.-.,·.cc·.-.c.cc.cc,c ·.cc,cc.cb
,cc.cc,cc ............. ................. '.'.N.E.1.' .. ' .... LJ,.N[ ..... . _ ...... -... _ ...... -.. . 
930 
TOLLING ITEM #17: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY 
TOLLING ITEM #16: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR ELECTRONIC TOLL SYSTEM 
2 
3 
NB ROUTE 101 
4 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 9 of 15 
112 of 575
Southwest corner of APN: 0292350020  
(West of Poplar Golf Course on N Bayshore Blvd)

--- page 113 ---
935 
u 
TOLLING ITEM #19: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY 
TOLLING ITEM #18: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR ELECTRONIC TOLL SYSTEM 
8 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 935+50 to 936+50 
N AMPHLETT Blvd 
SB ROUTE 101 
9 
NB ROUTE 101 
N BAYSHORE Blvd 
·········"):········································ ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,';;;.;-::;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; ....... ··········· $g_.-,---
940 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
heet 10 of 15 
113 of 575
Western quadrant of APN: 029350020

--- page 114 ---
SB ROUTE 101 
NB ROUTE 101 
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo 
From Station 963+00 to 966+00 
AIRPORT Blvd 
3 
)> 
;:o 
"1J 
0 
;:o 
--I 
OJ 
< 
Q. 
SCALE: 1" = 20' 
Sheet 11 of 15 
114 of 575

--- page 115 ---
115 of 575
Sheet 12 of 15
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo
TOLLING ITEM #1: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT  
ENCLOSURE NO. T10611
TOLLING ITEM #2: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
ON TYPE 1-B STANDARD
TOLLING ITEM #3: 
STEP-UP TRANSFORMER  
INSIDE NEMA 3R ENCLOSURE  
WITH SIDE LOUVERS
TOLLING ITEM #4: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
ON TYPE 1-B STANDARD
TOLLING ITEM #5: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT  
ENCLOSURE NO. T12600

--- page 116 ---
116 of 575
Sheet 14 of 15
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo
TOLLING ITEM #12: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT  
ENCLOSURE NO. T13700
TOLLING ITEM #11: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
ON TYPE 1-B STANDARD
TOLLING ITEM #10: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR VARIABLE TOLL MESSAGE SIGN 
TOLLING ITEM #13: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT  
ENCLOSURE NO. T14011
TOLLING ITEM #14: 
PHOTOELECTRIC UNIT 
ON TYPE 1-B STANDARD
TOLLING ITEM #15: 
TYPE III-AF SERVICE EQUIPMENT  
ENCLOSURE NO. T14300

--- page 117 ---
117 of 575
Sheet 15 of 15
Tolling Equipment within 
City of San Mateo
TOLLING ITEM #16: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR ELECTRONIC TOLL SYSTEM
TOLLING ITEM #17: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY
TOLLING ITEM #18: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR ELECTRONIC TOLL SYSTEM
TOLLING ITEM #19: 
FOUNDATION PAD FOR MODEL 332L CABINET 
FOR UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY

--- page 118 ---
118 of 575
Approx. 4,600ft south of E. Hillsdale Blvd
Approx. 3,800ft north of Marine Pkwy
1st photo view
2nd photo view
3rd photo view
Location: Southwest quadrant of 
APN: 040411999.

--- page 119 ---
EXHIBIT B 
 
Insurance Requirements 
Licensee, at its own cost and expense, will maintain the following insurance coverages once toll 
equipment is installed and owned by the Licensee, at Licensee's own cost and expense, the 
following policies of insurance or certificates or binders as necessary to represent that coverage as 
specified below is in place with companies doing business in California and with AM Best ratings 
of at least A-VII or better. The insurance shall at a minimum include: 
A. 
 General Liability, Worker’s Compensation 
 
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability insurance, shall cover liability arising from 
premises, operations, independent contractors, products-completed operations, personal and 
advertising injury, Bodily Injury, Broad Form Property Damage, and liability assumed under an 
insured contract [(including the tort liability of another assumed in a business contract)]. 
 
(a) Coverage afforded on behalf of the Licensor shall be primary insurance and any 
other insurance available to the Licensor under any other policies shall be excess 
insurance (over the insurance required by this Agreement). 
(b) Limits of liability: Contractor shall maintain commercial general liability (CGL) 
and, if necessary, commercial umbrella insurance with a limit of not less than $2,000,000 
each occurrence. 
(a) If the policy is a "claim made" type policy, the following should be included as 
endorsements: 
(i) 
The retroactive date shall be the effective date of this Agreement or a prior 
date. 
 
(ii) 
The extended reporting or discovery period shall not be l e s s than 
thirty-six (36) months. 
 
2. 
Worker's Compensation insurance as required by the laws of the State of 
California. Statutory coverage may include Employers Liability coverage with limits not less than 
$1,000,000. Licensee certifies that he/she is aware of the provisions of section 3700 of the 
California Labor Code, which requires every employer to provide Workers' Compensation coverage, 
or to undertake self-• insurance in accordance with the provisions of that Code. Licensee shall 
comply with the provisions of section 3700 of the California Labor Code before commencing 
performance of the work under this Agreement and thereafter as required by that code. 
119 of 575

--- page 120 ---
B. 
Terms Conditions and Endorsements 
 
The aforementioned insurance shall have all the following conditions: 
 
1. 1. Insured Status (Additional Insured): Licensee shall provide insured status using ISO 
endorsement CG 20 I O or its equivalent naming the Licensor City of San Mateo, its 
Councilmembers, directors, officers, agents and employees as insureds in its 
Comprehensive Commercial General Liability policy. If Licensee submits the ACORD 
Insurance Certificate, the insured status endorsement must be set forth on a CG 20 10 
(or equivalent). A STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL INSURED STATUS ON THE 
ACORD INSURANCE CERTIFICATE FORM IS INSUFFICIENT AND WILL BE 
REJECTED AS PROOF OF MEETING THIS REQUIREMENT; and 
 
2. Cancellation Notice: 30-day prior written notice of termination in coverage and 10-day 
prior written notice of cancellation for non-payment; 
 
3. Cross-liability coverage as provided under standard ISO forms' separation of insureds 
clause; and 
 
4. Certificate holder is to be the same person and address as indicated in the "Notices" 
section of this Agreement; and 
 
5. Insurer shall carry an insurance from an admitted company with a Best Rating f A- 
minus VII or better. 
 
C. 
Replacement of Coverage 
 
 
In the case of the breach of any of the insurance provisions of this Agreement, Licensor 
may, at the Licensor's option, take out and maintain at the expense of Licensee, such 
insurance in the name of Licensee as is required pursuant to this Agreement, and may 
deduct the cost of taking out and maintaining such insurance from any sums which may be 
found or become due to Licensee under this Agreement. 
 
D. 
Insurance Interpretation 
 
All endorsements, certificates, forms, coverage and limits of liability referred to herein 
shall have the meaning given such terms by the Insurance Services Office as of the date 
of this Agreement. 
120 of 575

--- page 121 ---
E. 
Proof of Insurance 
 
Licensee will be required to provide proof of all insurance required for the work prior to 
execution of the contract. Failure to provide the insurance proof requested or failure to 
do so in a timely manner shall constitute ground for rescission of the contract award. 
 
F. 
Subcontractors / Assignment 
Should Licensee subcontract or otherwise assign/delegate the operation of the San 
Mateo County Express Lanes Project required under this Agreement to any other party, 
it shall include all subcontractors/assignees/delegees as insureds under its policies or 
shall maintain separate certificates and endorsements for each 
subcontractor/assignee/delegee. As an alternative, License may require all 
subcontractors/assignees/delegees to provide at their own expense evidence of all the 
required coverages listed in this Schedule. If this option is exercised, both Licensor and 
Licensee shall be named as additional insured under the 
subcontractor's/assignee’s/delegee’s General Liability and Workers’ Compensation 
policies. All coverages for subcontractors/assignees/delegees shall be subject to all the 
requirements stated herein. Licensor reserves the right to perform an insurance audit 
during the term of this Agreement to verify compliance with requirements. 
G. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
 
Any deductible or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by Licensor. 
At the option of Licensor, either: the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductible or 
self-insured retentions as respects Licensor, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, or the Licensee shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to 
Licensor guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration 
and defense expenses. 
 
H. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
Licensee waives all rights against Licensor and its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, for recovery of damages to the extent these damages are covered 
by the forms of insurance coverage required above. 
 
I. 
Evaluation of Adequacy of Coverage 
 
Licensor maintains the right to modify, delete, alter or change these requirements, with 
reasonable notice, upon not less than ninety (90) calendar days prior written notice. 
121 of 575

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-7289
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Underground Flow Equalization System Temporary Construction Access – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an amendment to the agreement with the County of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of Property 
Rights in Support of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project in the amount of $328,760 in order 
to complete construction of the project at the San Mateo County Event Center; and authorize the City Manager to execute 
the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program includes improvements to the City’s sanitary sewer system to prevent sanitary sewer overflows. 
The Basins 2 and 3 Collection Systems Improvements project consists of upgrades to the sanitary sewer infrastructure that 
increase its capacity for the management of wet weather flow. The Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) is part 
of the Basins 2 and 3 effort and involves the construction of an underground wastewater holding facility on the San Mateo 
County Event Center property that increases the capacity of the City’s sewer system and is designed to prevent sanitary 
sewer overflows. 
In January 2020, the City and the County of San Mateo (County) entered into an agreement (Agreement) whereby the City 
purchased a permanent easement from the County for the City’s underground wastewater holding facility at the County 
Event Center.  The Agreement included a permit granted to the City allowing its temporary use of certain designated areas 
within the boundaries of the San Mateo County Event Center for temporary access to the UFES construction site that is 
apart from the permanent easement. These three designated areas are included as an exhibit to the attached amendment. 
The City paid $2,308,000 in exchange for temporary use of the designated areas for a term beginning April 13, 2020 and 
terminating April 13, 2023, with the provision that the City may request, in writing, an extension of six months at a cost 
calculated pro-rata on a weekly basis. 
The UFES Contractor (Contractor) expects continued need for Permit Area 1 (33,120 sq. ft.) for equipment and material 
staging necessary for completing construction through the end of November 2023. Use of Permit Area 1 needs to be 
extended. Permit Area 2 (7,717 sq. ft.) was for the tie-back installation to support the shoring wall, which is finished, and 
can be released at the expiration of the original permit.
Permit Area 3 (43,949 sq. ft.) is a haul route and use of the area needs to be extended. On October 21, 2019, the City 
Council adopted a resolution that established Conditions of Approval for the UFES project. Conditions of Approval #35 and 
#36 (Attachment 2) stipulate that the City will provide a haul route to and from Delaware Street during construction of the 
project to limit heavy construction traffic from routing along Saratoga Drive. The Contractor needs Permit Area 3 to 
maintain this haul route access to and from Delaware Street for concrete deliveries to construct the roof deck, equipment 
for construction support, haul backfill material for the tank, worker parking, and to restore the road after use. Use of the 
122 of 575

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
haul route and surface restoration is projected to be complete by mid-August 2023. After mid-August, the construction 
activities that require heavy construction traffic are scheduled to be complete and the main work site could then be 
accessed from Saratoga Drive. 
The initial April 13, 2023 termination date for the permit areas was predicated on the original advertisement and 
construction contract award schedule, followed by a best-case completion of the work. The construction contract award 
was delayed by one month to reject all bids and pursue a value-engineered and negotiated contract. After construction 
contract execution, the initial start of construction was delayed about two-and-a-half months due to COVID impacts on 
steel suppliers and a conflict with the AT&T on-site antenna power supply. Steel was essential to the first major step in 
construction: installation of the shoring. Weather delays and other Contractor schedule slippages have also extended the 
anticipated completion of the construction. 
Although the Agreement is directly between the County and City, the San Mateo County Exposition & Fair Associate Board 
of Directors, during their February 22, 2023 Board meeting, unanimously voted to recommend the County of San Mateo 
Board of Supervisors approve the extension. City staff have coordinated with the County’s Real Property Manager’s office 
to facilitate the County Board of Supervisors’ approval of the Amendment at their April 11, 2023 board meeting. 
The Amendment extends the use of Permit Areas 1 and 3 to dates as noted above. The cost for an extension of the permit 
area for the requested time is approximately $328,760 (Amendment Attachment 1 - Permit Extension Cost Calculation). 
Based on the continuing need for temporary access to the designated areas to support construction of the UFES, staff 
recommends approval of the Amendment. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements project (46s003) has sufficient budget to cover this expense. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this agenda report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is subject 
to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are included as 
part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the 
Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
Att 2 – Excerpt of “City of San Mateo Planning Application, Conditions of Approval, PA-2018-010 Underground Flow 
Equalization System” showing Conditions of Approval #35 and #36
Att 3 - San Mateo County Exposition & Fair Association Board of Directors’ Meeting – February 22, 2023, Excerpt from 
Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Tom Williams, Senior Engineer
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
123 of 575

--- page 124 ---
1 of 3 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
AND THE CITY OF SAN MATEO FOR THE ACQUISITION AND CONVEYANCE OF 
PROPERTY RIGHTS IN SUPPORT OF CITY OF SAN MATEO'S UNDERGROUND FLOW 
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT 
This Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement between the County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for 
the Acquisition and Conveyance of Property Rights in Support of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow 
Equalization System Project is entered into on __________,  2023, between the City of San Mateo, a 
municipal corporation ("City"), and the County of San Mateo, a political subdivision of the State of 
California ("County").  The parties hereto shall be referred to individually as a "Party" and collectively as 
the "Parties." 
R E C I T A L S: 
WHEREAS, City is undertaking a project referred to as the "Underground Flow Equalization 
System" project (the "Project") that involves the construction of an underground wastewater holding 
structure and related facilities to increase the capacity of the City's sewer system and prevent sanitary 
sewer overflows; 
WHEREAS, County owns certain real property situated in the County of San Mateo, State of 
California, at 2495 South Delaware Street, (APN:040-030-220) (the "Property"), on which the San Mateo 
County Event Center ("Event Center") operates an active fairgrounds and events facility; 
WHEREAS, an Agreement between the County and City for the acquisition and conveyance of 
property rights in support of the City’s Project was entered into on December 20, 2019 ("Agreement"), 
whereby County granted, and City purchased, an easement for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of a below-ground wastewater holding structure and related surface and sub-surface 
appurtenances on the Property, as more particularly identified and described herein;  
WHEREAS, the Agreement granted the City certain temporary rights to use identified portions 
of the Property for temporary access, construction, staging, and other approved activities necessary for the 
Project (“Permit”) and as more particularly described in the Agreement’s Exhibit B - Permit Terms and 
Conditions, incorporated herein by reference;  
WHEREAS, the Permit allowed the City temporary use of certain portions of the Property 
(“Premises”) commencing April 13, 2020 and terminating April 13, 2023, with an option to extend the 
use of the Premises for up to six months; 
WHEREAS, in order to finish construction of the Project, the City now desires to extend the use 
of certain portions of the Premises through November 30, 2023, which exceeds the six-month extension 
option by one and a half months; and 
WHEREAS, the County is agreeable to this Amendment to grant an extension, to support the 
completion of construction of the Project. 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions herein contained, 
and for other good and valuable consideration moving between the parties, City and County agree as 
follows: 
124 of 575

--- page 125 ---
2 of 3 
1.
AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT, SECTION 4: PERMIT PURCHASE PRICE.
The permit payment amount is revised as underlined, shown below:
In consideration of the temporary rights granted to City pursuant to Section 3 hereof, City shall 
pay to County a total of $ 2,308,000 [Two Million Three Hundred and Eight Thousand Dollars]. 
Pursuant to Exhibit B, Paragraph 4, the City shall pay an additional $328,760 [Three Hundred 
Twenty Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty Dollars] for a term extension for continued use of 
the Premises. Said payment shall be made to the San Mateo Exposition and Fair Association prior 
to the City's exercise of any rights granted pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
2.
AMENDMENT TO EXHIBIT B PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS, SECTION
4: TERM.
The term to use the Premises is revised as strikethrough and underlined, shown below:
City shall be permitted to use the Premises for the period commencing April 13, 2020 and
terminating April 13, 2023 (“Term”). use of each permit area, as identified in Exhibit B-1, as
follows (“Term”):
Permit Area #1: 
November 30, 2023 
Permit Area #2: 
April 13, 2023 
Permit Area #3:  
August 17, 2023 
The City anticipates the construction of the Project and the need for the permitted use of the 
Premises to conclude by the dates listed above. The County may, upon request of the City, 
approve an extension of the Term through the end of the 2023 calendar year. The price of any 
such extension shall be calculated pro-rata on a weekly basis and based on the length of the 
extension and the Permit Purchase Price. Any such request and/or approval must be delivered in 
writing. 
3.
The estimated cost of the extended Permit period, pursuant to Exhibit B, Section 4, is shown as
Attachment 1 to this Amendment, attached and incorporated herein.
4.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
125 of 575

--- page 126 ---
3 of 3 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Amendment by their duly authorized 
representatives to be effective on the date first above written. 
 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO: 
 
By: DAVID PINE, PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS 
 
 
Signature:  
__________________________________ 
SMC Resolution No. 077123(a) 
 
Date:   
__________________________________ 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
By: DREW CORBETT, CITY MANAGER 
 
 
Signature:  
__________________________________ 
 
Date:   
__________________________________ 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Patrice Olds, City Clerk 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
___________________________________ 
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney 
126 of 575

--- page 127 ---
Attachment 1 - Permit Extension Cost Calculation
Original Term
Calculated
Begin
End
Weeks
Permit Cost
4/13/2020
4/13/2023
156.43 $2,308,000.00
Term (weeks)
156
Cost per (sf)
$27.2215
Cost per (sf/wk
$0.1745
Total
Area Description
Amount (sq ft)
Date
Weeks
Cost
1 Staging area
33,120.00 11/30/2023
33.00
$190,717.84
2 Tie-backs
7,717.00
4/13/2023
0.00
$0.00
3 Haul Road
43,949.00
8/17/2023
18.00
$138,041.15
Total
84,786.00
$328,758.99
Extension 
127 of 575

--- page 128 ---
Attachment 2 - Excerpt of "City of San Mateo Planning Application, Conditions of Approval, 
PA-2018-010 Underground Flow Equalization System” showing Conditions of Approval #35 and #36
35. MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING - For material delivery vehicles equal
to, or larger than two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the 
applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
11.28.040 for the approval of the City Engineer. The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit 
trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this 
project shall be: 92 to S. Delaware Street to a site entrance at the southern corner of the Event Center 
parking lot; and a secondary route to be used during Event Center events along Saratoga Drive from 
Delaware Street to Hillsdale Blvd, accessing the project site from Saratoga Drive. Any queue of 
construction vehicles, including but not limited to haul and concrete trucks, will be on the Event Center 
site easements and not on City streets, to the maximum extent feasible. A letter from the applicant 
confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, 
and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities including but not 
limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and 
street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers will be kept 
off the public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. The applicant 
must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job-related dirt 
and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt 
into storm drains will be allowed. All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with 
applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of 
work. The applicant shall provide a construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect of City of San 
Mateo Planning Application Conditions of Approval PA-2018-010, 2495 S Delaware St, Underground 
Flow Equalization System As Approved on (insert date after City Council approval) Page 15 of 18 
construction worker parking in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of 
workers that will be present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate where 
sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said 
plan shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with 
at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in suspension of the City 
permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
36. TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT - Prior to the start of construction, and to be utilized
throughout the construction phase, the applicant shall acquire a temporary construction easement from 
the County of San Mateo to manage truck routes. The temporary construction easement shall facilitate 
the management of haul routes as stipulated in COA#36 (actually refers to #35) Material Hauling and 
Construction Worker Parking. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
128 of 575

--- page 129 ---
SAN MATEO COUNTY EXPOSITION & FAIR ASSOCIATION 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ MEETING – FEBRUARY 22, 2023 
EXCERPT FROM MINUTES  
VI. Update and Potential Action Regarding Extension of
Temporary Easement Agreement for City of San Mateo’s
Underground Flow Equalization Systems (UFES) Project
The City of San Mateo’s request for an extension of the
temporary easement agreement with the County of San
Mateo for the UFES project was reviewed. Director Tucker
made a motion to approve the extension agreement as
presented, seconded by Director Foust, and unanimously
carried with a roll call vote.
Attachment 3 - San Mateo County Exposition & Fair Association Board of Directors’ 
Meeting – February 22, 2023, Excerpt from Minutes 
129 of 575

--- page 130 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 23-7300
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Police Dispatcher Lateral Hiring Recruitment Incentive Program – Authorization 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the provision of a police dispatcher lateral hiring recruitment incentive program to include 
a $15,000 recruitment incentive for up to five (5) highly qualified and experienced lateral dispatchers, in a cumulative 
amount not to exceed $75,000; 40 hours of vacation time upon completion of training; and a $3,000 incentive for per diem 
dispatchers who work a minimum of 500 hours in two years. 
BACKGROUND:
Attracting new and qualified applicants remains an ongoing challenge for many positions in law enforcement, including 
public safety dispatchers.  The San Mateo Police Department has struggled to maintain adequate staffing of dispatchers 
due to attrition from retirements and resignations; challenging rates of successful completion of training by entry-level 
dispatchers; and high turnover related to the cost of living in the greater Bay Area.  Hiring and retaining entry level dispatchers 
has proven to be especially difficult. Between the extensive background check, the rigorous training program, and the 
demanding nature of the profession, the unit has seen a low retention rate of new hires. Over the last five years, the unit has 
retained 3 out of 13 entry-level dispatchers who entered the training program. All lateral dispatchers hired during that same 
time frame completed training and continue to work for the Police Department.  
Staff recommends the City enact a lateral police dispatcher incentive program to attract highly qualified and experienced 
dispatchers.  The program would offer qualified applicants the opportunity to receive up to a $15,000 hiring bonus, as 
well as the provision of 40 hours of vacation time upon completion of training (as loss of vacation hours is a deterrent for 
lateral applicants). To qualify to receive this incentive, the lateral applicant must meet the following criteria:  be an active 
law enforcement dispatcher; possess a Basic Dispatch Certificate from the California Commission on Peace Officer 
Standards and Training (POST); and have at least two years of full-time experience as a California law enforcement 
dispatcher.  At the time of hiring, the employee would be asked to provide a paystub or documentation from their prior 
employer to demonstrate a balance of at least 40 hours of discretionary leave in their time bank at separation.  Payment 
of the incentive would be provided to employees hired in the Dispatcher II position and based on milestones structured in 
a manner intended to increase the probability that the dispatcher will stay with SMPD for at least three years.   
$15,000 / 3 Year Incentive Program for 
Lateral Dispatcher II Merit Employees
Incentive
Timeline
$5,000
Completion of Training
40 Hours 
Vacation Time
Upon Completion of Training with Proof of 
Leave Bank Values from Prior Agency
$5,000
Upon Completion of Probation
$5,000
36 months
130 of 575

--- page 131 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Many agencies rely on the use of per diem dispatchers to help fill gaps and maintain minimum staffing levels.  This is 
challenging as qualified per diem dispatchers are in high demand and are limited to working 960 hours per year.  Staff 
recommends incentivizing per diem dispatchers by offering a $3,000, one-time bonus for per diem employees in the 
Dispatcher II position who work more than 500 hours within two years of hire.
$3,000 Per Diem Dispatcher II Incentive
Incentive
Timeline
$3,000
Completion of 500 hours worked within 
2 years of hire. 
Programs to entice law enforcement applicants were once considered uncommon, but due to universal recruitment challenges 
have now become more standard in the law enforcement industry.  To remain competitive and maintain the ability to attract 
qualified lateral applicants, staff requests authorization to enact the dispatcher lateral hiring recruitment incentive program.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The cost of the lateral hiring bonus is offset by savings associated with reduced training time and reduced need to backfill 
positions using overtime.  The cost can be accommodated within the Police Department’s budget appropriation with no 
additional impact to the General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Kelly O’Keefe, Police Technical Services Administrator
kokeefe@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7709
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
131 of 575

--- page 132 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
AUTHORIZING THE DISPATCHER LATERAL HIRING RECRUITMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM 
WHEREAS, the Police Department wishes to offer a Lateral Hiring Recruitment Incentive Program for up 
to five (5) lateral Dispatcher II merit positions, providing highly qualified lateral dispatchers the opportunity to 
receive up to a $15,000 hiring bonus as well as 40 hours of vacation time; and
WHEREAS, the Police Department wishes incentivize experienced per diem dispatchers to work for the 
City of San Mateo by offering a $3,000, one-time bonus, for employees in the per diem Dispatcher II position 
who work more than 500 hours within two years of hire; and 
WHEREAS, to qualify to receive the incentive, applicants must meet specific criteria such as: being an 
active law enforcement dispatcher; possessing a Basic Dispatch Certificate from the California Commission on 
Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST); and having at least two years of full-time experience as a California 
law enforcement dispatcher; and 
WHEREAS, payment of the incentive is made in increments and based on milestones structured in a 
manner intended to increase the probability to retain the dispatcher for at least three years (merit Dispatcher II) 
or for at least two years (per diem Dispatcher II), as detailed in Exhibit A which is attached hereto and 
incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the cost of the lateral hiring bonus is offset by savings associated with reduced training time 
and reduced need to backfill positions using overtime and can be accommodated within the Police Department’s 
budget with no additional impact to the general fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The Dispatcher Lateral Hiring Recruitment Incentive Program as described below and in Exhibit A is 
approved:
a.
For Dispatcher II Merit positions:
i.
$15,000 recruitment incentive for up to five (5) highly qualified and experienced 
lateral Dispatcher II positions, in a cumulative amount not to exceed $75,000; and
ii.
40 hours of vacation time upon completion of training, and upon proof of leave 
balances from prior agency.
b.
For per diem Dispatcher II positions:
i.
$3,000 incentive for Dispatcher II per diem employees who work more than 500 
hours within two years of hire.
132 of 575

--- page 133 ---
EXHIBIT A
$15,000 / 3 Year Incentive Program for 
Lateral Dispatcher II Merit Employees
Incentive
Timeline
$5,000
Completion of Training
40 Hours 
Vacation Time
Upon Completion of Training with Proof of 
Leave Bank Values from Prior Agency
$5,000
Upon Completion of Probation
$5,000
36 months
$3,000 Per Diem Dispatcher II Incentive
Incentive
Timeline
$3,000
Completion of 500 hours worked within 
2 years of hire. 
133 of 575

--- page 134 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9100
File ID: 23-7302
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Winter Storms – Designation of Authority for Expense Reimbursement for Public Assistance Cost Recovery
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to designate the City Manager, Finance Director, and Assistant City Manager as agents of the City of 
San Mateo for the purposes of obtaining federal and/or state financial assistance for expenses incurred during the winter 
storm events.
BACKGROUND:
On January 14, 2023, President Biden declared the California Severe Winter Storms a major disaster making federal 
disaster aid available to eligible counties within the State, including San Mateo County. As a result, the City of San Mateo is 
eligible to submit a Request for Public Assistance to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the 
California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services (CalOES) for reimbursement for costs incurred during the period from 
December 27, 2022 to January 31, 2023 related to the winter storm events. Eligible costs include debris removal activities, 
emergency protective measures, and repairs to damaged public facilities. 
In order to be eligible to submit reimbursement requests, the City must adopt a resolution designating authorized agents 
to engage with FEMA and CalOES. The proposed resolution, included as Attachment 1 to this report, designates the City 
Manager, Finance Director, and Assistant City Manager as the City’s agents. This designation is for the position title, as 
opposed to specific individuals, and therefore allows for changes in personnel. The resolution will be valid for a period of 
three years from the date signed, which will allow the City to seek cost recovery for any additional declared disasters that 
occur within that time period, including potential subsequent storm events.
The cost recovery process through FEMA and CalOES is very rigorous and can take multiple years to conclude. As a result, 
the City should not plan for any potential reimbursements to be included in our upcoming budget for next fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The action of approving the designation of authorized agents has no direct impact to the City’s budget. However, it allows 
the City to potentially receive reimbursements for costs incurred during the winter storm events for debris removal, 
emergency protective measures, and repairs to damaged facilities, which will potentially provide some relief from the 
financial impact of the winter storms.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This designation of agents is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
134 of 575

--- page 135 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
135 of 575

--- page 136 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
DESIGNATING THE CITY MANAGER, THE FINANCE DIRECTOR, AND THE ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER AS 
AGENTS OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO FOR PURPOSES OF OBTAINING FEDERAL AND/OR STATE 
ASSISTANCE FOR EXPENSES INCURRED AS A RESULT OF THE WINTER STORM EVENTS 
 
 
WHEREAS, on January 14, 2023 President Biden made a Major Disaster Declaration for the California 
sever winter storm events that occurred in December 2022 and January 2023; and  
 
WHEREAS, locations within the County of San Mateo are eligible to apply for public assistance to cover 
storm-related expenses due to damages incurred and emergency protective measures taken; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo incurred costs as a result of the winter storm events and will submit a 
“Request for Public Assistance” to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the California 
Governor’s Office of Emergency Services (CalOES); and 
WHEREAS, CalOES requires the City to adopt a resolution designating an agent or agents for the 
purposes of engaging with FEMA and CalOES for potential reimbursement; and 
WHEREAS, the City has opted to make the designation of agents effective for any future disaster 
declarations that may occur within a three-year period from the adoption of the resolution; and 
 
WHEREAS, the designation of agents is not a project of CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5). 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:  
 
1. The Designation of Applicant’s Agent Resolution for Non-State Agencies, included herein as Exhibit 
A,  which designates the City Manager, Finance Director, and Assistant City Manager as the City of 
San Mateo’s agents is approved. 
 
 
136 of 575

--- page 137 ---
DESIGNATION OF APPLICANT'S AGENT RESOLUTION FOR NON-STATE AGENCIES
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE 
OF THE 
(Governing Body) 
(Name of Applicant) 
THAT 
, OR 
(Title of Authorized Agent) 
, OR 
(Title of Authorized Agent) 
(Title of Authorized Agent) 
is hereby authorized to execute for and on behalf of the 
 , 
 (Name of Applicant) 
a public entity established under the laws of the State of California, this application 
and to file it with the California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services for the 
purpose of obtaining federal financial assistance for any existing or future grant 
program, including, but not limited to any of the following: 
-
Federally declared Disaster (DR), Fire Mitigation Assistance Grant (FMAG),
California State Only Disaster (CDAA), Immediate Services Program (ISP), Hazard
Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP), Building Resilient Infrastructure and
Communities (BRIC), Legislative Pre-Disaster Mitigation Program (LPDM), under
-
Public Law 93-288 as amended by the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act of 1988, and/or state financial assistance under the
California Disaster Assistance Act.
-
Flood Mitigation Assistance Program (FMA), under Section 1366 of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968.
-
National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program (NEHRP) 42 U.S. Code 7704 (b)
((2) (A) (ix) and 42 U.S. Code 7704 (b) (2) (B) National Earthquake Hazards
Reduction Program, and also The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, Div. F,
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2018, Pub. L. No. 115-141
-
California Early Earthquake Warning (CEEW) under CA Gov Code – Gov, Title 2,
Div. 1, Chapter 7, Article 5, Sections 8587.8, 8587.11, 8587.12
That the 
, a public entity established under the 
(Name of Applicant) 
laws of the State of California, hereby authorizes its agent(s) to provide to the 
Governor’s Office of Emergency Services for all matters pertaining to such state 
disaster assistance the assurances and agreements required.
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR'S OFFICE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES 
DESIGNATION OF APPLICANT'S AGENT RESOLUTION
NON-STATE AGENCIES
OES-FPD-130 (Rev. 10-2022) 
RECOVERY DIRECTORATE 
FINANCIAL PROCESSING DIVISION
Cal OES ID No: _____________
      OES-FPD-130 
Rev. 10-2022 
Page 1 of 4
081-68252
City Manager
Finance Director
Assistant City Manager
City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
City Council
137 of 575

--- page 138 ---
Please check the appropriate box below 
This is a universal resolution and is effective for all open and future 
disasters/grants declared up to three (3) years following the date of approval. 
This is a disaster/grant specific resolution and is effective for only  
disaster/grant number(s):      
Passed and approved this  __day of 
, 20 
(Name and Title of Governing Body Representative) 
(Name and Title of Governing Body Representative) 
(Name and Title of Governing Body Representative) 
CERTIFICATION 
I, 
, duly appointed and 
 of 
(Name) 
      (Title) 
, do hereby certify that the above is a true and 
(Name of Applicant) 
correct copy of a resolution passed and approved by the 
 (Governing Body) 
of the 
on the 
day of 
, 20   . 
 (Name of Applicant) 
(Signature) 
(Title) 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR'S OFFICE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES 
DESIGNATION OF APPLICANT'S AGENT RESOLUTION
NON-STATE AGENCIES
OES-FPD-130 (Rev. 10-2022) 
RECOVERY DIRECTORATE 
FINANCIAL PROCESSING DIVISION
      OES-FPD-130 
Rev. 10-2022 
Page 2 of 4
City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo

3
April
23
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Patrice Olds
City Council
3
April
23
City Clerk
City Clerk
138 of 575

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-1311
File ID: 23-7315
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
365 2nd Avenue – Lease Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the 3rd amendment to the lease between the City and Waynee May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung, members of Sweet 
Cheeks Puffs, LLC, DBA Beard Papa’s, for the City owned property at 365 2nd Avenue to assign the lease to Genius 
Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong, authorize an increased security deposit amount of $1,949.56, and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On May 1, 2017, the City Council approved a 2nd amendment to the lease and a seven-year lease extension to Waynee 
May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung, members of Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC, to operate Beard Papa‘s, a puff pastry dessert shop 
located on 365 2nd Avenue on the ground floor of the Main Street Garage. Waynee May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung, owners 
of the store, have decided to retire from the business and sell their financial interests to Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis 
Tong. The new owner will continue to operate the business as Beard Papa’s. The lease will terminate on November 30, 
2026, and no lease extensions remain. Thereafter, if the owners wish to continue operating the business at that site, they 
will need to negotiate a new lease with the City.
The City’s commercial property manager has performed the due diligence of evaluating Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis 
Tong’s credit history. The property manager concluded that the assignee meets the financial requirements to assume the 
lease. Under the terms of the lease, the City may not unreasonably withhold its consent to a lease assignment. 
Staff proposes a 3rd amendment to the lease to assign the lease to the new lessee. The lease amendment also includes 
language clarifying that prevailing wages must be paid for any improvements to the property because it is City-owned and 
requiring a security deposit of $1,949.56, equivalent to one month’s base rent. All other terms of the lease will remain the 
same. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The lease amendment will have no budget impact. The lease will generate approximately $88,120 in revenue over the 
course of the remaining 43 months term. Commercial property revenue is deposited in the General Fund and has been 
used to offset the City’s expenses for operation, maintenance, and improvements to Downtown parking facilities and for 
Downtown street cleaning services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This lease amendment is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, 
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
139 of 575

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Lease Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
140 of 575

--- page 141 ---
3rd AMENDMENT TO LEASE 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO (“LANDLORD”) AND SWEET CHEEKS PUFFS, LLC 
(“TENANT”), DBA BEARD PAPA’S, AND ASSIGNMENT OF LEASE TO  
GENIUS LEARNING, LLC AND DENNIS TONG 
 
 
     This ASSIGNMENT AND THIRD AMENDMENT is made on _____________________ 
between the City of San Mateo, Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC, a California limited liability company, 
DBA Beard Papa’s (“Assignor”) and Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong (jointly known as 
“Assignee”). 
 
RECITALS.  
 
A:  The City of San Mateo (“Landlord”), and Assignor as tenant, initially entered into a 
written lease dated July 1, 2009 and 1ST amendment on December 12, 2014, and 2nd  
amendment on May 25, 2017 for the premises located in the City of San Mateo commonly 
known as 365 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401. 
 
 
B:  Waynee May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung members of Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC 
desire to assign all their rights, title and interest in the amended Lease currently to Genius 
Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong, and Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong and Genius 
Learning, LLC wishes to assume the amended Lease. 
 
C:  LANDLORD consents to the proposed assignment on the condition set forth in this 
Amendment. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION.  Assignor hereby assigns and transfers to 
Assignee all its right, title, and interest in the Lease and Assignee accepts the 
assignment and assumes and agrees to perform, from the date the assignment 
becomes effective, as a direct obligation to Landlord, all provisions of the lease. 
 
2. SECURITY DEPOSIT. Assignee agrees to pay Landlord $1,949.56 as a security 
deposit, which can be used by the Landlord for unpaid rent, and any necessary 
maintenance or repairs at the expiration of the tenancy. Assignor will receive back 
the original security deposit in the amount of $1,282.50 from the Landlord. 
 
 
3. NOTICE. 
 
      Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong 
365 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401  
Telephone: 650-666-7726 
Email: geniuslearnacademy@gmail.com 
 
 
 
141 of 575

--- page 142 ---
4. TENANT IMPROVEMENTS.  This tenant improvement clause is hereby added to the 
Lease to read “Tenant shall require its contractor to comply with all state prevailing 
wages requirements for all Tenant Improvements constructed on the Premises 
including but not limited to, the payment of prevailing wages, certified payroll 
submissions, overtime and work hour requirements, apprenticeship obligations, and 
contractor registration with the Department of Industrial Relations.” 
 
5. LANDLORD CONSENT. Landlord consents to the assignment of this amended 
lease.  
 
6. Except for the changes shown in this assignment and amendment, the original Lease 
and Amendments remain in full force and effect. 
 
7. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ASSIGNMENT. May 1, 2023. Or if escrow under the 
Business Purchase Agreement between Waynee May Yeung and Ying Kit Yeung 
members of Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC and Genius Learning LLC and Dennis Tong 
closes after May 1, 2023, on the date of the close of that escrow. 
 
 
 
 
Executed at San Mateo, California, on the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNOR                 
 
 
         ASSIGNEE                           
 
 
 
____________________  
                    ________________________  
    
Waynee May Yeung 
Dennis Tong 
      Member 
 
 
 
 
         Managing Member   
Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC 
 
         Genius Learning, LLC 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
         __________________________          
      Ying Kit Yeung 
 
 
 
          Dennis Tong 
      Member 
      Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC       
 
 
 
 
142 of 575

--- page 143 ---
CONSENT OF LANDLORD 
 
The undersigned is the Landlord in the lease described in the above assignment and 
consents to the assignment to Genius Learning, LLC and Dennis Tong jointly waiving none 
of the Landlord’s rights under the existing Lease. 
 
 
 
LANDLORD 
 
 
      
 
 
City of San Mateo 
             
 
By ________________________ 
 
 
   
    
   
Drew Corbett, City Manager  
 
       
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:  
 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
 
 
  
Assistant City Attorney 
 
  
  
 
Exhibit A: Original, 1st, and 2nd Lease Agreements 
143 of 575

--- page 144 ---
Genius Learning LLC 
 Board ResoluƟon 
 This board resoluƟon is made and entered on March 1, 2023  by and between the following 
 ParƟes of Genius Learning LLC: 
 Dennis Tong, Managing Member 
 Linda Tong, Member 
 All parƟes agree for Dennis Tong to represent Genius Learning to apply for the Lease at 365 2nd 
 Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 
 ___________________________ 
 Date_________________ 
 Linda Tong, Member 
 ___________________________ 
 Date_________________ 
 Dennis Tong, Managing Member 
3/1/2023
3/1/2023
144 of 575

--- page 145 ---
ASSIGNMENT AND SECOND AMENDMENT OF LEASE 
This Agreement is made on 'IA.lei %
2017, between Peninsula Puffs LLC, 
A California Corporation, DBA Beard Papa's Sweets Cafe ("Assignor' ) and 
Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC, a California limited liability company, DBA Beard Papa's Sweets 
Cafe ("Assignee"). 
RECITALS. 
A: The City of San Mateo ("Lessor''), and Assignor as tenant, entered into a written 
lease dated July 1, 2009 and amended on December 12, 2014 ("The Lease"), in which 
Lessor leased to Assignor and Assignor leased from Lessor premises located in the City of 
San Mateo commonly known as 365 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401. 
B: Assignor desires to assign all his rights, title and interest in the Lease currently to 
Assignee. 
C: Lessor consents to the proposed assignment on the condition set forth in this 
assignment. 
The parties agree as follows: 
1. ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION. Assignor assigns and transfers to Assignee all
its right, title, and interest in the lease and Assignee accepts the assignment and
assumes and agrees to perform, from the date the assignment becomes effective, as
a direct obligation to Lessor, all provisions of the lease.
2. Grant of Option. Provided Tenant/Assignee has not been late in payment of rent
more than 2 times in a calendar year, specific to the tenant, tenant shall have one (1)
option to extend the Term of this Lease ("Extension Option") beyond the Expiration
Date for an additional period of Eighty Four Months (84) months ( "Extended Term")
by giving Landlord written notice of such election ("Option Exercise Notice") not
earlier than 24 months nor later than 6 months prior to the expiration of the Lease
term, The Option Exercise Notice shall be given by certified or registered mail (return
receipt requested) or by Federal Express, United Parcel Service or other overnight
courier service which obtains personal signatures upon delivery. Such notice shall
be deemed given upon receipt by the Landlord or upon refusal to accept delivery at
Landlord's address for notice. If Landlord does not receive the Option Exercise
Notice within the time period provided above, all rights under the Extension Option
shall terminate. Tenant shall have no right to exercise the Extension Option
notwithstanding any provision in the grant to the contra1y while Tenant is in default of
this Lease beyond any applicable cure period.
3.
Monthly Base Rent During Extended Terms. Monthly Base Rent for the First
Extended Term shall be One Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty Four & 12/100
($1,784.12) with annual increases of three percent (3%) per year thereafter.
Exhibit A
145 of 575

--- page 146 ---
4. Notices:
Assignee:
Wynee May Yeun and Ying Kit Yeung
(385 2"4 Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 Telephone 510-717-8049)

5, EFFECTIVE DATE OF ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of the lease shall take effect
upon signatures of all parties and Assignor shall give possession to the Assignee on
that date.

6. Except for the changes shown in this assignment and amendment, the original Lease
and Amendment remain in effect

Executed at Y Wy a GO , California, on the day and year first above written.

ASSIGNEE ASSIGNOR

Sweet Cheeké Buffs, LLC —_

Wynee MayYeung Mary Rose Garcia-Cruz,
Peninsula Puffs LLC

CONSENT OF LESSOR
The undersigned is the Lessor in the lease described in the above assignment and consents
to the lease’s assignment to Sweet Cheeks Puffs, LLC waiving none of the Lessor’s rights
under the existing Lease.

LANDLORD

Approved as to Form: Attest: bt lle

abrielle Whelan Patrice foo] UG?
Assistant City Attorney City Clerk

146 of 575


--- page 147 ---
ORIGINAL 
AMENDMENT NO. ONE TO THE LEASE 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
PENINSULA PUFFS LLC, A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION 
DBA BEARD PAPA'S SWEETS CAFÉ 
TO EXTEND TERM 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo ("City"), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and Peninsula Puff LLC, a California Corporation dba Beard Papa's Sweet 
Café ("Beard Papa"), entered into a lease for retail space ("Lease") on September 1, 
2009; and 
WHEREAS, the initial Lease term is five years; and 
WHEREAS, Section 6 (C) of the Lease provided that the Lease by be extended 
for another five years, except that the rent may be increased; 
WHEREAS, City and Beard Papa wish to extend the Lease term for an additional 
five years. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1. 
Section 2 of the Lease is amended to read: 
Effective December 1, 2014 the new base rent schedule is as follows: 
December 1st, 2014 through November 30th, 2015 — $1,539.00 per month 
December 1st, 2015 through November 30th, 2016 — $1,585.17 per month 
December 1st, 2016 through November 30th, 2017 —$1,632.73 per month 
December 1st, 2017 through November 30th, 2018 —$1,681.71 per month 
December 1st, 2018 through November 20th, 2019 — $1,732.16 per month 
2. 
Sections 6 A of the Lease is amended to read: 
The lease for the above location expires on November 20th, 2019. 
QACDDEconomie Development 2013-present (MC)1DT Lease Agreements \Beard Papas \Second LeaselAttachment 3. City of San 
Mateo - Peninsula Puffs, LLC Proposed Amendment to Lease.doe 
147 of 575

--- page 148 ---
PENINSULA PUFF LLC 
dba Beard Papa's Swlet Cafe 
Mary Rose Gaivia-Ciruz, Peninsula Puffs LLC 
•
Date: 	
i( 	
' ZjL 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Date: 
hhi 8640, 
Patrice Olds, City Clerk 
The remaining terms of the Lease remain in full force and effect. 
Approved as to Form: 
ft-0 
Q:\CDD\Eonomic Development 2013-present (MC)DT Lease Agreementsliearcl Papas\ Second LeaselAttachment 3. City of San 
Mateo - Peninsula Puffs. LLC Proposed Amendment to Lease.doc 
148 of 575

--- page 149 ---
Date July 1, 2009 
City of San Mateo ("Landlord") and Peninsula Puffs LLC, a California corporation, DBA Beard Papa's Sweets Cafe 
("Tenant") agree as follows: 
1. PROPERTY: Landlord rents to Tenant and Tenant rents from Landlord, the real property and improvements 
described as: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94401 ("Premises"), approximately 513 square feet, which 
comprise approximately 13% of the total square footage of rentable space in the entire property. See Exhibit A 
for a further description of the Premises. 
2. BASE RENT: Tenant agrees to pay a monthly Base Rent ("Base Rent") at the rate of $1,282.50 per month, for 
the first 12 months of the agreement. Commencing with the 13th month, and upon expiration of each 12 months 
thereafter, Base Rent shall be increased annually by 3% or the amount of any increase in the U.S. Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor for All Urban Consumers ("CPI") for 
San Francisco Bay Area (CPI-U SF/Oakland/San Jose), whichever is higher. However, in no event will an 
annual rent increase exceed 6%. If the CPI is no longer published, then the adjustment to Base Rent shall be 
based on an alternate index that most closely reflects the CPI. 
3. RENT: 
A. Definition: "Rent" shall mean all monetary obligations of Tenant to Landlord under the terms of this 
agreement, except security deposit. 
B. Payment: Rent shall be paid to City of San Mateo at 330 W. 20 th Avenue, San Mateo CA 94403, to 
the attention of: City of San Mateo, EDBA, 330 West 20 th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 Attn: 
EDBA or at any other location specified by Landlord in writing to Tenant 
C. Timing: Rent is payable in advance on the 1st day of each calendar month, and is delinquent 10 days 
after that 
4. ADDITIONAL COMMON AREA MAINTENANCE CHARGES: In addition to Base Rent, which the 
parties intend to be absolutely net, Tenant agrees to pay its proportionate share of Landlord's estimated monthly 
property operating expenses, including but not limited to, common area maintenance, consolidated utility and 
service bills, insurance, and real estate taxes, (collectively "CAM charges"), based on the ratio of the square 
footage of the Premises to the total square footage of the rentable space in the entire property. Tenant shall pay 
one-twelfth (1/12th) of the annual estimated CAM charges with each monthly Base Rent installment, based on 
the Landlord's estimation of the actual cost. CAM charges shall not include capital expenditures unless such 
expenditures are amortized over a period which is in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practices 
for federal income tax purposes. 
5. TENANT OPERATING EXPENSES: Tenant agrees to pay for all utilities and services directly billed to 
Tenant including, but not limited to, water, sewer, electricity, garbage, and telephone. Tenant shall be 
responsible and directly pay for all other charges not covered in CAM charges including, but not limited too, 
City permit fees, fees for any regulatory licenses or inspections, or other governmental charges such as 
unsecured business property tax, possessory interest tax, or ABC permits. The property interests created by this 
Lease may be subject to property taxation and Tenant, in whom the possessory interest is vested, will be 
responsible for the timely payment of any property taxes levied on such possessory interest. Tenant agrees to 
pay before delinquency all lawful taxes, assessments, fees or charges which at any time may be levied by the 
state, county, city or any tax or assessment levying body againit the transfer of the leasehold interest hereunder 
upon recordation or otherwise, or upon any activity carried on under this Lease, any interest in this Lease or any 
possessory right which Tenant may have in or to the Premises or the Premises by reason of its use or occupancy 
thereof or otherwise. 
149 of 575

--- page 150 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
6. TERM: The term begins on 
(Check A or B): 
("Commencement Date"), 
I X A. Lease: and shall terminate after 5 years on 	
at 6:00 PM . Any holding over 
after the term of this agreement expires, with Landlord's consent, shall create a month-to-month 
tenancy that either party may terminate as specified in section 6B. Rent shall be at a rate equal to two 
times the rent for the immediately preceding month, payable in advance. All other terms and 
conditions of this agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 
L_I B. Month-To-Month: and continues as a month-to-month tenancy. Either party may terminate the 
tenancy by giving written notice to the other at least 30 days prior to the intended termination date, 
subject to any applicable local laws. Such notice may be given on any date. 
X IC. Renewal Or Extension Terms: 
(i) Grant of Options: Landlord hereby grants to Tenant one (1) Option (the "Option") to extend the 
Tenn of this Lease. The Option shall be for an additional term of five (5) Years and shall conimentie 
upon the expiration of the original Term. The Option is expressly conditioned on the satisfaction of 
both of the following: (I) the lack of an Event of Default on the part of Tenant, both at the time the 
Option is exercised and at the time the term of the Option would commence, and (2) the lack of three 
or more Events of Default on the part of the Tenant during the initial Term. This condition may be 
waived by Landlord in its sole discretion and may not be used by Tenant as a means to negate the 
effectiveness of Tenant's exercise of the Option. 
(ii) Manner of Exercise: Tenant may exercise the Option only by giving Landlord written notice not 
less than six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Term of this Lease (as it may be extended) and 
not more than twelve (12) months prior to the expiration of the Term of this Lease (as it may be 
extended). If Tenant fails to validly exercise the Option by the date required, then the Option 
automatically shall lapse and thereafter Tenant shall have no right to exercise the Option. 
(iii) Terms and Rent: All terms and conditions of the Lease, as amended from time to time by the 
parties in accordance with the provisions of the Lease with the exception of the amount of Base Rent 
paid to Landlord by Tenant, shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply during the Option 
term. If the Option is exercised, then the Base Rent for the Premises during such Option term shall be 
determined as follows: 
a) Landlord and Tenant shall have thirty (30) days after Landlord receives the Option 
Notice within which to agree on the Base Rent for the Option term based upon the then fair market 
rental value of the Premises as defined below. If the parties agree on the Base Rent (including any 
periodic adjustments in Base Rent) for the Option term within thirty (30) days, they shall immediately 
execute an amendment to this Lease stating the Base Rent. 
b) If the parties are unable to agree on the Base Rent for the Option term within thirty (30) 
days, then, the Base Rent for the Option term shall be the then current fair market rental value of the 
Premises as determined as set forth below. 
c) The then fair market rental value of the Premises shall mean the fair market rental value 
of the Premises as of the commencement of the Option term, taking into consideration the uses 
permitted under this Lease, the quality, size, design and location of the Premises, and the rent for 
comparable buildings located in the general vicinity of the Premises. 
d) Within ten (10) days after the expiration of the thirty (30) day period set forth in 
Section 6(C)(iii)(a) above, each party, at its cost and by giving notice to the other party, shall appoint a 
real estate appraiser with at least five (5) years' full-time commercial appraisal experience in the area 
2 
150 of 575

--- page 151 ---
" Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1,2009 
an appraiser within ten (10) days, the single appraiser appointed shall be the sole appraiser and shall 
determine the Base Rent. If the two (2) appraisers are appointed by the parties as stated in this Section 
6(C)(iii)(d), they shall meet promptly and attempt to determine the Base Rent. If they are unable to 
agree within fifteen (15) days after the second appraiser has been appointed, the two (2) appraisals 
shall be added together and their total divided by two (2); the resulting quotient shall be the Base 
Monthly Rent, as the case may be. 
e) After the Base Rent has been determined, the appraisers shall immediately notify the 
parties and the parties shall amend this Lease to set forth such amount. 
7. EARLY POSSESSION: Tenant is entitled to possession of the Premises on 	. Tenant is entitled to 
early possession of the Premises at no additional Rent if Landlord is in receipt of the fully executed Lease, proof 
of insurance as required in this Lease, and payment of the first full month Rent and the security deposit required 
in this Lease. 
8. SECURITY DEPOSIT: 
A. Tenant agrees to pay Landlord $1,282.50 as a security deposit. Tenant agrees not to hold Broker 
responsible for its return. 
B. All or any portion of the security deposit may be used, as reasonably necessary, to: 
(i) cure Tenant's 
default in payment of Rent, late charges, non-sufficient funds ("NSF") fees, or other sums due; 
(ii) repair damage, excluding ordinary wear and tear, caused by Tenant or by a guest or licensee of 
Tenant; (iii) broom clean the Premises, if necessary, upon termination of tenancy; and (iv) cover any 
other unfulfilled obligation of Tenant. SECURITY DEPOSIT SHALL NOT BE USED BY 
TENANT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT OF LAST MONTH'S RENT. If all or any portion of the 
security deposit is used during tenancy, Tenant agrees to reinstate the total security deposit within 5 
days after written notice is delivered to Tenant. Within 30 days after Landlord receives possession of 
the Premises, Landlord shall: (i) furnish Tenant an itemized statement indicating the amount of any 
security deposit received and the basis for its disposition, and (ii) return any remaining portion of 
security deposit to Tenant. 
C. No interest will be paid on security deposit, unless required by local ordinance. 
9. PARKING: Parking is limited to such parking that exists on the Premises. 
10. LATE CHARGE; INTEREST; NSF CHECKS: Tenant acknowledges that either late payment of Rent or 
issuance of a NSF check may cause Landlord to incur costs and expenses, the exact amount of which are 
extremely difficult and impractical to determine. These costs may include, but are not limited to, processing, 
enforcement and accounting expenses, and late charges imposed on Landlord. If any installment of Rent due 
from Tenant is not received by Landlord within 10 calendar days after date due, or if a check is returned NSF, 
Tenant shall pay to Landlord, respectively, $65.00 as late charge, plus 10% interest per annum on the delinquent 
amount and $25.00 as a NSF fee, any of which shall be deemed additional Rent. Landlord and Tenant agree that 
these charges represent a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs Landlord may incur by reason of Tenant's late 
or NSF payment. Any late charge, delinquent interest, or NSF fee due shall be paid with the current installment 
of Rent. Landlord's acceptance of any late charge or NSF fee shall not constitute a waiver as to any default of 
Tenant. Landlord's right to collect a Late Charge or NSF fee shall not be deemed an extension of the date Rent 
is due under section 3, or prevent Landlord from exercising any other rights and remedies under this agreement, 
and as provided by law. 
11. CONDITION OF PREMISES: Landlord warrants that the Premises has the following equipment and will be 
in the following condition on delivery: 
A. HVAC: Operational standard rooftop with one thermostat (or per code) with warranty and initial 
inspection. 
B. 
Amperage: Operational 200 amp panel, 3 phase, 4 wire, installed to code. 
C. Sprinklers: to code; minimum 4' off demising walls. 
3 
151 of 575

--- page 152 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
C. Sprinklers: to code; minimum 4' off demising walls. 
D. J-box: j-boxes appropriately positioned for each storefront sign(s) 
E. Water: Operational water line for tenant hook-up. 
F. Hazmats: Premises shall be delivered free of all asbestos, mold and hazardous materials. 
G. Other Premises will be ADA compliant and have access to restrooms. 
Tenant has examined the Premises and acknowledges that Premise is clean and in operative condition, with the 
following exceptions: 
Tenant is aware that there is an existing building design component that has allowed water intrusion in the 
past. Though there has been considerable effort to mitigate this situation, the Tenant will acknowledge that 
in severe weather, there may be water intrusion at the doors, water draining from the doors on the interior 
floor when doors are opened, and wind-driven water entering the air shaft and to the retail space. Tenant is 
responsible for the immediate removal of the water and immediate notification of intrusion to the Landlord. 
Items listed as exceptions shall be dealt with in the following manner: 
Tenant is responsible for the immediate notification to Lawlor (1 of maintenance, loss, damage or any other 't-
issues related to the Premises as indicated: 
Maintenance Issues, including emergencies - Public Works, 650-522-7350 
Claims - First, Tenant insurer as stated in Lease 
Secondly, the City Attorney's Department, 650-522-7020 
All other questions - Economic Development, 650-522-7240 
If properly notified, Landlord will pay up to a total of $25,000 over the term of the lease to repair damages to 
the Premises resulting from water intrusion. 
12. ZONING AND LAND USE: Tenant accepts the Premises subject to all local, state and federal laws, 
regulations and ordinances ("Laws"). Landlord makes no representation or warranty that Premises are now or 
in the future will be suitable for Tenant's use. Tenant has made its own investigation regarding all applicable 
Laws. 
13. USE: The Premises are for the sole use as specified: 
A. Use of the Premises:  
(i) Primary: sale of Japanese style cream puffs 
(ii) Secondary: sale of cheesecake, dessert and bakery items, custard, yogurt, fruit drinks, fruit ice 
shaves, fruit, tea and coffee, noodles, vegetables, rice, yakitori, beer and sake, and all other related high 
quality food items produced by Beard Papa's and/or Tenant approved in writing by Landlord, such 
approval not to be unreasonably withheld. Sales of ice cream and frozen desserts shall never exceed 
10% of the Tenant's gross sales. 
B. Exclusive Use: Tenant shall have the exclusive right within the Center to engage in the sale of bakery 
items and Japanese cuisine, eclairs, cream puffs, cheesecake, cake and similar dessert items for off 
premises consumption ("protected items"). Tenant's exclusive right shall not apply to: (i) existing 
tenants as of the date of this Lease (and their successors or assigns) occupying premises within the 
building that may have the right to sell protected items; and (ii) existing leases in effect (as of the 
execution of this Lease) within the building which may permit the sale of the protected items. 
No other use is permitted without Landlord's prior written consent If any use by Tenant causes an increase in 
the premium on Landlords existing property insurance, Tenant shall pay for the increased cost. Tenant will 
comply with all Laws affecting its use of the Premises. 
4 
152 of 575

--- page 153 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
14. RULES/REGULATIONS: Tenant agrees to comply with all rules and regulations of Landlord (and, if 
applicable, Owner's Association) that are at any time posted on the Premises or delivered to Tenant. Tenant 
shall not, and shall ensure that guests and licensees of Tenant do not, disturb, annoy, endanger, or interfere with 
other tenants of the building or 'neighbors, or use the Premises for any unlawful purposes, including, but not 
limited to, using, manufacturing, selling, storing, or transporting illicit drugs or other contraband, or violate any 
law or ordinance, or committing a waste or nuisance on or about the Premises. 
Tenant shall operate the use upon the Premises during the same hours as competing similar uses. 
15. MAINTENANCE: 
A. Tenant shall professionally maintain the interior of the Premises including heating, air conditioning, 
electrical, plumbing and water systems, if any. If Tenant fails to maintain the interior of the Premises 
including heating, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing and water systems, if any, Landlord may contract 
for or perform such maintenance, and charge Tenant for Landlords cost. Tenant is responsible for vector 
control and will notify Landlord of all vector control occurring in the space. 
B. Landlord shall maintain the roof, foundation, exterior walls, common areas and exterior of the Premises 
and keep glass, windoWs and doors in operable and safe condition. Landlord is responsible for the heating, - 
ventilation and air conditioning system replacement on a predetermined replacement schedule. 
16. LOSS OF KEY: Loss of any key will result in re-keying of lock with all costs to re-key paid for by Tenant. 
17. ALTERATIONS: Tenant shall not make any alterations in or about the Premises, including installation of 
trade fixtures and signs, without Landlord's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
Any alterations to the Premises shall be done according to law and with required permits. Tenant shall give 
Landlord advance notice of the commencement date of any planned alteration, so that Landlord, at its option, 
may post a Notice of Non-Responsibility to prevent potential liens against Landlord's interest in the Premises. 
Landlord may also require Tenant to provide Landlord with lien releases from any contractor performing work 
on the Premises. Premises offered in an "as is" condition. Any Tenant alterations will be made at Tenant's 
expense. 
18. GOVERNMENT IMPOSED ALTERATIONS: Any alterations required by law as a result of Tenant's use 
shall be Tenant's responsibility. Landlord shall be responsible for any other alterations required by Law. 
19. ENTRY: Tenant shall make Premises available to Landlord or Landlord's agent for the purpose of entering to 
make inspections, necessary or agreed repairs, alterations, or improvements, or to supply necessary or agreed 
services, or to show Premises to prospective or actual purchasers, tenants, mortgagees, lenders, appraisers, or 
contractors. Landlord and Tenant agree that 24 hours notice (oral or written) shall be reasonable and sufficient 
notice. In an emergency, Landlord or Landlord's representative may enter Premises at any time without prior 
notice. 
20. SIGNS: Tenant authorizes Landlord to place a FOR SALE sign on the Premises at any time, and a FOR 
LEASE sign on the Premises within the 30 day period preceding the termination of the agreement. Tenant may 
install signs in conformance with the City's sign ordinance. 
21. SUBLETTING/ASSIGNMENT: Tenant shall not sublet or encumber all or any part of Premises, or assign or 
transfer this agreement or any interest in it, without the prior written consent of Landlord, which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld. Unless such consent is obtained, any subletting, assignment, transfer, or encumbrance of 
the Premises, agreement, or tenancy, by voluntary act of Tenant, operation of law, or otherwise, shall be null 
and void, and, at the option of Landlord, terminate this agreement. Any proposed sublessee, assignee, or 
transferee shall submit to Landlord an application and credit information for Landlord's approval, and, if 
approved, sign a separate written agreement with Landlord and Tenant. Landlord's consent to any one sublease, 
assignment, or transfer, shall not be construed as consent to any subsequent sublease, assignment, or transfer, 
and does not release Tenant of Tenant's obligation under this agreement. 
5 
153 of 575

--- page 154 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1,2009 
22. POSSESSION: If Landlord is unable to deliver possession of Premises on Commencement Date, such date 
shall be extended to the date on which possession is made available to Tenant. However, the expiration date 
shall remain the same as specified in section 6. If Landlord is unable to deliver possession within 90 calendar 
days after the agreed Commencement Date, Tenant may terminate this agreement by giving written notice to 
Landlord, and shall be refunded all Rent and security deposit paid. 
23. TENANTS OBLIGATIONS UPON VACATING PREMISES: Upon termination of agreement, Tenant 
shall: (i) give Landlord all copies of all keys or opening devices to Premises, including restroom and any 
common areas; (ii) vacate Premises and surrender it to Landlord empty of all persons and personal property; 
(iii) vacate all parking and storage spaces; (iv) deliver Premises to Landlord in the same condition as referenced 
in section 11; (v) clean Premises; and (vi) give written notice to Landlord of Tenant's forwarding address. All 
improvements installed by Tenant, with or without Landlord's consent, become the property of Landlord upon 
termination. Landlord may nevertheless require Tenant to remove any such improvement that did not exist at 
the time possecsion was made available to Tenant 
24. DEFAULT: 
A. Event of Default: The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default of this 
Lease by Tenant 
(i) The failure of Tenant to pay or cause to be paid within 10 days after receipt of written notice from 
Landlord, any Rent or charges required by this Lease to be paid by Tenant; 
(ii) The abandonment of the Premises by Tenant; 
(iii) The failure of Tenant to do or cause to be done any act, other than payment of rent, monies, or 
charges, required by this Lease within 30 days after written notice thereof to Tenant or such 
longer period as may be reasonably required to complete such cure so long as such cure is 
promptly commenced within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently and continuously 
prosecuted to completion; 
(iv) Tenant causing, permitting, or suffering, without the prior written consent of Landlord, any act 
when this Lease requires Landlord's prior written consent or prohibits such act, and failing to 
cure such act within 10 days after written notice thereof to Tenant; or 
(v) Any act of bankruptcy caused, suffered, or permitted by Tenant that is not discharged within 60 
days. For the purposes of this Lease, "act of bankruptcy" shall include any of the following: i) 
Any general assignment or general arrangement for the benefit of creditors; ii) The filing of any 
petition by or against Tenant to have Tenant adjudged a bankrupt; iii) The appointment of a 
trustee or receiver to take possession of substantially all of Tenant's assets; iv) The attachment, 
execution, or other judicial seizure of substantially all of Tenant's assets; 
(vi) Failure of Tenant to open for business within one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
Commencement Date as defined in section 6 of this Lease; 
(yid) The failure of Tenant to maintain insurance coverage as defmed in section 29 of this Lease. 
B. In the event of a Tenant default in the payment of any installment of Rent, which default continues for 
ten (10) days after notice to Tenant and demand in writing by Landlord to correct such default, or, in the 
event of any other default which continues for thirty (30) days after notice from Landlord to Tenant, or if 
Tenant abandons the Premises prior to the expiration of the Term provided for in this agreement, the 
Landlord may at his option pursue the Default Remedies contained in this Lease. 
C. Default Remedies: If an Event of Default shall occur and continue, then in addition to any other 
remedies available to Landlord at law or in equity, Landlord shall have the immediate option to terminate 
this Lease and bring suit against Tenant and recover as an award in such suit the following: 
6 
154 of 575

--- page 155 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
(i) the worth at the time of award of the unpaid Rent and all other sums due hereunder which had 
been earned at the time of termination; 
(ii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Rent and all other sums due 
hereunder which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the 
amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could have been reasonably avoided; 
(iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Rent and all other sums due 
hereunder for the balance of the Term after termination exceeds the amount of such rental loss 
that Tenant proves could be reasonably avoided; 
(iv) any other amount necessary to compensate Landlord for all the detriment proximately caused by 
Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease; and 
(v) such amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by 
applicable California law. 
25. DAMAGE TO PREMISES: If, by no fault of Tenant, Premises are totally or partially damaged or destroyed 
by fire, earthquake, accident or other casualty, Landlord shall have the right to restore the Premises by repair or 
rebuilding. If Landlord elects to repair or rebuild, and is able to complete such restoration within 90 days from 
the date of damage, subject to the terms of this section, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect. If 
Landlord is unable to restore the Premises within this time, or if Landlord elects not to restore, then either 
Landlord or Tenant may terminate this agreement by giving the other written notice. Rent shall be abated as of 
the date of damage. The abated amount shall be the current monthly Rent prorated on a 30-day basis. If this 
agreement is not terminated, and the damage is not repaired, then Rent shall be reduced based on the extent to 
which the damage interferes with Tenant's reasonable use of Premises. If damage occurs as a result of an act of 
Tenant or Tenant's guests, only Landlord shall have the right of termination, and no reduction in Rent shall be 
made. 
26. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Tenant shall not use, store, generate, release or dispose of any hazardous 
material on the Premises or the property of which the Premises are part. However, Tenant is permitted to make 
use of such materials that are required to be used in the normal course of Tenant's business provided that Tenant 
complies with all applicable Laws related to the hazardous materials. Tenant is responsible for the cost of 
removal and remediation, or any clean-up of any contamination caused by Tenant. 
27. CONDEMNATION: [fall or part of the Premises is condemned for public use, either party may terminate this 
agreement as of the date possession is given to the condemner. All condemnation proceeds, exclusive of those 
allocated by the condemner to Tenant's relocation costs and trade fixtures, belong to Landlord. 
28. INDEMNIFICATION: Tenant agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Landlord, and its officers, 
officials, agents, and employees, from any and all liabilities, claims, demands, actions, losses, damages, and 
costs, including all costs of defense thereof and any award of attorney's fees, caused by, arising out of, or in any 
way related to Tenant's use or occupancy of the leased premises. 
29. INSURANCE: Tenant shall procure and maintain for the duration of the Lease insurance against claims for 
injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the Tenant's operation 
and use of the leased premises, as described in this section. The cost of such insurance shall be borne by the 
Tenant. 
A. Minimum Scope Of Insurance: 
(i) Insurance Services Office Commercial General Liability coverage (occurrence form CG 0001). 
(ii) Workers' compensation insurance as required by the State of California and Employer's Liability 
insurance (for tenants with employees). 
(iii) Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or betterments. 
B. Minimum Limits Of Insurance: Tenant shall maintain limits no less than: 
7 
155 of 575

--- page 156 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1,2009 
(i) General liability: $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property 
damage. If Commercial General Liability Insurance or other form with a general aggregate limit 
is used, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
(ii) Employer's liability: $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(iii) Property insurance: Full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision. 
C. Deductibles And Self-Insured Retentions:  Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be 
declared to and approved by the Landlord. At the option of the Landlord, either: The insurer shall 
reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the Landlord, its officers, 
officials, agents, and employees; or the Tenant shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the 
Landlord guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses. 
D. Other Insurance Provisions: The general liability policy is to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
(i) The Landlord, its officers, officials, agents, and employees are to be covered as insureds with 
respect to liability arising out of ownership, maintenance or use of that part of the premises 
leased to the Tenant. 	
• 
(ii) The Tenant's insurance coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the Landlord, its 
officers, officials, agents, and employees. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the 
Landlord, its officers, officials, agents and employees shall be excess of the Tenant's insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
(iii) Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that coverage shall not 
be canceled, except after 30 days' prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, 
has been given to the Landlord. 
E. Acceptability Of Insurer:  Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of 
no less than A:VII. 
F. Verification Of Coverage: Tenant shall furnish Landlord with the original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The endorsements should be on 
forms provided by the Landlord or on other than the Landlord's forms, provided those endorsements 
OT 
policies conform to the requirements. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and 
approved by the Landlord before taking possession of the Premises. The Landlord reserves the right to 
require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements affecting 
the coverage required by these specifications at any time. 
30. TENANCY STATEMENT (ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE): Tenant shall execute and return a tenancy 
statement (estoppel certificate), delivered to Tenant by Landlord or Landlord's agent, within 15 days after its 
receipt. The tenancy statement shall acknowledge that this agreement is unmodified and in full force, or in full 
force as modified, and state the modifications. Failure to comply with this requirement: (i) shall be deemed 
Tenant's acknowledgment that the tenancy statement is true and correct, and may be relied upon by a 
prospective lender or purchaser; and (ii) may be treated by Landlord as an Event of Default of this agreement. 
Tenant shall also prepare, execute, and deliver to Landlord any financial statement (which will be held in 
confidence) reasonably requested by a prospective lender or buyer. 
31. LANDLORD'S TRANSFER: Tenant agrees that the transferee of Landlord's interest shall be substituted as 
Landlord under this agreement. Landlord will be released of any further obligation to Tenant regarding the 
security deposit, only if the security deposit is returned to Tenant upon such transfer, or if the security deposit is 
8 
156 of 575

--- page 157 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
actually transferred to the transferee. For all other obligations under this agreement which accrue after the date 
of transfer, Landlord is released of any further liability to Tenant, upon Landlord's transfer. 
32. SUBORDINATION: This agreement shall be subordinate to all existing liens and, at Landlord's option, the 
lien of any first deed of trust or first mortgage subsequently placed upon the real property of which the Premises 
are a part, and to any advances made on the security of the Premises, and to all renewals, modifications, 
consolidations, replacements, and extensions. However, as to the lien of any deed of trust or mortgage entered 
into after execution of this agreement, Tenant's right to quiet possession of the Premises shall not be disturbed if 
Tenant is not in default and so long as Tenant pays the Rent and observes and performs all of the provisions of 
this agreement, unless this agreement is otherwise terminated pursuant to its terms. If any mortgagee, trustee, or 
ground lessor elects to have this agreement placed in a security position prior to the lien of a mortgage, deed of 
trust, or ground lease, and gives written notice to Tenant, this agreement shall be deemed prior to that mortgage, 
deed of trust, or ground lease, or the date of recording. 
33. TENANT REPRESENTATIONS; CREDIT: 
Tenant warrants that all statements in Tenant's financial 
documents and rental application are accurate. Tenant authorizes Landlord and Broker(s) to obtain Tenant's 
credit report at time of application and periodically during tenancy in connection with approval, modification, 
or enforcement of this agreement. Landlord may cancel this agreement: 
(i) before occupancy begins, upon 
disapproval of the credit report(s); or (ii) at any time, upon discovering that information in Tenant's application 
is false. A negative credit report reflecting on Tenant's record may be submitted to a credit reporting agency, if 
Tenant fails to pay Rent or comply with any other obligation under this agreement. 
34. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: 
A. Mediation: Tenant and Landlord agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out of 
this agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to court action, subject to section 34A(1) 
below. Mediation fees, if any, shall be divided equally among the parties involved. If for any dispute or 
claim to which this paragraph applies, any party commences an action without first attempting to 
resolve the matter through mediation or refuses to mediate after a request has been made, then that 
party shall not be entitled to recover attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be available to that 
party in any such action. 
(1) Exclusions From Mediation: The following matters are excluded from Mediation hereunder: 
(i) a judicial or non-judicial foreclosure or other action or proceeding to enforce a deed of trust, 
mortgage, or Installment land sale contract as defined in Civil Code §2985; (ii) an unlawful detainer 
action; (iii) the filing or enforcement of a inechanic's lien; (iv) any matter that is within the jurisdiction 
of a probate, small claims, or bankruptcy court; and (v) an action for bodily injury or wrongful death, 
or for latent or patent defects to which Code of Civil Procedure §337.I or §337.15 applies. The filing 
of a court action to enable the recording of a notice of pending action, for order of attachment, 
receivership, injunction, or other provisional remedies, shall not constitute a violation of the mediation 
provision. 
(2) Brokers: Tenant and Landlord agree to mediate disputes or claims involving either or both 
Brokers, provided either or both Brokers shall have agreed to such mediation, prior to, or within a 
reasonable time after the dispute or claim is presented to Brokers. Any election by either or both 
Brokers to participate in mediation shall not result in Brokers being deemed parties to the agreement. 
35. NOTICE: Notices may be served by certified mail, email, or courier at the following address or location or at 
any other location subsequently designated: 
Landlord: City of San Mateo  
330 W. 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
650.522.7240  
EDBAAcityofsanmateo.org  
Tenant: Peninsula Puffs LLC.  
Beard Papa Sweets Café (dba)  
99 Yerba Buena Ln.  
San Francisco, CA 94103  
(415) 978.9972  
9 
157 of 575

--- page 158 ---
' Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1,2009 
Notice is deemed effective upon the earliest of the following: (i) personal receipt by either party or their agent; or 
(ii) written acknowledgement of notice. 
36. WAIVER: The waiver of any Event of Default shall not be construed as a continuing waiver of the same Event 
of Default or a waiver of any subsequent Event of Default. 
37. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS/SUPPLEMENTS: 
The site plan of the Main Street Garage is 
"Exhibit A". 
38. NONDISCRIMINATION: The Tenant herein covenants by and for himself or herself, his or her heirs, 
executors, administrators, and assigns, and all persons claiming under or through him or her, and this lease is 
made• and accepted upon and subject to the following conditions: That there shall be no discrimination against 
or segregation of any person or group of persons, on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, marital status, 
national origin, or ancestry, in the leasing, subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure or enjoyment of the 
premises herein leased nor shall the Tenant himself or any person claiming under or through him or her, 
establish or .pennit any such practice or practices of discrimination or segregation with reference 
1.0 -the 
selection, location, number, use or occupancy, of tenants, lessees, sublessees, subtenants, or vendees in the 
premises herein leased. 
39. BROKERAGE: Tenant shall pay all commissions due Roller Real Estate with regard to this Lease transaction, 
the Broker commission shall be shall be equal to three percent (3%) of the Base Rent of the initial five (5) year 
Lease Term. Payment shall be 50% upon lease execution and 50% upon tenant's occupancy. No Broker 
commission is due from Landlord. Neither Tenant nor Landlord has utilized the services of, or for any other 
reason owes compensation to, a licensed real estate broker (individual or corporate), agent, finder, or other 
entity, other than as named in this agreement, in connection with any act relating to the Premises, including, but 
not limited to, inquiries, introductions, consultations, and negotiations leading to this agreement. Tenant and 
Landlord each agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other, and the Brokers specified herein, and 
their agents, from and against any costs, expenses, or liability for compensation claimed inconsistent with the 
warranty and representation in this section 40. 
40. AGENCY CONFIRMATION: The following agency relationships are hereby confirmed for this transaction: 
Listing Agent: Not Applicable is the agent of 	
 
Selling Agent: Roller Real Estate, Inc. is the agent of the Tenant exclusively. 
Real Estate Brokers are not parties to the agreement between Tenant and Landlord. 
Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and agree that Brokers: (i) do not guarantee the condition of the 
Premises; (ii) cannot verify representations made by others; (iii) will not verify zoning and land use 
restrictions; (iv) cannot provide legal or tax advice; (v) will not provide other advice or information that 
exceeds the knowledge, education or experience required to obtain a real estate license. Furthermore, if 
Broken are not also acting as Landlord in this agreement, Broken: (vi) do not decide what rental rate a 
Tenant should pay or Landlord should accept; and (vii) do not decide upon the length or other terms of 
tenancy. Landlord and Tenant agree that they will seek legal, tax, insurance, and other desired assistance 
from appropriate professionals. 
BROKER DISCLOSURES 
Landlord and Tenant understand that Roller Real Estate, Inc. ("Broker") has not made any investigation or 
determination regarding the value of the property; the past, present or future uses of the property; any possible 
violations of any federal, state, or municipal ordinances, statues, zoning or CC&R's (if applicable); proposed 
acquisition of the property by the Federal, State, County or municipal governments; the accuracy of income and 
expense information; existence or content of any leases; the existence of physical defects in the property, the size of 
10 
158 of 575

--- page 159 ---
Date 
City San Francisco 	
State CA 
	
Zip 94103 
Date 
401 )09 
City Foster City 	
State CA 
	
Zip 94404 
Date 
City Foster City 	
State CA 
	
Zip 94404 
ATTEST: 
Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1,2009 
the property or the size of any improvements, and Landlord and Tenant hereby release Broker from any liability 
relating thereto and agree that such investigation and determination has been Tenant's sole responsibility and Broker 
shall not be held responsible therefore. 
Tenant is advised that any representation of square footage with respect to the total building size, the specific 
rentable space size, the size of common areas, and any improvements thereon are approximations only, which may 
be inaccurate. 
Roller Real Estate, Inc. is not authorized to give legal or tax advice. No representation or recommendation is made 
by Roller Real Estate, Inc. or its agents or employees, as to the legal effect or tax consequences of this document or 
any transaction related thereto. 
41. ENTIRE CONTRACT: Time is of the essence. All prior agreements between Landlord and Tenant are 
incorporated in this agreement, which constitutes the entire contract. It is intended as a final expression of the 
parties' agreement, and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior agreement or contemporaneous oral 
agreement. The parties further intend that this agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of its 
terms, and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial or other proceeding, if any, 
involving this agreement. Any provision of this agreement that is held to be invalid shall not affect the validity 
or enforceability of any other provision in this agreement. This agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to 
the benefit of, the heirs, assignees and successors to the parties. 
Tenant Peninsula Puffs LLC,  
(Print Name) 
Address 99 Yerba Buena,Ln.. 
By: 	
 
Tenant Mary Rose Zia-Cruz, LLC Manager 
(Print Name) 
AddreA 971 Cumberland Ct  
, 
By: 	
,11 4114 
.AAA AA 
Ten 	
ianna On in LLC 	
• er 
 
(Print ame) 
Address 101 Eliza Ct 
Norma Gomez, City Clerk 
Elate 8/10/09 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Landlord 
Landlord  / s :SUSAN LOFTUS 	
, City Manager  
(owner or agent with authority to enter into this agreement) 
Address  330 West 20th Avenue 	
City  San Mateo 
State CA 	
Zip  94403 
Date 
State 	Zip 
(owner or agent with authority to enter into this agreement) 
Address  
	
City 	
 
Agency relationships are confirmed as above. Real estate brokers who are not also Landlord in this agreement are 
not a party to the agreement between Landlord and Tenant. 
Real Estate Broker (Leasing Firm) Roller Real Estate Inc. 
DRE Lic. #01275444 
By (Agent)  
	DRE Lic. 401034129 	
Date July 1, 2009 
Rodney Roller 
Address 2033 Gateway Place, Ste. 500 	 City San Jose 	State CA 	
Zip 95110 
11 
159 of 575

--- page 160 ---
Premises: 365 2nd Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403 	
July 1, 2009 
Telephone (408)226-8000 	
Fax (408)351-8831 	
E-mail Rodney@RollerRealEstate. corn 
Real Estate Broker (Listing Firm) Not Applicable 	
DRE Lic. # 	
 
By (Agent)  
	
DRE Lic. # 
	
Date 	 
Address  
	
City  
	
State 	
 Zip 	 
Telephone 	
 Fax 	
 
E-mail 
12 
160 of 575

--- page 161 ---
Z-1'HIGH CONC.: WALL 
. 
AL minifl.PPirr 
6'-ft X 11I-8 1/2' 
 
8 HIGH CONCRETE *ALL 
% 
% h. 
% 
- 
6, 
MN 
5taire 
g 	13'4 1/2- 
R: 
I 
E: 
7 1 
g 
or, 
4 	
ea 
4.1 _ 	
E 
•a.,.•, , 
ha 	. 
- 
lamil 
MAN 
.. 
- 
4, 
m 
41. 	
:, t 
P 
1 
I 
I 
m 
k 
4. 11114 
1 
, 
2-5x11'-8 /2"' 	
ZirX 11'4 la" 
ad  HIGH CONC. BASE 	
a-HIGH CONC. BASE 
- Premises: 365 2nd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
July 1,2009 
EXHIBIT "A" 
C-1 
161 of 575

--- page 162 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 137  (2009) 	RECEIVED 
 
APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTIOnnus 	
ct i e 
THE RETAIL LEASE WITH PENINSULA PUFFS, LLC, 
clba BEARD PAPA'S SWEETS CAFE, FOR RETAIL SP
.urtosEOF CITY CLERK
rF, 
IN THE MAIN STREET GARAGE 	 CITY HALL 
($1,282.50 per month paid to the City) 	
SAN MATEO, CA 
WHEREAS, the City has listed the retail space located at 365 Second 
Avenue (in the Main Street garage) on the Downtown Available Commercial 
Space Listing and has responded to all inquiries about the space; and 
WHEREAS, Beard Papa, a franchise retail company selling cream puffs 
and other dessert items with two other locations in the Bay Area, submitted a 
formal proposal to lease the retail space at market-rate rent and has been in 
lease negotiations with the City for several months; and 
WHEREAS, other proposals have been entertained during this time, but 
the Beard Papa lease rate was the highest offered; and 
WHEREAS, Beard Papa meets criteria advancing the City's objectives to 
lease out retail space in the Main Street Garage to secure strong tenants who 
are compatible with the Cinema and who would bring greater foot traffic to the 
Downtown area; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY FINDS, 
RESOLVES and ORDERS that: 
1. 
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b), the City 
Council finds that calling for bids would be impracticable in that the space 
does not have food preparation amenities that would be necessary for many 
tenants and the City has advertised the space 
2. 
The retail lease with Peninsula Puffs, LLC, dba Beard Papa's 
Sweets Café, for retail space in the Main Street Garage at 365 Second Avenue, 
in the amount of $1282.50 per month is approved, in substantially the form 
attached to this Resolution, 
3. 
The City Manager is authorized to sign and execute the lease on 
behalf of the City. 
4. 
The City Clerk is instructed to attest the signature of the City 
Manager and affix the corporate seal of said City. 
ATTEST: 
,244 
14a 
ORIGINAL 
CITY CLERK 	
MAYOR 
162 of 575

--- page 163 ---
* * * 
Resolution adopted by the City Council of the City of 
San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting held on 
August 10, 2009, by the following vote of the Council: 
AYES: Council Members EPSTEIN, LEE, MATTHEWS, 
HANSSON and GROTTE 
NOES: NONE 
ABSENT: NONE 
(SEAL) /s/ NORMA GOMEZ, City Clerk 
163 of 575

--- page 164 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Number: 10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-514
File ID: 23-7326
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department 
MEETING DATE:
April 3, 2023
SUBJECT:
Police Department – Job Specification Updates
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer Trainee, Police 
Officer, Police Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain to reflect the changes in California state law and elevated 
standards for the San Mateo Police Department.
BACKGROUND:
Age, Education, and Testing Requirements
The State of California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) regulations are intended as minimum 
standards. Local agencies can and do create standards that exceed these minimums. For example, it is quite a common 
practice for agencies to administer a physical ability test, as well as a detection of deception examination (i.e., lie detector 
test), even though neither are required by POST. Many agencies also require standards that exceed State and POST 
minimums, such as a minimum age requirement of 21 years old and/or requiring a 2-year college degree. The San Mateo 
Police Department will now require an applicant to be 21-years-old at time of appointment to Police Officer and possess, at 
a minimum, an associate’s degree from an accredited college. Additionally, most agencies in California require a T-score 
higher than 42 in order to pass the Pellet-B written examination and some police academies require a minimum of 48. We 
are raising our preferred score to 52 for new applicants or score in the 90th percentile for the National Testing Network Law 
Enforcement written examination. The applicant shall also pass the Work Sample Test Battery (WSTB) physical agility 
examination.
Peace Officer Certification
California Senate Bill No. 2 requires updates to the job specifications for sworn peace officers in the State of California. This 
bill prohibits a person who has been convicted of a felony, as specified, from regaining eligibility for peace officer 
employment based upon any later order of the court setting aside, vacating, withdrawing, expunging or otherwise 
dismissing or reversing the conviction, unless the court finds the person to be factually innocent of the crime for which they 
were convicted at the time of entry of the order. The bill disqualifies a person from being employed as a peace officer if 
that person has been convicted of, or has been adjudicated in an administrative, military, or civil judicial process as having 
committed, a violation of certain specified crimes against public justice, including the falsification of records, bribery, or 
perjury. The bill also disqualifies any person who has been certified as a peace officer by the POST and has surrendered that 
certification or had that certification revoked by the commission, or has been denied certification. The bill disqualifies any 
person previously employed in law enforcement in any state or United States territory or by the federal government, whose 
name is listed in the national decertification index, or any other database designated by the federal government, or who 
engaged in serious misconduct that would have resulted in their certification being revoked in the State of California. The 
bill requires a law enforcement agency employing certain peace officers to employ only individuals with a current, valid 
certification or pending certification.
Authorization to Work
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under federal law. There 
are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government Code Section 1031(h) limits employment 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org
164 of 575

--- page 165 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
authorization documents to those consistent with Section 274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific 
documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or 
higher standards.
In order to address the desired standards and new legislative requirements, it is proposed that peace officer job 
specifications reflect the following updates: 
Police Officer Trainee
•
Free of any felony convictions.
•
Authorization to work in the United States.
•
Equivalent to the 12th grade education.
•
Possess a minimum of an associate’s degree from an accredited college.
•
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a preferred T-Score 
of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination, or possession of a National Testing 
Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a preferred score in the 90th percentile and a 
passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination.
•
Age not less than 21 years-old at time of appointment to the rank of Police Officer.
Police Officer
•
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
•
Free of any felony convictions.
•
Authorization to work in the United States.
•
Equivalent to the 12th grade education.
•
Possess a minimum of an associate’s degree from an accredited college.
•
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a preferred T-Score 
of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination, or possession of a National Testing 
Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a preferred score in the 90th percentile and a 
passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination.
•
Age not less than 21 years-old at time of appointment to the rank of Police Officer.
Police Sergeant
•
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
•
Free of any felony convictions.
•
Authorization to work in the United States.
•
Possess a minimum of an associate’s degree from an accredited college.
Police Lieutenant
•
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
•
Free of any felony convictions.
•
Authorization to work in the United States.
Police Captain
•
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
•
Free of any felony convictions.
•
Authorization to work in the United States.
The job specification revisions have been discussed with the impacted bargaining groups, and they are supportive of the 
changes. Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), job specification revisions become effective upon approval by 
the City Council.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer 
Trainee, Police Officer, Police Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain.
165 of 575

--- page 166 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These job specification revisions are exempt from CEQA review because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility that this activity may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
  Exhibit A – Job Specifications
Att 2 – Job Specifications with tracked changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst 
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
166 of 575

--- page 167 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2023)
CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications must be 
approved by City Council resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes as detailed below are in response to the Police Department’s request 
to revise the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer Trainee, Police Officer, Police Sergeant, 
Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain to reflect the changes in California state law and elevated standards for the 
San Mateo Police Department.
WHEREAS, the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer Trainee, Police Officer, Police 
Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain are attached hereto as Exhibit A, and incorporated by reference; 
and
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have been informed of 
the job specification updates and have not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer Trainee, Police Officer, 
Police Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain are not subject to CEQA because it can be 
seen with certainty that they will not cause a physical change in the environment, under CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).  
2.
The revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Police Officer Trainee, Police Officer, 
Police Sergeant, Police Lieutenant, and Police Captain are approved and attached as Exhibit A.
167 of 575

--- page 168 ---
Exhibit A
POLICE OFFICER TRAINEE
DEFINITION
To attend a Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST)-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy and 
receive the academic and physical training resulting in graduation and certification required for appointment 
to the classification of Police Officer.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This is a non-sworn classification structured for incumbents hired for the purpose of becoming a sworn police 
officer.  Police Officer Trainees are hired into this civilian position for the period prior and during the time 
they are assigned to a POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy.  Upon successful completion of 
training at the academy and upon the availability of a Police Officer position, Police Officer Trainees are 
sworn in and appointed to the classification of Police Officer.  Police Officer Trainee benefits are limited to 
those of a civilian employee.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receive general supervision from higher level supervisory or management staff and from training staff at a 
POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Attend a POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy designed to provide an overview of the 
criminal justice system including knowledge of laws, police procedures, law enforcement techniques, 
first aid and physical fitness.
Receive training to develop an awareness of Police Department functions, as well as the responsibilities 
of Police Officers and how those responsibilities relate to field operations.
Perform related duties and responsibilities as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Ability to:
Successfully complete a POST-Basic Law Enforcement Academy including classroom instruction, 
168 of 575

--- page 169 ---
physical agility and use of firearms.
Learn proper police procedures and methods.
Observe accurately and remember names, faces, numbers, incidents and places.
Think and act quickly in emergencies and to judge situations and people accurately.
Understand and interpret laws and regulations.
Prepare clear, concise, and comprehensive written reports.
Become proficient in self-defense techniques.
Become proficient in the care and use of firearms.
Follow oral and written instructions.
Deal courteously and effectively with the general public.
Experience and Education:
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would provide the required knowledge 
and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
Experience:
None required. 
Education:
Equivalent to completion of an Associate’s degree from an accredited college.
Licenses and Certificates:
Possession of and ability to maintain a valid California Driver’s License.
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a 
preferred T-Score of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. Or 
possession of a National Testing Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a 
preferred score in the 90th percentile and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination.
Necessary Special Qualifications:
Free of any felony convictions.
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government Code 
Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 274a.2 of 
169 of 575

--- page 170 ---
Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, 
Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. 
Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards. 
Age not less than 21-years-old at time of appointment to the rank of police officer.
Vision in each eye, correctable to at least 20/30.
Must pass a background investigation.
Must meet all Department medical, physical and psychological standards.
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50
pounds:  exposure to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards,   
chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and explosive materials.
ADOPTED CC: 
4-18-16
REVISED CC: 
4-03-23
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
POLICE UNIT
FLSA:
NON EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING:  NON-SUPERVISORY
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
4210
ABOLISHED: 
170 of 575

--- page 171 ---
POLICE OFFICER
DEFINITION
To perform law enforcement and crime prevention work by utilizing community policing and problem 
oriented strategies; to control traffic flow and enforce State and local traffic regulations; to perform 
investigative work; to participate in and provide support and assistance to special department crime 
prevention and enforcement programs; and to do related work as assigned. 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This is the entry-level classification in the professional police series requiring sworn peace officer status. 
Positions allocated to the Police Officer class may be assigned to one of a number of functional areas 
within the Police Department; some of the duties assigned may, as determined by the Police Chief, 
require prior experience with the San Mateo Police Department. 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
General supervision is provided by a Police Sergeant. Technical or functional supervision may be 
provided by higher-level police personnel. 
Assignments may require direct or indirect supervision of sworn and non-sworn personnel. 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the 
following: 
Patrol and Traffic Safety
As a Patrol Officer, to patrol City in radio-equipped car or on foot; answer calls for the protection of life 
and property, and the enforcement of City, County, and State laws; may conduct both preliminary and 
follow-up investigations of disturbances, prowlers, burglaries, thefts, hold-ups, vehicle accidents, death, 
and other criminal incidents. 
As a Motor Officer, to patrol the City on a motorcycle or in a radar-equipped patrol unit; respond to calls 
related to traffic incidents and any other required emergencies; observe, monitor 
and control routine and unusual traffic conditions; assist and advise motorists and enforce traffic safety 
laws.  
171 of 575

--- page 172 ---
Make arrests as necessary; interview victims, complainants and witnesses; interrogate suspects; gather 
and preserve evidence; testify and present evidence in court. 
Contact and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies in matters relating to the apprehension of 
offenders and the investigation of offenses.
Prepare reports of arrests made, activities performed, and unusual incidents observed. 
Stop drivers who are operating vehicles in violation of laws; warn drivers against unlawful practices, 
issue citations and make arrests as necessary. 
Check buildings for physical security. 
Search, fingerprint, and transport prisoners. 
Direct traffic at fire, special events, and other emergency or congested situations. 
Maintain contact with citizens regarding potential law enforcement problems and preserve good 
relationships with the general public. 
Assist in the performance of special investigative and crime prevention duties as required. 
Serve warrants and subpoenas; retrieve and request information involving arrests and subpoenas; file 
complaints and perform other work related to the processing of misdemeanor and felony complaints. 
As a Traffic Safety Motor Officer, patrol streets during designated times to control traffic safety 
conditions and enforce traffic safety laws; observe conditions and events which affect traffic safety and 
either take corrective actions or report such conditions and suggestions for improvement; operate a 
traffic safety motorcycle on City streets; respond to and investigate traffic accidents; provide traffic and 
pedestrian safety instruction to the public as assigned. 
Administer first aid as necessary.
Investigator
Coordinate and conduct complete and detailed investigations of crimes involving juveniles and adults, 
crimes against persons and property, and crimes involving vice, gaming, and narcotics violations. 
Participate in all normal enforcement activities including enforcing local and State laws, issuing 
citations, making arrests, administering first aid, and transporting prisoners. 
Perform undercover and surveillance activities. 
Prepare investigative reports and case information. Provide evidence and testimony in court. 
Answer questions from the public concerning local State laws, procedures and activities of the 
Department. 
Interview victims, complainants, witnesses, and suspects. 
172 of 575

--- page 173 ---
Collect, preserve and maintain evidence and property found that is involved with suspected crimes. 
Serve warrants and subpoenas. 
Develop and maintain good relationships with the public, including informants and contacts that may 
helpful in criminal investigations. 
QUALIFICATIONS 
Ability to: 
Observe accurately and remember faces, numbers, incidents, and places. Use and care for 
firearms. 
Think and act quickly in emergencies, and judge situations and people accurately. 
Learn, understand, and interpret laws and regulations. 
Prepare accurate and grammatically correct written reports. 
Learn standard broadcasting procedures of a police radio system.
Use modern police equipment and technology.
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software.
Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with those contacted in the course of 
work.
Understand and carry out oral and written direction. 
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department.
Experience and Education:
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would provide the required knowledge 
and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
Experience:
None required. 
Education:
Equivalent to completion of an Associate’s degree from an accredited college.
License or Certificate:
Possession of a valid California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as required. 
173 of 575

--- page 174 ---
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a 
preferred T-Score of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. Or 
possession of a National Testing Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a 
preferred score in the 90th percentile and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. 
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and 
Training.
Necessary Special Qualifications:
Free of any felony convictions.
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government Code 
Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 274a.2 of 
Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, 
Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. 
Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards. 
Age not less than 21-years-old at time of appointment to the rank of police officer.
Vision in each eye, correctable to at least 20/30.
Must pass a background investigation.
Must meet all Department medical, physical and psychological standards.
ADA Special Requirements
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50
Pounds:  exposure to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, 
chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and explosive materials.
ADOPTED CC: 
7-08-81
REVISED CC: 
5-07-01, 6-18-07, 4-03-23
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
POLICE UNIT
FLSA:
NON EXEMPT
DOT:
YES
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY  
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
4110
ABOLISHED: 
174 of 575

--- page 175 ---
POLICE SERGEANT
DEFINITION
To assume responsibility of police field or office operations; to supervise and personally perform 
investigation, patrol and administrative duties as assigned; and to do related work as required.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives direction from a Police Captain or Lieutenant.
Exercises direct supervision over lower level sworn and non-sworn personnel.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the 
following:
As a Patrol Sergeant, supervise law enforcement activities during a shift; supervise and coordinate directed 
patrol activity; ensure proper care and maintenance of Department equipment.
As a Detective Sergeant, supervise and personally conduct complete and detailed investigations of general 
and specialized crimes; participate in undercover operations including surveillance and serving search 
warrants; review reports and make recommendations and suggestions to officers; coordinate investigations 
involving several officers, including narcotics investigations; and coordinate activities with other law 
enforcement agencies. 
As a Community Policing Sergeant, plan, organize and implement the Neighborhood Watch Program, 
Business Alert program, School/Adult Education program, and other crime prevention programs.
Utilize community policing and problem oriented strategies to address community concerns. 
As a Personnel and Training Sergeant, identify current training needs; coordinate training activities within 
and outside the department; coordinate the consolidation of training activities with other law enforcement 
agencies; coordinate recruitment and selection activities for entry level officers; perform a variety of related 
technical staff work.
 Provide technical staff assistance to a Police Captain or Lieutenant involving such work activities as 
specialized project research, public information, legislative analysis, statistical analysis, and other activities.
Maintain discipline and ensure that department rules and policies are followed.  Write thorough and 
complete evaluations of personnel.
175 of 575

--- page 176 ---
Assist officers in follow-up investigations and personally participate in investigations including the routine 
gathering of evidence, questioning of witness, and apprehension of suspects.
Evaluate operations and activities of assigned responsibility; recommend improvements and modifications; 
research and update policy and procedure guidelines.
Participate in all normal shift activities including enforcing local and State laws, issuing citations, making 
arrests, administering first aid, transporting prisoners, and providing on the scene supervision of hazardous 
materials incidents.
Assume command of police activities at emergencies until relieved by a superior officer.  Function as on-
site incident commander. 
Assist officers in preparing reports in cases for trial and personally appear in court to present evidence and 
testimony; serve as liaison in civil trials as required.
Review reports submitted by officers; identify training needs; conduct in-service training.
Interview victims, complainants, witnesses and suspects; prepare investigation and other reports.
Contact and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies and prosecutors in matters relating to the 
investigation of crimes and the apprehensions of offenders.
Respond to citizen complaints and requests for information; conduct informal and formal complaint 
investigations as assigned. 
Prepare reports of shift activity; analyze and synthesize a variety of data concerning activities and prepare 
reports and statistics.
Assist in budget preparation and administration.
Conduct uniform and equipment inspections.
Oversee building security.
May perform booking procedures and record keeping regarding jail prisoners.
Serve as Watch Commander as assigned.
Act as specialty team leader as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Police methods and procedures, including patrol, crime prevention, community policing, traffic 
control, hazardous material control, investigation and identification techniques and equipment, 
jail operations, police records and reports, and first aid techniques.
176 of 575

--- page 177 ---
Pertinent Federal, State, and local laws, codes and regulations.
Criminal law with particular reference to the apprehension, arrest, and custody of persons 
committing misdemeanors and felonies, including rules of evidence pertaining to the search 
and seizure and the preservation of evidence in traffic and criminal cases.
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation.
Ability to:
Supervise, train and evaluate personnel. 
Gather, assemble, analyze, evaluate and use facts and evidence.
Analyze situations and adopt effective courses of action.
Interpret and apply Federal, State and local policies, procedures, laws and regulations.
Use and care for firearms and other non-lethal weapons.  Administer basic first aid.
Use modern police equipment and technology.
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software.
Observe accurately and remember faces, numbers, incidents and places.
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships within the department, with other 
City departments, other government agencies, and with citizens contacted. 
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
Four years of law enforcement experience at the level of Police Officer.
177 of 575

--- page 178 ---
Training:
Possess a minimum of an associate’s degree from an accredited college. with major 
course work in law enforcement or a related field.
License or Certificate
Possession of a valid California driver's license and appropriate license classification as required. 
          Possession of Basic P.O.S.T. Certificate. Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the 
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
Necessary Special Qualifications:
Free of any felony convictions.
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government 
Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 
274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be 
found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional 
and/or higher standards. 
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50 pounds; exposure 
to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, chemicals, dust, toxic waste, 
mechanical hazards, and explosive materials.
ADOPTED CC: 
7-08-81
REVISED CC: 
6-21-99, 5-07-01, 4-03-23
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
SERGEANTS ASSOCIATION
FLSA:
NON EXEMPT
DOT:
YES
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
7120
ABOLISHED: 
178 of 575

--- page 179 ---
POLICE LIEUTENANT
DEFINITION
Under general direction, to serve as Division or Section Manager having direct administrative control over 
an assigned Division or Section; to supervise, plan and coordinate the activities and operations of an assigned 
Division or Section within the Police Department to coordinate assigned activities with other divisions, 
outside agencies, and the general public; and to provide highly responsible and complex staff assistance to 
Police Captains and the Police Chief.
SUPERVISION EXERCISED AND RECEIVED
Receives direction from a Police Captain or the Police Chief. 
Exercises direct supervision over sworn, non-sworn, supervisory, professional, technical, and administrative 
support staff.
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES
Coordinate the organization, staffing, and operational activities for an assigned Division or Section within the 
Police Department.
Participate in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, and procedures for an 
assigned police operation or program; identify opportunities for improving police service delivery methods 
and procedures.
Select, train, motivate and evaluate assigned personnel; provide or coordinate staff training; work with 
employees to correct deficiencies; implement disciplinary procedures.
Direct, plan, coordinate, assign, schedule, and review the work of an assigned police operation or program 
and staff members; assign cases and conduct follow-up status reviews; review daily log and reports submitted 
by officers; ensure compliance with Department policies and procedures.
Participate in the development and administration of an assigned budget; forecast additional funds needed for 
staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies; identify and pursue all appropriate funding sources available; 
monitor and approve expenditures; recommend adjustments as necessary.
Maintain discipline and enforce all rules, regulations and special or general orders.
179 of 575

--- page 180 ---
Conduct inspections of facilities and equipment to ensure proper use and maintenance and adherence to 
Department policies and procedures.
Coordinate assigned services and activities with those of other divisions and outside agencies and 
organizations; maintain and facilitate positive public relations and cooperative working relationships with 
news media, schools, local organizations and the general public; attend and speak at various community 
functions and meetings; prepare press releases.
Implement community oriented policing and problem solving as a philosophy and practice throughout the 
organization.
Maintain, manage, and activate specialty units (such as SWAT and HNT) as needed.
Exchange information with citizens; interview citizens regarding complaints or suggestions regarding police 
services.
Review all communications affecting the work of an assigned Division or Section.
Provide assistance to higher level staff; prepare and present staff reports and other necessary correspondence.
Conduct investigations of citizen and Department personnel complaints as assigned; mediate conflicts 
between Department personnel and citizens.
Assume command of police activities at emergencies until relieved by a superior officer; function as on-site 
incident commander for major field activities; supervise investigations, interviews, and interrogations in the 
field; personally conduct highly complex or sensitive investigations; oversee and participate in the collection 
and processing of evidence.
Maintain and prepare various records and reports.
Attend and participate in professional group meetings; stay abreast of new trends and innovations in the field 
of law enforcement; review new laws and ordinances; participate in training programs to improve 
professional skills.
Evaluate Department training needs and make recommendations; coordinate, develop, implement, and 
monitor training programs for the Department; oversee the FTO program. 
Assume responsibility for station security and the welfare of all employees, visitors and prisoners.
Serve as Adjutant to Police Chief, including responsibility for public information, initiation and coordination 
of internal investigations, and special projects and assignments.
Administer and ensure completion of appropriate documentation regarding employee and prisoners.
Perform special assignments as assigned.
180 of 575

--- page 181 ---
OTHER JOB RELATED DUTIES
Perform related duties and responsibilities as assigned.
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Operational characteristics, services and activities of comprehensive law enforcement program.
Modern principles and practices of law enforcement program development and administration.
Law enforcement theory, principles and practices and their application to a wide variety of services 
and programs.
Pertinent case law and Federal, State and local laws and ordinances and their impact on law 
enforcement activities.  
Principles and practices of community oriented policing and problem solving.
Police records and reporting procedures.
Disaster preparedness and emergency operations.
Modern investigative methods, including interviewing and interrogation techniques.
Principles of budget preparation and control.
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation.
Local geography, City streets, public buildings, and businesses.
Skill to:
Use firearms and other weapons.
   
Use modern police equipment and technology
Operate modern office equipment, including computer equipment and software.
Employ first aid techniques. 
Employ self-defense tactics.
Operate a motor vehicle safely.
181 of 575

--- page 182 ---
Ability to:
Manage and coordinate the work of sworn, non-sworn, supervisory, professional, technical, and 
administrative support personnel.
Select, supervise, train and evaluate staff.
Analyze problems; identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions and 
implement recommendations in support of goals.
Interpret and apply case law, Federal, State, and local policies, procedures, laws, and regulations.
Analyze situations quickly and objectively and determine proper course of action.
Act decisively and calmly in emergencies.
Obtain information through interviews and interrogation.
Gather, assemble, analyze, evaluate and use facts and evidence.
Meet and deal with the public tactfully and effectively.
Show sensitivity to cultural differences.
Prepare and maintain accurate, complete records and reports.
Prepare and administer budgets.
Exercise good judgment, flexibility, creativity, and sensitivity in response to changing situations and 
needs.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Maintain and build harmonious relationships across a range of work interactions.
Experience and Training Guidelines:
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that would likely provide the required 
knowledge, skills, and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge, skills, 
and abilities would be:
Experience:
Five years of responsible law enforcement experience including three years of supervisory 
experience.
182 of 575

--- page 183 ---
Training:
Equivalents to a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course
work in police science, criminology, public administration, or a related field.
License or Certificate:
Possession of, or ability to obtain within one year, a POST Advanced Certificate.
Possession of a POST Supervisory Certificate.
Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate, valid California driver's license.
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and 
Training..
Necessary Special Qualifications:
Free of any felony convictions.
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government Code 
Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 274a.2 of 
Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, 
Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. 
Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards. 
Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, run, kneel, crouch, stoop, squat, crawl, twist, climb, and exert physical force 
to restrain or subdue individuals; exposure to cold, heat, violence, disease, dust, noise, odors, outdoors, 
toxic agents, vibration, confining workspace, chemicals, explosive or flammable materials, 
mechanical hazards, and electrical hazards; ability to distinguish color and sounds; ability to travel to 
different sites and locations; availability for shift work, on-call, and stand-by.
ADOPTED CC: 
4-12-81
REVISED CC: 
5-07-01, 4-03-23
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
YES
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2530
ABOLISHED:
183 of 575

--- page 184 ---
POLICE CAPTAIN
DEFINITION
To plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate the activities of a division or section of the Police Department; 
to provide highly responsible and technical staff assistance; to demonstrate a commitment to the 
implementation of community services principles; and to do related work as required.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
General direction is provided by the Police Chief.
Responsibilities include direct supervision of sworn and non-sworn professional, technical and clerical 
personnel.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following:
Assist in the development of goals, objectives, policies and priorities.
Plan, direct, supervise and coordinate the activities of sworn and non-sworn personnel in preserving 
order, protecting life and property, and in enforcing laws and municipal ordinances as the operating 
manager of a major bureau.
Formulate rules, procedures, and policies and see that they are carried out.
Research modern police management methods, formulate and enforce rules, procedures and policies for 
efficient operation of a bureau.
Direct the implementation of in-service training programs for assigned personnel.
Review employee performance evaluations and take appropriate action where necessary.
Prepare and administer a Police Department bureau budget.
Confer with citizens and City officials on law enforcement problems and assist in the development of 
innovative municipal law enforcement practices.
Assist in coordinating law enforcement activities with the activities of other City departments and other 
law enforcement agencies.
184 of 575

--- page 185 ---
Supervise, train, and evaluate staff.
Serve as Acting Police Chief.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Philosophy and principles of community services.
Modern principles, practices, and techniques of police administration, organization, and operation.
Technical and administrative phases of crime prevention and law enforcement, including 
investigation and identification, patrol, community policing, traffic control, juvenile delinquency 
control, record keeping, and care and custody of persons and property.
Laws, ordinances, and regulations affecting the work of the Department.
Ability to:
Implement principles of community services.
Communicate clearly and concisely, orally and in writing.
Effectively plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate the work of a division or section of the Police 
Department.
      Direct and supervise lieutenants.
Work effectively as a member of the Department's management team.
Recommend and implement sound departmental policies.
Support and work with other City departments to provide total quality service to the community.
Properly interpret and make decisions in accordance with laws, regulations, and policies.
Use modern police equipment and technology.
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software. 
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department.
Develop, support, and encourage employees in the advancement of their career.
Experience and Education
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities 
185 of 575

--- page 186 ---
would be:
Experience:
Five years of broad and extensive experience in all major phases of municipal police work, 
preferably including one or more years of increasingly responsible management experience. 
Education:
Equivalent to completion of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a 
major course of study in police, public or business administration or a related field.
License or Certificate:
Possession of a valid California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as 
required.
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards 
and Training.
Necessary Special Qualifications:
Free of any felony convictions.
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States 
under federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California 
Government Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent 
with Section 274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation 
requirements can be found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to 
adopt additional and/or higher standards. 
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment with some ability to sit, stand, and walk. 
ADOPTED CC: 
2-05-90
REVISED CC: 
6-21-91, 5-07-01, 4-03-23
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
YES
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY  
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2520
ABOLISHED: 
186 of 575

--- page 187 ---
POLICE OFFICER TRAINEE 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To attend a Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST)-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy and 
receive the academic and physical training resulting in graduation and certification required for 
appointment to the classification of Police Officer. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
This is a non-sworn classification structured for incumbents hired for the purpose of becoming a sworn 
police officer.  Police Officer Trainees are hired into this civilian position for the period prior and during 
the time they are assigned to a POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy.  Upon successful 
completion of training at the academy and upon the availability of a Police Officer position, Police Officer 
Trainees are sworn in and appointed to the classification of Police Officer.  Police Officer Trainee benefits 
are limited to those of a civilian employee. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
Receive general supervision from higher level supervisory or management staff and from training staff at 
a POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
Attend a POST-certified Basic Law Enforcement Academy designed to provide an overview of the 
criminal justice system including knowledge of laws, police procedures, law enforcement techniques, 
first aid and physical fitness. 
 
Receive training to develop an awareness of Police Department functions, as well as the 
responsibilities of Police Officers and how those responsibilities relate to field operations. 
 
Perform related duties and responsibilities as assigned. 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
Ability to: 
187 of 575

--- page 188 ---
Successfully complete a POST-Basic Law Enforcement Academy including classroom 
instruction, physical agility and use of firearms. 
 
Learn proper police procedures and methods. 
 
Observe accurately and remember names, faces, numbers, incidents and places. 
 
Think and act quickly in emergencies and to judge situations and people accurately. 
 
Understand and interpret laws and regulations. 
 
Prepare clear, concise, and comprehensive written reports. 
 
Become proficient in self-defense techniques. 
 
Become proficient in the care and use of firearms. 
 
Follow oral and written instructions. 
 
Deal courteously and effectively with the general public. 
 
Experience and Education: 
 
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would provide the required knowledge 
and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:  
 
Experience: 
 
None required.  
 
Education: 
 
Equivalent to completion of the twelfth grade. 
 
Equivalent to completion of an Associate’s degree from an accredited college.Experience and 
Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Experience: 
 
None required. 
 
188 of 575

--- page 189 ---
Training: 
 
Equivalent to completion of the twelfth grade. 
 
60 units of credit from an accredited college or two years of Military Service in lieu of college is 
desirable. 
 
 
 
Licenses and Certificates: 
 
Possession of and ability to maintain a valid California Driver’s License. 
 
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a 
preferred T-Score of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. Or 
possession of a National Testing Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a 
preferred score in the 90th percentile and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. 
 
Necessary Special Qualifications: 
 
Free of any felony convictions. 
 
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government 
Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 
274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be found 
on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services. Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher 
standards.  
A citizen of the United States or a permanent resident alien who is eligible for and has applied for 
citizenship (Government Code Para. 1031). 
 
Age, not less than 21- years-old at time of appointment to the rank of police officer. 
 
Vision in each eye, correctable to at least 20/30. 
 
Must pass a background investigation. 
 
Must meet all Department medical, physical and psychological standards. 
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50 
189 of 575

--- page 190 ---
pounds:  exposure to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards,   
chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and explosive materials. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
4-18-16 
REVISED CC:  
 
 
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
 
POLICE UNIT 
FLSA:  
 
 
NON EXEMPT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION 
DOT:  
 
 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
YES 
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING:  NON-SUPERVISORY 
FORM 700:  
 
NO 
JOB CODES: 
 
4210 
ABOLISHED:  
 
 
190 of 575

--- page 191 ---
POLICE OFFICER 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To perform law enforcement and crime prevention work by utilizing community policing and 
problem oriented strategies; to control traffic flow and enforce State and local traffic regulations; to 
perform investigative work; to participate in and provide support and assistance to special department 
crime prevention and enforcement programs; and to do related work as assigned.  
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS  
 
This is the entry-level classification in the professional police series requiring sworn peace officer 
status. Positions allocated to the Police Officer class may be assigned to one of a number of 
functional areas within the Police Department; some of the duties assigned may, as determined by the 
Police Chief, require prior experience with the San Mateo Police Department.  
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED  
 
General supervision is provided by a Police Sergeant. Technical or functional supervision may be 
provided by higher-level police personnel.  
 
Assignments may require direct or indirect supervision of sworn and non-sworn personnel.  
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following:  
 
Patrol and Traffic Safety 
 
As a Patrol Officer, to patrol City in radio-equipped car or on foot; answer calls for the protection of 
life and property, and the enforcement of City, County, and State laws; may conduct both preliminary 
and follow-up investigations of disturbances, prowlers, burglaries, thefts, hold-ups, vehicle accidents, 
death, and other criminal incidents.  
 
191 of 575

--- page 192 ---
As a Motor Officer, to patrol the City on a motorcycle or in a radar-equipped patrol unit; respond to 
calls related to traffic incidents and any other required emergencies; observe, monitor  
and control routine and unusual traffic conditions; assist and advise motorists and enforce traffic 
safety laws.   
 
Make arrests as necessary; interview victims, complainants and witnesses; interrogate suspects; 
gather and preserve evidence; testify and present evidence in court.  
 
Contact and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies in matters relating to the apprehension of 
offenders and the investigation of offenses. 
 
Prepare reports of arrests made, activities performed, and unusual incidents observed.  
Stop drivers who are operating vehicles in violation of laws; warn drivers against unlawful practices, 
issue citations and make arrests as necessary.  
 
Check buildings for physical security.  
 
Search, fingerprint, and transport prisoners.  
 
Direct traffic at fire, special events, and other emergency or congested situations.  
 
Maintain contact with citizens regarding potential law enforcement problems and preserve good 
relationships with the general public.  
 
Assist in the performance of special investigative and crime prevention duties as required.  
 
Serve warrants and subpoenas; retrieve and request information involving arrests and subpoenas; file 
complaints and perform other work related to the processing of misdemeanor and felony complaints.  
 
As a Traffic Safety Motor Officer, patrol streets during designated times to control traffic safety 
conditions and enforce traffic safety laws; observe conditions and events which affect traffic safety 
and either take corrective actions or report such conditions and suggestions for improvement; operate 
a traffic safety motorcycle on City streets; respond to and investigate traffic accidents; provide traffic 
and pedestrian safety instruction to the public as assigned.  
 
Administer first aid as necessary. 
 
Investigator 
 
Coordinate and conduct complete and detailed investigations of crimes involving juveniles and adults, 
crimes against persons and property, and crimes involving vice, gaming, and narcotics violations.  
 
 
Participate in all normal enforcement activities including enforcing local and State laws, issuing 
citations, makings arrests, administering first aid, and transporting prisoners.  
192 of 575

--- page 193 ---
Perform undercover and surveillance activities.  
 
Prepare investigative reports and case information. Provide evidence and testimony in court.  
 
Answer questions from the public concerning local State laws, procedures and activities of the 
Department.  
 
Interview victims, complainants, witnesses, and suspects.  
 
Collect, preserve and maintain evidence and property found that is involved with suspected crimes.  
 
Serve warrants and subpoenas.  
 
Develop and maintain good relationships with the public, including informants and contacts that may 
helpful in criminal investigations.  
 
QUALIFICATIONS  
 
Ability to:  
 
Observe accurately and remember faces, numbers, incidents, and places. Use and care for 
firearms.  
 
Think and act quickly in emergencies, and judge situations and people accurately.  
 
Learn, understand, and interpret laws and regulations.  
 
Prepare accurate and grammatically correct written reports.  
 
Learn standard broadcasting procedures of a police radio system. 
 
Use modern police equipment and technology. 
 
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software. 
 
Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with those contacted in the course of 
work. 
 
Understand and carry out oral and written direction.  
 
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department. 
 
 
 
193 of 575

--- page 194 ---
Experience and Education: 
 
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would provide the required knowledge 
and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:  
 
 
Experience: 
 
None required.  
 
Education: 
 
Equivalent to completion of the twelfth grade. 
 
Equivalent to completion of an Associate’s  Arts degree from an accredited college. 
 
 
License or Certificate: 
 
Possession of a valid California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as required.  
 
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) written examination certificate with a 
preferred T-Score of 52 or above and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination. Or 
possession of a National Testing Network Law Enforcement written examination certificate with a 
preferred score in the 90th percentile and a passing score for the WSTB physical agility examination.  
 
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) Written Examination Certificate with a 
T-Score of 52 or above . 
Possession of a POST (Peace Officer Standards & Training) Physical Agility Certificate. 
 
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer Standards 
and Training. 
 
Necessary Special Qualifications: 
 
Free of any felony convictions. 
 
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California Government 
Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those consistent with Section 
274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific documentation requirements can be found 
on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services. Government Code section 1031(g) permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher 
standards.  
 
Age not less than 21-years-old at time of appointment to the rank of police officer. 
194 of 575

--- page 195 ---
Vision in each eye, correctable to at least 20/30. 
 
Must pass a background investigation. 
 
Must meet all Department medical, physical and psychological standards. 
 
ADA Special Requirements 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50 
Pounds:  exposure to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, 
chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and explosive materials. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
7-08-81 
REVISED CC:  
5-07-01, 6-18-07  
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
POLICE UNIT 
FLSA:  
 
NON EXEMPT 
DOT:  
 
YES 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
YES 
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY   
FORM 700:  
NO 
JOB CODES: 
4110 
ABOLISHED:  
 
 
195 of 575

--- page 196 ---
POLICE SERGEANT 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To assume responsibility of police field or office operations; to supervise and personally perform 
investigation, patrol and administrative duties as assigned; and to do related work as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
Receives direction from a Police Captain or Lieutenant. 
 
Exercises direct supervision over lower level sworn and non-sworn personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the 
following: 
 
As a Patrol Sergeant, supervise law enforcement activities during a shift; supervise and coordinate 
directed patrol activity; ensure proper care and maintenance of Department equipment. 
 
As a Detective Sergeant, supervise and personally conduct complete and detailed investigations of general 
and specialized crimes; participate in undercover operations including surveillance and serving search 
warrants; review reports and make recommendations and suggestions to officers; coordinate 
investigations involving several officers, including narcotics investigations; and coordinate activities with 
other law enforcement agencies.  
 
As a Community Policing Sergeant, plan, organize and implement the Neighborhood Watch Program, 
Business Alert program, School/Adult Education program, and other crime prevention programs. 
 
Utilize community policing and problem oriented strategies to address community concerns.  
 
As a Personnel and Training Sergeant, identify current training needs; coordinate training activities within 
and outside the department; coordinate the consolidation of training activities with other law enforcement 
agencies; coordinate recruitment and selection activities for entry level officers; perform a variety of 
related technical staff work. 
 
 Provide technical staff assistance to a Police Captain or Lieutenant involving such work activities as 
196 of 575

--- page 197 ---
specialized project research, public information, legislative analysis, statistical analysis, and other 
activities. 
 
Maintain discipline and ensure that department rules and policies are followed.  Write thorough and 
complete evaluations of personnel. 
 
Assist officers in follow-up investigations and personally participate in investigations including the 
routine gathering of evidence, questioning of witness, and apprehension of suspects. 
 
Evaluate operations and activities of assigned responsibility; recommend improvements and 
modifications; research and update policy and procedure guidelines. 
 
Participate in all normal shift activities including enforcing local and State laws, issuing citations, making 
arrests, administering first aid, transporting prisoners, and providing on the scene supervision of 
hazardous materials incidents. 
 
Assume command of police activities at emergencies until relieved by a superior officer.  Function as on-
site incident commander.  
 
Assist officers in preparing reports in cases for trial and personally appear in court to present evidence 
and testimony; serve as liaison in civil trials as required. 
 
Review reports submitted by officers; identify training needs; conduct in-service training. 
 
Interview victims, complainants, witnesses and suspects; prepare investigation and other reports. 
 
Contact and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies and prosecutors in matters relating to the 
investigation of crimes and the apprehensions of offenders. 
 
Respond to citizen complaints and requests for information; conduct informal and formal complaint 
investigations as assigned.  
 
Prepare reports of shift activity; analyze and synthesize a variety of data concerning activities and prepare 
reports and statistics. 
 
Assist in budget preparation and administration. 
 
Conduct uniform and equipment inspections. 
 
Oversee building security. 
 
May perform booking procedures and record keeping regarding jail prisoners. 
 
Serve as Watch Commander as assigned. 
 
197 of 575

--- page 198 ---
Act as specialty team leader as assigned. 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Police methods and procedures, including patrol, crime prevention, community policing, traffic  
 
control, hazardous material control, investigation and identification techniques and equipment,  
 
jail operations, police records and reports, and first aid techniques. 
 
 
Pertinent Federal, State, and local laws, codes and regulations. 
 
 
Criminal law with particular reference to the apprehension, arrest, and custody of persons  
 
committing misdemeanors and felonies, including rules of evidence pertaining to the search  
 
and seizure and the preservation of evidence in traffic and criminal cases. 
 
 
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
Supervise, train and evaluate personnel.  
 
 
Gather, assemble, analyze, evaluate and use facts and evidence. 
 
 
Analyze situations and adopt effective courses of action. 
 
 
Interpret and apply Federal, State and local policies, procedures, laws and regulations. 
 
 
Use and care for firearms and other non-lethal weapons.  Administer basic first aid. 
 
 
Use modern police equipment and technology. 
 
 
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software. 
 
 
Observe accurately and remember faces, numbers, incidents and places. 
 
 
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
 
 
Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships within the department, with other  
 
City departments, other government agencies, and with citizens contacted.  
 
 
198 of 575

--- page 199 ---
Experience and Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and  
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
Four years of law enforcement experience at the level of Police Officer. 
 
 
Training: 
 
 
Possess a minimum of an associate’s degree from an accredited college.Equivalent to completion 
of an Associate Arts degree from an accredited college  with major  
 
course work in law enforcement or a related field. 
 
License or Certificate 
 
 
Possession of a valid California driver's license and appropriate license classification as required.  
 
          Possession of Basic P.O.S.T. Certificate. 
 
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer 
Standards and Training. 
 
Necessary Special Qualifications: 
 
Free of any felony convictions. 
 
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California 
Government Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those 
consistent with Section 274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific 
documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form 
issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) 
permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards.  
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift 50 pounds; 
exposure to cold, heat, extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, chemicals, dust, 
toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and explosive materials. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
7-08-81 
REVISED CC:  
6-21-99, 5-07-01 
FORMER TITLES:  
199 of 575

--- page 200 ---
BARGAINING UNIT: 
SERGEANTS ASSOCIATION 
FLSA:  
 
NON EXEMPT 
DOT:  
 
YES 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
YES 
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY 
FORM 700:  
NO 
JOB CODES: 
7120 
ABOLISHED:  
 
 
200 of 575

--- page 201 ---
POLICE LIEUTENANT 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
Under general direction, to serve as Division or Section Manager having direct administrative control over 
an assigned Division or Section; to supervise, plan and coordinate the activities and operations of an 
assigned Division or Section within the Police Department to coordinate assigned activities with other 
divisions, outside agencies, and the general public; and to provide highly responsible and complex staff 
assistance to Police Captains and the Police Chief. 
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED AND RECEIVED 
 
Receives direction from a Police Captain or the Police Chief.  
 
Exercises direct supervision over sworn, non-sworn, supervisory, professional, technical, and 
administrative support staff. 
 
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES 
 
Coordinate the organization, staffing, and operational activities for an assigned Division or Section within 
the Police Department. 
 
Participate in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, and procedures for an 
assigned police operation or program; identify opportunities for improving police service delivery methods 
and procedures. 
 
Select, train, motivate and evaluate assigned personnel; provide or coordinate staff training; work with 
employees to correct deficiencies; implement disciplinary procedures. 
 
Direct, plan, coordinate, assign, schedule, and review the work of an assigned police operation or program 
and staff members; assign cases and conduct follow-up status reviews; review daily log and reports 
submitted by officers; ensure compliance with Department policies and procedures. 
 
201 of 575

--- page 202 ---
Participate in the development and administration of an assigned budget; forecast additional funds needed 
for staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies; identify and pursue all appropriate funding sources 
available; monitor and approve expenditures; recommend adjustments as necessary. 
 
Maintain discipline and enforce all rules, regulations and special or general orders. 
 
Conduct inspections of facilities and equipment to ensure proper use and maintenance and adherence to 
Department policies and procedures. 
 
 
Coordinate assigned services and activities with those of other divisions and outside agencies and 
organizations; maintain and facilitate positive public relations and cooperative working relationships with 
news media, schools, local organizations and the general public; attend and speak at various community 
functions and meetings; prepare press releases. 
 
Implement community oriented policing and problem solving as a philosophy and practice throughout the 
organization. 
 
Maintain, manage, and activate specialty units (such as SWAT and HNT) as needed. 
 
Exchange information with citizens; interview citizens regarding complaints or suggestions regarding 
police services. 
 
Review all communications affecting the work of an assigned Division or Section. 
 
Provide assistance to higher level staff; prepare and present staff reports and other necessary correspon-
dence. 
 
Conduct investigations of citizen and Department personnel complaints as assigned; mediate conflicts 
between Department personnel and citizens. 
 
Assume command of police activities at emergencies until relieved by a superior officer; function as on-
site incident commander for major field activities; supervise investigations, interviews, and interrogations 
in the field; personally conduct highly complex or sensitive investigations; oversee and participate in the 
collection and processing of evidence. 
 
Maintain and prepare various records and reports. 
 
Attend and participate in professional group meetings; stay abreast of new trends and innovations in the 
field of law enforcement; review new laws and ordinances; participate in training programs to improve 
professional skills. 
 
Evaluate Department training needs and make recommendations; coordinate, develop, implement, and 
monitor training programs for the Department; oversee the FTO program.  
 
202 of 575

--- page 203 ---
Assume responsibility for station security and the welfare of all employees, visitors and prisoners. 
 
Serve as Adjutant to Police Chief, including responsibility for public information, initiation and 
coordination of internal investigations, and special projects and assignments. 
 
Administer and ensure completion of appropriate documentation regarding employee and prisoners. 
 
Perform special assignments as assigned. 
 
OTHER JOB RELATED DUTIES 
 
Perform related duties and responsibilities as assigned. 
 
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Operational characteristics, services and activities of comprehensive law enforcement program. 
 
 
Modern principles and practices of law enforcement program development and administration. 
 
 
Law enforcement theory, principles and practices and their application to a wide variety of services 
and programs. 
 
 
Pertinent case law and Federal, State and local laws and ordinances and their impact on law 
enforcement activities.   
 
 
Principles and practices of community oriented policing and problem solving. 
 
 
Police records and reporting procedures. 
 
 
Disaster preparedness and emergency operations. 
 
 
Modern investigative methods, including interviewing and interrogation techniques. 
 
 
Principles of budget preparation and control. 
 
 
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation. 
 
 
Local geography, City streets, public buildings, and businesses. 
 
 
Skill to: 
 
 
Use firearms and other weapons. 
 
203 of 575

--- page 204 ---
Use modern police equipment and technology 
 
 
 
Operate modern office equipment, including computer equipment and software. 
 
 
Employ first aid techniques.  
 
 
Employ self-defense tactics. 
 
 
Operate a motor vehicle safely. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
Manage and coordinate the work of sworn, non-sworn, supervisory, professional, technical, and 
administrative support personnel. 
 
 
Select, supervise, train and evaluate staff. 
 
 
Analyze problems; identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions and 
implement recommendations in support of goals. 
 
 
Interpret and apply case law, Federal, State, and local policies, procedures, laws, and regulations. 
 
 
Analyze situations quickly and objectively and determine proper course of action. 
 
 
Act decisively and calmly in emergencies. 
 
 
Obtain information through interviews and interrogation. 
 
 
Gather, assemble, analyze, evaluate and use facts and evidence. 
 
 
Meet and deal with the public tactfully and effectively. 
 
 
Show sensitivity to cultural differences. 
 
 
Prepare and maintain accurate, complete records and reports. 
 
 
Prepare and administer budgets. 
 
 
Exercise good judgment, flexibility, creativity, and sensitivity in response to changing situations 
and needs. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
 
 
Maintain and build harmonious relationships across a range of work interactions. 
 
204 of 575

--- page 205 ---
Experience and Training Guidelines: 
 
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that would likely provide the required  
knowledge, skills, and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge, skills,  
and abilities would be: 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
Five years of responsible law enforcement experience including three years of supervisory  
 
experience. 
 
 
Training: 
 
 
Equivalents to a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course 
 
work in police science, criminology, public administration, or a related field. 
 
 
License or Certificate: 
 
 
Possession of, or ability to obtain within one year, a POST Advanced Certificate. 
 
 
Possession of a POST Supervisory Certificate. 
 
 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate, valid California driver's license. 
 
 
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer 
Standards and Training.. 
 
Necessary Special Qualifications: 
 
Free of any felony convictions. 
 
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California 
Government Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those 
consistent with Section 274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific 
documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form 
issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) 
permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards.  
 
 
Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, run, kneel, crouch, stoop, squat, crawl, twist, climb, and exert physical force  
205 of 575

--- page 206 ---
to restrain or subdue individuals; exposure to cold, heat, violence, disease, dust, noise, odors, outdoors,  
toxic agents, vibration, confining workspace, chemicals, explosive or flammable materials,  
mechanical hazards, and electrical hazards; ability to distinguish color and sounds; ability to travel to  
different sites and locations; availability for shift work, on-call, and stand-by. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
4-12-81 
REVISED CC:  
 
5-07-01  
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
FLSA:  
 
 
EXEMPT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
MANAGEMENT 
DOT:  
 
 
YES 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
YES 
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY 
FORM 700:  
 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
 
2530 
ABOLISHED:  
 
 
206 of 575

--- page 207 ---
POLICE CAPTAIN 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate the activities of a division or section of the Police 
Department; to provide highly responsible and technical staff assistance; to demonstrate a 
commitment to the implementation of community services principles; and to do related work as 
required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
General direction is provided by the Police Chief. 
 
Responsibilities include direct supervision of sworn and non-sworn professional, technical and 
clerical personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following: 
 
Assist in the development of goals, objectives, policies and priorities. 
 
Plan, direct, supervise and coordinate the activities of sworn and non-sworn personnel in preserving 
order, protecting life and property, and in enforcing laws and municipal ordinances as the operating 
manager of a major bureau. 
 
Formulate rules, procedures, and policies and see that they are carried out. 
 
Research modern police management methods, formulate and enforce rules, procedures and policies 
for efficient operation of a bureau. 
 
Direct the implementation of in-service training programs for assigned personnel. 
 
Review employee performance evaluations and take appropriate action where necessary. 
 
Prepare and administer a Police Department bureau budget. 
 
207 of 575

--- page 208 ---
Confer with citizens and City officials on law enforcement problems and assist in the development of 
innovative municipal law enforcement practices. 
 
Assist in coordinating law enforcement activities with the activities of other City departments and 
other law enforcement agencies. 
 
Supervise, train, and evaluate staff. 
 
Serve as Acting Police Chief. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Philosophy and principles of community services. 
 
 
Modern principles, practices, and techniques of police administration, organization, and operation. 
 
 
Technical and administrative phases of crime prevention and law enforcement, including 
investigation and identification, patrol, community policing, traffic control, juvenile delinquency 
control, record keeping, and care and custody of persons and property. 
 
 
Laws, ordinances, and regulations affecting the work of the Department. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
Implement principles of community services. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, orally and in writing. 
 
 
Effectively plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate the work of a division or section of the Police 
Department. 
 
      Direct and supervise lieutenants. 
 
 
 
Work effectively as a member of the Department's management team. 
 
 
Recommend and implement sound departmental policies. 
 
Support and work with other City departments to provide total quality service to the community. 
 
 
Properly interpret and make decisions in accordance with laws, regulations, and policies. 
 
 
Use modern police equipment and technology. 
 
208 of 575

--- page 209 ---
Operate office equipment, including computer equipment and software.  
 
 
Meet the physical requirements established by the Department. 
 
 
Develop, support, and encourage employees in the advancement of their career. 
 
 
Experience and Education 
 
 
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that would likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities 
would be: 
 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
 
Five years of broad and extensive experience in all major phases of municipal police work, 
preferably including one or more years of increasingly responsible management experience.  
 
 
 
Education: 
 
 
 
Equivalent to completion of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university 
with a major course of study in police, public or business administration or a related field. 
 
 
License or Certificate: 
 
 
Possession of a valid California driver’s license and appropriate license classification as  
 
required. 
 
 
 
Must maintain a current peace officer certification from the Commission on Peace Officer 
Standards and Training. 
 
Necessary Special Qualifications: 
 
Free of any felony convictions. 
 
Effective January 1, 2023, peace officers must be legally authorized to work in the United States under 
federal law. There are no specific citizenship requirements per Senate Bill 2. California 
Government Code Section 1031(h) limits employment authorization documents to those 
consistent with Section 274a.2 of Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Specific 
documentation requirements can be found on the I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification form 
issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Government Code section 1031(g) 
permits departments to adopt additional and/or higher standards.  
 
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
209 of 575

--- page 210 ---
Ability to work in a standard office environment with some ability to sit, stand, and walk.  
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
2-05-90 
REVISED CC:  
 
6-21-91, 5-07-01 
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION  
FLSA:  
 
 
EXEMPT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
MANAGEMENT 
DOT:  
 
 
YES 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
NO 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
YES 
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY   
FORM 700:  
 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
 
2520 
ABOLISHED:  
210 of 575

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-3111
File ID: 23-7274
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Cannon Design Group for On-Call Design Review Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Cannon Design Group for architectural design review and other related services in an amount 
not to exceed $500,000, and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Department (CDD) frequently utilizes consultants to provide various specialized professional 
services to support the processing of planning applications. Given the volume of planning applications that CDD receives 
and processes, staff works with consultants on an as-needed basis based on the complexity and specific needs of an 
application. To expand the group of consultants available to support the planning application review process, CDD issued a 
request for qualifications (RFQ) in fall of 2022 to identify firms interested in and qualified to provide various specialized 
planning support services on an on-call basis. The specialized services identified in the RFQ included environmental review, 
architectural design review, historical review, economic analysis, and archaeological consultants. 
The RFQ identified several areas where CDD anticipated needs based on the current applications in the pipeline, or past 
precedent, and allowed interested firms to submit statements of qualifications for any or all of those identified needs. One 
of the most-frequently utilized services is third-party design review, which is required for larger new development 
applications that meet certain thresholds per a City Council resolution that was adopted in 1996 (Attachment 2). The City 
received four responses for this particular service, primarily from urban design and planning firms, and evaluated those 
submissions based on the firms’ understanding of the work involved, prior experience and qualifications, quality and 
technical ability of the proposed staff, and pricing structure. Ultimately, CDD staff determined that only one of the four 
firms, Cannon Design Group, was qualified to provide the architectural design review service required by the City. The 
other three firms were qualified to provide urban design and planning services but did not have architectural staff that 
were specifically qualified to provide third-party design review services.   
Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group has provided architectural design services to the City for over 15 years and is well 
versed in the City’s design review guidelines and zoning requirements and has a strong depth of knowledge of the City’s 
development history.  Therefore, staff is recommending that the City continue to utilize Cannon Design Group to provide 
on-call design review services.  The term of the agreement would be for five years, ending on June 30, 2028, and has a not-
to-exceed amount of $500,000 (Attachment 1). 
BUDGET IMPACT:
For this agreement, there is no budgetary impact because design review services are related to specific planning 
applications and paid for by the applicant. Should any of the work performed be related to City projects, it will be 
211 of 575

--- page 212 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
accounted for within CDD’s annual operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement with Cannon Design Group
Att 2 - 1996 Design Review Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7203
212 of 575

--- page 213 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 1 of 10
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH CANNON DESIGN GROUP
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
FOR
DESIGN REVIEW AND OTHER RELATED SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and CANNON DESIGN GROUP, a S corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 700 
Larkspur Landing Circle, Suite 199, Larkspur, CA 94939.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain professional design review services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design review 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
213 of 575

--- page 214 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 2 of 10
Rev 9/22
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 4, 2023 and be 
completed on June 30, 2028.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $500,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
214 of 575

--- page 215 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 3 of 10
Rev 9/22
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S 
duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
215 of 575

--- page 216 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 4 of 10
Rev 9/22
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
216 of 575

--- page 217 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 5 of 10
Rev 9/22
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Manira Sandhir
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
Cannon Design Group
Attn:  Larry Cannon
700 Larkspur Landing Circle, Suite 199
Larkspur, CA 94939
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
217 of 575

--- page 218 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 6 of 10
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Christina Horrisberger
Community Development Director
Date
Larry Cannon
Its Authorized Agent
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Payment Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
218 of 575

--- page 219 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 7 of 10
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Conduct independent architectural design review services for commercial, residential, and mixed-use 
planning applications to evaluate and assess compliance with the City’s architectural design and site 
development standards.
Consult with staff to resolve any outstanding design issues and interpretation of design standards and 
recommendations.
219 of 575

--- page 220 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 8 of 10
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Personnel: Larry Cannon $175 per hour
Expenses: Cost plus 15%
No subconsultants are anticipated.
220 of 575

--- page 221 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 9 of 10
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $1,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
221 of 575

--- page 222 ---
Design Professional Services 2022
Page 10 of 10
Rev 9/22
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
222 of 575

--- page 223 ---
aa ee ee oe
Hohe. hs : aad

RESOLUTION NO. 67 1996
NNO. SF (1998) Hay 0 1039 AN “Sp
AMENDING THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS FOR CERTAIN GPEIQE AF Cl; CLEKY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS CHY fable.

(gdb se pe, toe we
wadiagliaprcs, DOLL,

RESOLVED, by the Council of the City of San Mateo,
California, that:

WHEREAS, this Council wishes to assure that larger projects
in the City of San Mateo have a superior quality of design; and

WHEREAS, the City adopted Resolution No. 7 (1991) which
established the City's procedures for design review; and

WHEREAS, this Council wishes to amend the design review
process;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED and ORDERED that:

_.... 1. A design review process for the City of San Mateo is
adopted as follows: | BR
A. Design Review Consultant. Design review shall be
conducted by a professional consultant under contract with
the City, who can demonstrate expertise in urban design,
site planning, architecture and landscape architecture as it
relates to a particular project.

B. Applicability. Design review be conducted on all
residential development projects containing six or more new
units, all commercial development projects with 10,000 or
more square feet of new space, all residential projects of
three stories or greater, or any other project, which the
Zoning Administrator determines that because of unique
design circumstances (e.g. unusual design solution, critical
location), requires design review.

C. Scope. All aspects of the development project's
site layout, architecture and landscaping, shall be
considered in this review. Consultants shall follow design
guidelines and adopted City policies in their review. The
development project's aesthetic and functional qualities as
well as its relationship to neighboring properties and uses
shall be considered.

D. Timing. The applicant may choose to initiate the

design review process either at the pre-application phase or
after submittal of an application. Every attempt should be

223 of 575


--- page 224 ---
made to resolve design issues early in the design review
process.

E. Authority. The design review consultant shall
receive direction from staff, shall review the project with
staff and prepare written comments for review and
consideration by the applicant, staff and any required
reviewing body. The consultant shall also attend meetings
with the applicant and reviewing bodies to explain design
recommendations. However, more than one review of a
development project may be required when significant changes
are made to a development project. The review and approval
or disapproval of the project shall be at the discretion of
any approval body which has jurisdiction over the
development project.

2. The Comprehensive Fee Schedule related to fees for

design review shall remain in full force and effect.

3. The Council finds that none of the provisions of this

resolution will have a significant effect.

4, A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with

' the City Clerk.

from the date of its adoption.

ATTEST:

5. This resolution shall become effective sixty (60) days

\ J
Sma. Aim
- ‘Nana CLERK :

DesigRev.Res

224 of 575


--- page 225 ---
Resolution adopted by the City Council of the

City of San Mateo, California, at a regular

meeting held on JUNE 3, 1996, by the following

vote of the Council members:

AYES: _Council Members.LEMPERT, HILL,
YATES, MACK and GUMBINGER

NOES: NONE

ABSENT: NONE

EACITY CLRK\A GENDASQND-QTR.96\6-3-96. END

225 of 575


--- page 226 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-3125
File ID: 23-7301
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
California Automated Permit Processing (CalAPP) Program – Grant Acceptance
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept a grant of $80,000 from the California Energy Commission Grant Program for the 
implementation of expedited review and automated permit processing for eligible solar energy system permits; and 
authorize the City Manager to execute all required documents in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
California Senate Bill 379 (2021-22) requires every city and county to implement an online, automated permitting platform 
that verifies code compliance and issues permits in real time or allows the jurisdiction to issue permits in real time for a 
residential solar energy system, which can include collection, distribution and/or storage, that is no larger than 38.4 
kilowatts. State law requires local jurisdictions with populations greater than 50,000 that are not otherwise exempt to 
satisfy these requirements by September 30, 2023. California Senate Bill 129 (2021) included an appropriation to the 
California Energy Commission (CEC) to support a grant program for local jurisdictions (cities and counties) to establish 
online solar permitting. The City applied for a CEC grant in December 2022. The City was added to the list of approved 
jurisdictions on December 29, 2022.
The proposed grant funding is critical to provide reimbursement costs of staff time so there is no cost to the City to 
implement this program. In anticipation of the legislative deadline, staff began working on the development of the design 
and integration of the CalAPP Program software at the beginning of 2023. The intent is to ensure that the training, 
implementation, and any design constraints are addressed for compliance within the timeline established in SB 379.  
Implementation of the CalAPP software is intended to reduce City costs and staff time to issue solar permits and to 
simplify the application and permitting process for applicants and property owners.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There will be no fiscal impact to the City to implement and use the CalAPP software. All costs associated with staff time for 
the development, training, and implementation of the CalAPP program will be reimbursed by the CEC grant program, up to 
the grant cap of $80,000. The costs related to development, training of staff, and implementation are anticipated to be 
within the amount of the grant fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Acceptance of the grant and implementation of the CalAPP program is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
226 of 575

--- page 227 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – CalAPP Grant Agreement
Att 3 – Exhibit A - CalAPP Program Terms and Conditions
Att 4 – Exhibit B - CalAPP Program Terms and Conditions
Att 5 – Exhibit C - Contacts List APP-22-049
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Titsworth, Building Official
mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7195
227 of 575

--- page 228 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
ADOPT A RESOLUTION FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF FUNDING IN THE AMOUNT OF $80,000 FROM THE 
CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION GRANT PROGRAM (SB 129) FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EXPEDITED 
REVIEW AND AUTOMATED PERMIT PROCESSING FOR ELIGIBLE SOLAR PV PERMITS KNOWN AS CALIFORNIA 
AUTOMATED PERMIT PROCESSING (CALAPP) PROGRAM (SB379)
WHEREAS, SB 379 requires the City to implement an online, automated permitting platform that verifies 
code compliance and issues permits in real time for eligible residential solar energy systems (“Project”); and 
WHEREAS, SB 129 authorized the Legislature and Governor of the State of California to provide funds for 
implementation of the California Automated Permit Processing (CalAPP) Program; and
WHEREAS, SB 129 delegated the California Energy Commission with the responsibility of establishing the 
necessary procedures for administration of this grant program; and
WHEREAS, On December 8, 2022, the City applied for and was awarded grant funding from the CalAPP 
Program for the Project; and
WHEREAS, the City will develop a process to integrate the automated platform with existing permit 
software; and 
WHEREAS, the City will implement training and education for the integration and use of the automated 
platform system; and 
WHEREAS, the City as the Applicant as awarded, will enter into an agreement with the State of California 
Energy Commission; and 
WHEREAS, the City has the legal authority to enter into a funding agreement with the State of California 
Energy Commission. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
Pursuant and subject to all of the terms and provisions of the California Budget Act of 2021, the City
Manager, or designee, is authorized and directed to prepare and file an application for funding with 
the California Energy Commission and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to obtain 
grant funding.
2.
The City is committed to the implementation and completion of the Project, consistent with the 
criteria for the grant funding.
3.
The City Manager, or designee, is authorized and directed to execute the funding agreement with 
the California Energy Commission and any amendments thereto.
228 of 575

--- page 229 ---
4.
The City Manager, or designee, is authorized and directed to submit any required documents, 
funding requests, and reports required to obtain the grant funding.
5.
The City certifies that the Project will comply with any laws and regulations including, but not 
limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), legal requirements for building codes, 
health and safety codes, the California Labor Code, disabled access laws, and that prior to 
commencement of the Project, all applicable permits will have been obtained.
6.
The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to take any other actions necessary to give effect to 
this resolution.
229 of 575

--- page 230 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
            
GRANT AGREEMENT
CEC-146 (Revised 3/2019)
CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION
RECIPIENT
AGREEMENT NUMBER
    City of San Mateo
APP-22-049
ADDRESS
AGREEMENT TERM 
12/09/2022 to 05/31/2027
330 W 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
The effective date of this Agreement is either the start date or the approval 
signature date by the California Energy Commission representative below, 
whichever is later. The California Energy Commission shall be the last 
party to sign. No work is authorized, nor shall any work begin, until on or 
after the effective date.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following Exhibits which are by this reference made a 
part of the agreement.
 Exhibit A – Application with Scope of Work
Page(s): 4
 Exhibit B – APP General Terms and Conditions
Page(s): 5
 Exhibit C – Contact List
Page(s): 1
REIMBURSABLE AMOUNT
$   80,000
MINIMUM MATCH SHARE REQUIRED 
$   0
TOTAL OF REIMBURSABLE AMOUNT AND MINIMUM MATCH 
$  80,000
The undersigned parties have read the attachments to this agreement and will comply with the standards and requirements contained therein.
CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION
CONTRACTOR 
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
DATE
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
DATE
April 3, 2023
NAME
NAME 
Adrienne Winuk
Drew Corbett
TITLE
TITLE
Contracts, Grants, and Loans Office Manager
City Manager
CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION ADDRESS
715 P Street, MS 18, Sacramento, CA 95814
230 of 575

--- page 231 ---
June 2022 
Page 1 of 4 
GFO-21-402 
CalAPP Attachment 01 
 ATTACHMENT 01 
Grant Application Form – EXHIBIT A 
California Automated Permit Processing (CalAPP) Program 
1. 
APPLICANT INFORMATION (REQUIRED)
Jurisdiction Name (please use full legal name as it would appear on the executed grant): 
Jurisdiction Type (select one): 
City
County
City and County
Current Estimated Population State of California Department of Finance Demographics
(https://dof.ca.gov/forecasting/Demographics/):
Less than 50,000
From 50,000 to 99,999
From 100,000 to 200,000
Greater than 200,000
Project Manager 
(serves as point 
of contact for all 
communications) 
Name 
Street Address 
City and 
Zip Code 
Phone Number 
E-Mail Address
2. 
FUNDING (REQUIRED)
Assigned Maximum Grant Amount (select one) 
Group 1 ($40,000): Population less than 50,000
Group 2 ($60,000): Population from 50,000 to 99,999
Group 3 ($80,000): Population from 100,000 to 200,000
Group 4 ($100,000): Population greater than 200,000
City of San Mateo
(650) 522-7195
mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org
Michael Titsworth
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo 
94403
231 of 575

--- page 232 ---
June 2022 
Page 2 of 4 
GFO-21-402 
CalAPP Attachment 01 
3. 
PROJECT INFORMATION (REQUIRED)
A.
Online, automated solar permitting platform to be adopted:
SolarAPP+
Other. If selected, complete Section 4 (“Additional Information”)
B.
Please select allowable budget item(s) anticipated to be used (Select
at least one):
Ongoing in-house staff labor costs associated directly with adoption and
maintenance of the platform
Ongoing third-party or consultant time associated directly with adoption and
maintenance of the platform
Ongoing staff training and education, specific to the platform
Ongoing training events for local installers, specific to the platform
Essential hardware or equipment necessary to support adoption of the
platform
Maintenance, such as adding support for energy storage paired with solar
energy system permitting, and subscription cost for permit tracking software
in support of adopted permitting platform
C.
Estimated Project Timeline*
*Enter actual dates if activities already began
Activity 
Date (Month/Year) 
Begin Development/Pilot 
Full Adoption 
Staff Training 
Training for Local Installers 
December 2022
September 2023
May 2023
June 2023
232 of 575

--- page 233 ---
June 2022 
Page 3 of 4 
GFO-21-402 
CalAPP Attachment 01 
4.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (if applicable)
NOTE: Only complete this section if you implement a platform other than SolarAPP+ 
Please identify whether the following features are supported by the implemented 
platform. All features are required for the platform to qualify for funding. CEC staff will 
verify prior to payment approval. 
Performs an automated plan review for residential solar energy 
systems that completes automatic code compliance checks based 
on user inputs (such as a contractor), thereby enabling or 
otherwise issuing permits instantly when the project is confirmed 
as code compliant, without the need for human review  
Yes
No
Supports online, immediate fee payment once an application is 
complete, which may include auto-invoicing of permit fee costs 
Yes
No
Supports immediate generation of a permit job card following 
payment confirmation 
Yes
No
Blocks noncompliant applications from receiving a permit 
Yes
No
EITHER: 1) Stand-alone permitting tool; OR 2) Integrates with 
current software and inspection platform already in use 
Yes
No
5.
REPORTING (REQUIRED)
Following adoption and verification of a qualifying platform, the 
Energy Commission may request, and the Recipient will provide if 
requested, annual data on the number of permits issued for solar 
energy systems and a solar energy system paired with an energy 
storage system including relevant characteristics of those systems, 
such as system capacity.  
Please indicate your acceptance of these terms. 
Yes
No
233 of 575

--- page 234 ---
June 2022 
Page 4 of 4 
GFO-21-402 
CalAPP Attachment 01 
6.
CERTIFICATION (REQUIRED)
•
I am authorized to complete and sign this form on behalf of the applicant.
•
I authorize the California Energy Commission to make any inquiries necessary
to verify the information presented in this application.
•
I have read and understand the terms and conditions contained in this
solicitation. I accept the terms and conditions contained in this solicitation on
behalf of the applicant, and the applicant is willing to enter into an agreement
with the Energy Commission to conduct the proposed project according to the
terms and conditions without negotiation.
•
I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that
the foregoing is true and correct.
Name of Authorized 
Representative: 
Title: 
Phone Number: 
E-mail Address:
Date: 
Signature of 
Authorized 
Representative: 
NOTE: Do not overlap signature with surrounding border lines.
Michael Titsworth
12/8/2022
Building Official
(650) 522-7195
mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org
234 of 575

--- page 235 ---
January 2023
Page 1 of 5
APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
Exhibit B
California Automated Permit Processing (CalAPP) Program
Terms and Conditions
1.
Background and Authority for this Grant
California Senate Bill 129 (2021) included an appropriation to the California Energy Commission (CEC) to 
support a grant program for cities, counties, or cities and counties to establish online solar permitting.
2.
Documents Incorporated by Reference and Priority
Incorporated by reference into this agreement are the following documents: 
A.
Grant Funding Opportunity (GFO) 21-402. 
B.
Recipient’s application to CalAPP.  
As between the incorporated documents and the remainder of this Agreement, the rest of this 
Agreement takes priority in case of a conflict.   
3.
Budget, Invoices, and Payments
a)
The CEC is only obligated to reimburse the Recipient for paid costs that are (1) incurred during 
the Agreement Term; (2) invoiced within the required timeframes of this Agreement; (3) not 
more than this Agreement’s budget; and (4) reasonable, actual, and allowable expenses under 
this Agreement.
b)
Recipient acknowledges that the funds under this Agreement have a liquidation date of June 30, 
2027, a legal timeframe after which the CEC has no authority to pay the funds.  In addition, it 
takes the CEC administrative time to review, approve, work with the Recipient to correct any 
errors in, and request the State Controller’s Office to pay invoices.  Accordingly, Recipient 
acknowledges that if it does not submit accurate invoices by March 30, 2027, for all amounts 
due under the Agreement, it risks not receiving payment, and relinquishes all rights to such 
payments should the CEC not pay it by the liquidation date.  Recipient acknowledges that time is 
of the essence in invoicing by March 30, 2027, for all amounts due under this Agreement.  
The Recipient may request payment from the Energy Commission at any time during the term of this 
Agreement after successful adoption of a qualifying solar permitting platform as verified by the CEC, but 
no more frequently than monthly. Recipient must use the CAM provided template invoice spreadsheet.
c)
If invoicing for in-house staff time, the template invoice spreadsheet must identify the 
employee’s name, hours worked, and billing rate to be included as a reimbursable expense.
d)
Unallowable costs include:
•
Software not related to the adoption of a qualifying online, automated permitting platform.
•
Any costs incurred or activities conducted prior to entering into a grant agreement with the 
Energy Commission or incurred after the grant agreement has ended.
235 of 575

--- page 236 ---
January 2023
Page 2 of 5
APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
•
Typically excluded items such as food and beverages. 
•
Advertising costs.
•
Fines and penalties. 
•
Permit processing fees charged by operator of an online platform. 
•
All other costs not identified as allowable. 
•
Unreasonable amounts or rates.  
  
4.
Certification 
By signing this Agreement, Recipient hereby certifies that all funds received pursuant to this Agreement 
shall be spent exclusively for its CalAPP project in compliance with this Agreement.  The Recipient 
further certifies that it shall comply with all applicable laws in performing this Agreement.  
5.
Nondiscrimination Statement of Compliance 
During the performance of this Agreement, the Recipient and its subcontractors will not unlawfully 
discriminate, harass, or allow harassment against any employee or applicant for employment because of 
sex, sexual orientation, race, color, ancestry, religious creed, national origin, physical disability (including 
HIV and AIDS), mental disability, medical condition, age, marital status, or denial of family care leave. 
The Recipient and its subcontractors will ensure that the evaluation and treatment of their employees 
and applicants for employment are free from such discrimination and harassment. 
The Recipient and its subcontractors shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Employment and 
Housing Act (Government Code Sections 12990 et seq.) and the applicable regulations promulgated 
thereunder (California Code of Regulations, Title 2, Section 11000 et seq.). The applicable regulations of 
the Fair Employment and Housing Commission implementing Government Code Section 12990 (a-f), set 
forth in Chapter 5 of Division 4.1 of Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations, are incorporated into 
this Agreement by reference and made a part of it as if set forth in full. The Recipient and its 
subcontractors will give written notice of their obligations under this section to labor organizations with 
which they have a collective bargaining or other Agreement. 
The Recipient shall include the nondiscrimination and compliance provisions of this section in all 
subcontracts to perform work under this Agreement.
6.
Drug-Free Workplace Certification 
By signing this Agreement, the Recipient certifies under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of 
California that it will comply with the requirements of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1990 
(Government Code Section 8350 et seq.) and will provide a drug-free workplace by taking the following 
actions: 
1)
Publish a statement notifying employees that unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, 
possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited, and specifying actions to be taken 
against employees for violations as required by Government Code Section 8355(a). 
236 of 575

--- page 237 ---
January 2023
Page 3 of 5
APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
2)
Establish a Drug-Free Awareness Program as required by Government Code Section 8355(b) to 
inform employees about all of the following:
 
• The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 
• The person’s or organization’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; 
• Any available counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and 
• Penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations. 
3)
Provide, as required by Government Code Section 8355(c), that every employee who works on 
the proposed project: 
• Will receive a copy of the company's drug-free policy statement; and 
• Will agree to abide by the terms of the company's statement as a condition of employment on 
the project. 
In addition to any other rights and remedies available to the CEC, failure to comply with these 
requirements may result in suspension of payments under the Agreement or termination of the 
Agreement or both, and the Recipient may be ineligible for any future state awards if the CEC 
determines that any of the following has occurred: (1) the Recipient has made false certification, or (2) 
violates the certification by failing to carry out the requirements as noted above.
7.
Americans With Disabilities Act 
By signing this Agreement, the Recipient assures the CEC that it complies with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Section 12101, et seq.), which prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of disability, as well as applicable regulations and guidelines issued pursuant to the ADA.
8.
Accounting and Audit
The Recipient will keep separate, complete, and correct accounting of the costs involved in completing 
the Agreement.  The Recipient agrees that the CEC, the Bureau of State Audits, or their designated 
representative shall have the right to review and to copy any records and supporting documentation 
pertaining to the performance of this Agreement. The Recipient agrees to maintain such records for 
possible audit for a minimum of three (3) years after the Agreement ends in any way. The Recipient 
agrees to allow the auditor(s) access to such records during normal business hours and to allow 
interviews of any employees who might reasonably have information related to such records. Further, 
the Recipient agrees to include a similar right of the CEC, the Bureau of State Audits, or their designated 
representative, to audit records and interview staff in any subcontract related to performance of this 
Agreement.  These rights and responsibilities are in addition to and not restrictive of those in Section 16. 
Access to Sites and Records. 
9.
Public Works
The Recipient is responsible for complying with all applicable laws, which can include public works 
requirements under the Labor Code.  Recipient acknowledges acceptance of Agreement funds may 
trigger public works laws (Labor Code Section 1720 et seq.), a requirement of which is to pay prevailing 
237 of 575

--- page 238 ---
January 2023
Page 4 of 5
APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
wages, applying to its entire project. If the project is public works then it is subject to compliance 
monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.   By signing this Agreement, 
Recipient certifies that it shall comply with all applicable Public Works laws and requirements.  
10. Intellectual Property
As between the Recipient and the CEC, the Recipient owns all intellectual property it or its 
subcontractors create under this Agreement. The CEC has a no-cost, non-exclusive, transferable, 
irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide, perpetual license to use, publish, translate, modify, and reproduce 
all intellectual property, such as the products identified in Section 2. above, for governmental purposes 
the Recipient or its subcontractors create under this agreement. The Recipient shall include a provision 
securing these rights for the CEC in all of its subcontractor agreements related to performance of this 
Agreement.  
11. Amendment
No amendment or variation of this Agreement shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by both 
the Recipient and CEC.  
12. Governing Law
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California as to interpretation and performance.
13. Independent Capacity
In the performance of this Agreement, Recipient and its agents, subcontractors, and employees will act 
in an independent capacity and not as officers, employees, or agents of the CEC or the State of 
California.
14. Severability
If any provision of this Agreement is unenforceable or held to be unenforceable, all other provisions of 
this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
15. Waiver
No waiver of any breach of this Agreement constitutes waiver of any other breach. All remedies in this 
Agreement will be taken and construed as cumulative, meaning in addition to every other remedy 
provided in the Agreement or by law.
16. Access to Sites and Records 
The Recipient shall provide during the Agreement and for at least 3 years after the Agreement ends in 
any way to the CEC or its representatives reasonable access to all project sites and to all records related 
to this Agreement.  These rights and responsibilities are in addition to and not restrictive of those in 
Section 8. Accounting and Audit. 
238 of 575

--- page 239 ---
January 2023
Page 5 of 5
APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
17. Termination Without Cause
The CEC may terminate this Agreement without cause upon giving written notice to the Recipient. In this 
event, the Recipient will use all reasonable efforts to mitigate its expenses and obligations.
18. Third-Party Beneficiary
The Recipient shall in every subcontract under this Agreement include a provision indicating the CEC is a 
third-party beneficiary to the agreement.   
19. Survival of Terms
The following terms survive this Agreement no matter how the agreement ends, such as by its own 
terms or via termination: 
•
8.  Accounting and Audit 
•
9. Public Works
•
10. Intellectual Property
•
12. Governing Law 
•
14. Severability
•
15. Waiver
•
16. Access to Sites and Records
•
18. Third-Party Beneficiary 
239 of 575

--- page 240 ---
Exhibit C
CONTACT LIST
January 2023
Page 1 of 1
             APP-22-049
    
        
City of San Mateo
California Energy Commission
Recipient
Commission Agreement Manager:
Lucio Hernandez
California Energy Commission
716 P Street, MS-45
Sacramento, CA  95814
Phone: (916) 477-1799
e-mail: Lucio.Hernandez@energy.ca.gov  
Project Manager:
Michael Titsworth - Building Official
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: 
(650) 522-7195
e-mail:  mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org
Confidential Deliverables/Products
California Energy Commission
Contracts, Grants, and Loans Officer
715 P Street MS-18
Sacramento, CA 95814
Administrator:
Christina Horrisberger – CDD Director
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: 
(650) 522-7210
e-mail: chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org
  
Invoices, Progress Reports and Non-
Confidential Deliverables to:
California Energy Commission
Accounting Officer
715 P Street MS-2
Sacramento, CA 95814
Email PDF of Payment Request invoice 
packet to: invoices@energy.ca.gov  
Accounting Officer:
Michael Titsworth – Accounting Manager
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: 
(650) 522-7195
e-mail:   mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org
Legal Notices:
Tatyana Yakshina
Grants Manager
715 P Street MS-18
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 
(916) 827-9294
e-mail: tatyana.yakshina@energy.ca.gov
Recipient Legal Notices:
Office of City Attorney
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: 
(650) 522-7020
e-mail:    
CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org
240 of 575

--- page 241 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 23-7324
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Purchase First Time Homebuyer Unit – Supplemental Budget Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an appropriation of up to $368,400 of restricted fund balance from the City Housing Fund 
for the purchase, closing costs, minor home repairs and a subordinate loan for a First Time Homebuyer unit located at 211 
S. Fremont Street, #406 with a net-zero impact to the General Fund and authorize the City Manager to execute all 
documents required to effectuate the transaction.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo established a First Time Homebuyer (FTB) program in 1988 with 78 condominium units at Meadow 
Court, followed by 96 units at Gateway Commons in 1989. These two condominium projects were sponsored and 
subsidized by the City through the dedication of land, in partnership with nonprofit developers MidPen Housing and 
BRIDGE Housing. The purpose of the FTB program is to promote home ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-
income households and to preserve ongoing affordability for future buyers upon resale of the units. 
 
Units in the FTB program rely on recorded affordability restriction documents, which set sales price restrictions and give 
the City the first option to purchase upon resale in order to ensure another eligible buyer purchases the unit at an 
affordable price. The executed agreements give the City the first option to purchase. Typically, when a unit becomes 
available for sale, the City exercises its option to purchase and assigns that option directly to a new buyer; therefore, the 
sales agreement is executed by the seller and the new buyer. However, in unique circumstances, the City will purchase the 
unit directly and then resell it to a new buyer. This is done in situations where the City determines it is necessary to avoid 
losing the subsidized unit to the open market. The last City purchase and subsequent resale was in 2019. 
 
The unit at 211 S. Fremont Street, #406 is located in the Gateway Commons condominium project. The unit was purchased 
by the original homeowner in 1997.  In 2022, the original homeowner passed away and a family member was appointed as 
the executor for the sale of the unit. The executor has not made mortgage payments since the original homeowner passed 
away. Due to nonpayment of the mortgage from the time that the original homeowner passed away to present, the 
mortgage is in default and at risk of foreclosure if the default is not cured by April 18, 2023. A new income eligible 
homebuyer has been identified and was in the process of acquiring a loan through Silicon Valley Bank. On March 10, 2023, 
it was announced that Silicon Valley Bank had collapsed, which brings a level of uncertainty to the ability of the homebuyer 
to close the sale by the April 18, 2023 deadline. 
 
Silicon Valley Bank was involved in another recent FTB resale and funded a loan on March 14, 2023 because the loan was 
considered to be in the pipeline. However, due to the uncertainty of Silicon Valley Bank’s continued operations, it is not 
241 of 575

--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
known if they will fund the loan to enable the resale of the subject unit at 211 S. Fremont St. #406. The Community 
Development Department wishes to have a contingency plan in place to purchase the unit and then resell it to an income 
eligible buyer in the case that Silicon Valley Bank does not fund this loan. The expenditure would be temporary, as the City 
will be able to recapture the costs to purchase the unit, less closing costs, additional funds for the subordinate loan and 
any necessary minor home repairs, upon resale to a qualified homebuyer. At the time that the unit was purchased in 1997, 
the homeowner was given a $50,000 subordinate loan from the City to assist with the purchase of the unit as is the 
practice in the FTB program. The loan accrued interest for the first 20 years. Per the terms of the recorded affordability 
restriction agreement, however, at year 21, the loan went into forgiveness, meaning that 10% of the loan and accrued 
interest is forgiven on an annual basis until no amount due remains. 
 
The current loan balance is $20,000. The subordinate loan proceeds of $50,000 are typically rolled over into a new 
subordinate loan for the new buyer; however, in this situation only $20,000 is available for the new homebuyer. The City 
will need to provide an additional $30,000 to the new homebuyer so that they receive the full $50,000 loan. The $30,000 
contribution is necessary even if the City does not proceed with purchasing the unit because the primary loan amount is 
based on the City subordinate loan of $50,000. The City will only proceed with directly purchasing the subject property in 
the case that Silicon Valley Bank does not fund the loan, or the new buyer is unable to secure a loan with another lending 
institution to be able to close by the deadline.
 
The City Manager or their designee is authorized to purchase affordable ownership residential units in the City, per Section 
3.62.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, at the purchase price prescribed in the applicable affordability agreement for 
purposes of resale to a qualified buyer. The City Manager has the authority to purchase the subject unit for the purchase 
price of $334,400 based on Section 3.62.020 of the Municipal Code, but approval is needed for additional expenses related 
to the transaction, which include an estimated $19,000 for home repairs, $15,000 for closing costs and $30,000 for the 
subordinate loan. In the case that the City proceeds with purchasing the unit, the $30,000 contribution for the subordinate 
loan will be deducted from the City’s proceeds, which would be $304,400; therefore, no additional funds are needed for 
the City to provide the additional funds for the subordinate loan. The total appropriation needed is $368,400. Table 1 
summarizes the City’s contribution by scenario. Scenario 1 is if Silicon Valley Bank (or another financial institution) funds 
the loan and Scenario 2 is if the City purchases and resells the unit.
Table 1. City Contribution Scenarios
 
Scenario 1: Silicon 
Valley Bank Loan
Scenario 2: City 
Purchase/Resale
Unit Purchase
$0
$334,400
Home Repairs
$0
$19,000
Closing Costs
$0
$15,000
Additional Contribution 
for Subordinate Loan
$30,000
($30,000)[1]
Total City Contribution
$30,000
$368,400
City Balance Remaining
$338,400
$0
Resale Proceeds
N/A
$304,400
[1] In this scenario, the $30,000 contribution would be subtracted from the City’s resale proceeds.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no net impact to the General Fund for the purchase of this unit, as it will be paid through the City Housing Fund 
(Fund 250) and is a temporary expenditure because the amount expended to purchase the unit will be recaptured upon 
resale to a qualified homebuyer. The closing costs, any necessary minor home repairs, and the additional subordinate loan 
amount will be absorbed by the City Housing Fund. As previously mentioned, the City will only proceed with directly 
242 of 575

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
purchasing the FTB unit if the loan is not funded by a financial institution by the required deadline. In the case that the City 
does not purchase the unit, the total City contribution will be $30,000 for the subordinate loan to the new homebuyer, 
which will be absorbed by the City Housing Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager
emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
243 of 575

--- page 244 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF RESTRICTED FUND BALANCE OF THE CITY 
HOUSING FUND TO THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT IN THE 2022-23 BUDGET
WHEREAS, the Community Development Department wishes to purchase a First Time Homebuyer unit 
located at 211 S. Fremont, #406 for the purpose of preserving it as an affordable unit; and
WHEREAS, an amendment to the Community Department’s 2022-23 budget will be necessary to fund 
this expense; and
WHEREAS, sufficient funds are available in the City Housing Fund account to cover the cost of this 
purchase; and
WHEREAS, the purchase price of the unit will be reimbursed to the City Housing Fund upon resale to a 
new qualified owner; and
WHEREAS, the City Manager has the authority to purchase the subject unit for the purchase price of 
$334,400 based on Section 3.62.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, additional expenses are needed to complete the transaction, which include an estimated 
$19,000 for home repairs, $15,000 for closing costs and $30,000 for a subordinate loan; and
WHEREAS, the First Time Homebuyer program provides qualified homebuyers with a $50,000 
subordinate loan to help facilitate the purchase of the unit and preserve the unit’s affordability; and
WHEREAS, upon resale of the subject unit, only $20,000 is available from the original owner’s 
subordinate loan proceeds because the loan is now in forgiveness, meaning that 10% of the loan and accrued 
interest is forgiven on an annual basis until no amount due remains; and
WHEREAS, $30,000 is needed from the City for the subordinate loan contribution for the new 
homebuyer in order for them to receive the full $50,000 subordinate loan contribution; and
WHEREAS, $30,000 will be deducted from the City’s proceeds upon resale for a subordinate loan 
contribution for the new homebuyer; and
WHEREAS, the total appropriation to complete the purchase and resell the unit to a qualified buyer is 
$368,400; and
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires City Council approval by resolution for 
supplemental appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, the impact of amending the operating budget will be offset by revenues which have been 
received and tracked in the City Housing Fund account, resulting in no net impact to the General Fund. 
244 of 575

--- page 245 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation of $368,400 of restricted fund balance from the City Housing 
Fund is approved to increase the Community Development Department 2022-23 budget. 
245 of 575

--- page 246 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue San 
Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 23-3133
File ID: 23-7352
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE:
April 3, 2023
SUBJECT: Fiscal Year 2022-23 Community Development Block Grant – Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $244,692.30 of restricted fund balance from the Community Development Block Grant 
Fund to the fiscal year 2022-23 Community Development Block Grant operating expenditures for a total budget of 
$502,076.30.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program provides flexible funding for community development projects 
and programs to assist individuals and families from extremely low- to moderate-income households, as defined by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The City receives an annual entitlement grant based on a national 
formula and has participated in this program since 1977.
In March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was passed, which provided additional 
funding to the City of San Mateo through the CDBG program to specifically address the COVID pandemic. On January 4, 
2021, the City Council approved the programming of the CARES Act funding, known as CDBG-CV, including $520,745 to 
Samaritan House for a rental assistance program. The contract to Samaritan House was awarded without a set expenditure 
time limit, but the contract terminates when the funds have been fully expended. At the beginning of fiscal year 2022-23, 
there was $244,692.30 of remaining CDBG-CV funds in the Samaritan House contract.
City Council adopted the fiscal year 2022-23 CDBG Annual Plan on May 2, 2022. The adopted 2022-23 budget appropriated 
$257,384 for operating expenditures in the CDBG program based upon the annual award from HUD. The appropriation to 
the CDBG operating budget did not include the remaining $244,692.30 in CDBG-CV funds, which were previously 
appropriated in fiscal year 2020-21 for the Samaritan House contract. Financial procedures of the City require that funds be 
re-appropriated if they are not fully expended after two years from the date of contract execution. Therefore, the balance 
of the CDBG-CV funds must be appropriated into the program year budget, which will increase the CDBG operating 
expenditure budget to $502,076.30. The appropriation is necessary in order for the City to meet its obligations to the 
various subrecipients of CDBG funding in the program areas of administration, community funding, and economic 
development. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Community Development Block Grant (Fund 215) budget currently has an approved budget of $257,384 without any 
remaining funds available to meet the City’s obligations to the CDBG subrecipients. A funding amount of $244,692.30 is to be 
appropriated to cover the remaining cost of the CDBG-CV rental assistance contract to amend the grand total of the 2022-23 
program year budget to $502,076.30.
246 of 575

--- page 247 ---
Adoption of the resolution will appropriate an additional $244,692.30 from the Community Development Block Grant Fund 
restricted fund balance to the 2022-23 Community Development Block Grant operating expenditure budget, revising it to a 
total value of $502,076.30. With the approval of the appropriation, sufficient funding will be available to complete the 2022-
23 CDBG Projects. 
The CDBG grant funding operates on a reimbursement basis. All CDBG expenditures are reimbursed by HUD on a quarterly 
basis, therefore there is no impact to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu,
Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
247 of 575

--- page 248 ---
248 of 575

--- page 249 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.  
 (2023)
APPROPRIATE $244,692.30 FROM COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT RESTRICTED FUND 
BALANCE TO THE 2022 – 2023 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROGRAM 
BUDGET
WHEREAS, the City received $770,897 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and 
Urban Development for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program for the 2022-2023 annual 
grant; and
WHEREAS, the City Council adopted the fiscal year 2022-23 operating budget which appropriated 
$257,384 in CDBG annual operating expenditures on June 20, 2022; and
WHEREAS, in March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was passed 
which provided additional funding to the City of San Mateo through the CDBG program known as CDBG-CV to 
specifically address the COVID pandemic the City; and
WHEREAS, the City Council previously awarded a contract to Samaritan House in the amount of 
$531,000 CDBG-CV funds for a rental assistance program on January 4, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the remaining available funds for the Samaritan House rental assistance program was 
$244,692.30 at the start of fiscal year 2022-23 and was not re-appropriated at the beginning of the fiscal 
year; and
WHEREAS, City financial procedures require that unexpended funds must be re-appropriated if they 
are not fully expended after two years from contract execution; and
WHEREAS, the remaining available budget for the CDBG Program is approximately $0 and the City 
must appropriate additional funds to fulfill obligations to sub-recipients for program delivery; and
WHEREAS, a budget appropriation of $244,692.30 is required to address the deficit; and
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires City Council approval by resolution for 
supplemental appropriations to the City budget.
that:
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
1.   
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a 
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
2 .
An appropriation of funds in the amount of $244,692.30 from the Community Development 
249 of 575

--- page 250 ---
Block Grant Fund restricted fund balance to the fiscal year 2022-23 Community Development Block 
Grant operating expenditures for a total budget of $502,076.30 is approved.
250 of 575

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7247-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 3, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Leaf Blower Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a report and presentation on leaf blower regulations and provide feedback and guidance on potential leaf blower 
policy approaches.
BACKGROUND:
As part of the 2022-23 Strategic Plan, the San Mateo City Council asked staff to evaluate leaf blower policy options and 
best practices from other cities. Regulating leaf blowers can help address their environmental and greenhouse gas 
emission reduction impact, as well as noise and air quality impacts. This report provides an overview of leaf blower 
impacts and the City’s history with leaf blower regulations since this topic was extensively reviewed by City Council 
between 2011 and 2013 and revisited by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in 2020 and most recently in 
November 2022. This report reviews leaf blower policy approaches for the City Council’s feedback and consideration. 
CITY HISTORY WITH LEAF BLOWER REGULATIONS
The City of San Mateo currently has time of day restrictions for leaf blowers in residential zoning districts and in areas 
bordering residentially-zoned neighborhoods. San Mateo Municipal Code Section 10.80 “Operation of Leaf Blowers” 
(Attachment 4) limits the use of leaf blowers to between 8:00 am to 5:00 pm on weekdays and between 9:00 am to 5:00 
pm on Saturdays. The use of leaf blowers is prohibited on Sundays and holidays. In addition, the code requires that leaf 
blowers run at low speeds and use nozzle extensions to minimize noise. These restrictions have been in place since 1997.
 
In 2011 through 2013, staff from the Community Development Department led a comprehensive exploration of leaf 
blower regulations in response to community complaints about noise and air quality impacts. Staff brought forward 
reports to City Council on five separate occasions.  At a March 2013 City Council meeting, staff presented three options for 
updating the leaf blower ordinance: 
1)
Improve enforcement of current ordinance 
2)
Implement a certification and enforcement program limiting leaf blowers that meet a 65 decibel (dB) threshold
3)
Implement complete ban on gas and electric leaf blowers
Ultimately, the City Council did not move forward to any of the three options primarily because of concerns of the 
economic impact to commercial landscapers and challenges with enforcement. Many of the commercial landscapers in San 
Mateo are small businesses or sole-proprietorships and many are also minority-owned. A complete leaf blower ban would 
require landscapers to spend more time per job site, impacting the number of jobs they could complete and therefore 
potentially reduce their revenues. Establishing a new decibel limit on leaf blowers would require many commercial 
landscapers to purchase new equipment, another financial burden to landscapers. If commercial landscapers passed on 
251 of 575

--- page 252 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the cost of the new equipment or job time to their customers, concerns were raised regarding affordability for those with 
fixed incomes who rely on landscaping services. Additionally, for all of the policy options, City Council was concerned 
about the financial commitment from the City to develop effective enforcement. 
 
During the pandemic, as a result of many people working from home, the City received an uptick in complaints about leaf 
blower noise, which prompted the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission to request that leaf blower policy options 
be brought before them for consideration. At the November 12, 2020, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
received a report on leaf blower regulations and different policy approaches to restricting gas leaf blower use. Staff 
presented four options for consideration:
1)
Noise and/or time of day restrictions
2)
Temporary leaf blower ban days
3)
Gas leaf blower ban, and 
4)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban.
The majority of Commissioners declined to make a recommendation to City Council to update leaf blower regulations. 
Commissioners acknowledged that commercial landscapers, who are also small businesses, would be significantly 
impacted by potential leaf blower restrictions and were likely already struggling to retain customers in the face of the 
pandemic. Commissioners were also concerned about recommending the Council take up leaf blower regulations at a time 
when there were so many other pressing COVID-19 issues and community concerns. Finally, Commissioners were 
interested to understand the State’s timeline to phase out the sale of new gas equipment to help evaluate potential leaf 
blower regulations. Commissioners directed staff to prioritize incentives for electric leaf blowers.  
On July 1, 2021, staff launched the Electric Leaf Blower rebate program. The program provides a rebate of up to 75% of the 
purchase price (maximum $500) to commercial landscapers and up to 50% of the purchase price (maximum $100) to 
residents. Using the City’s business license information, mailers were sent to landscaping business in San Mateo to alert 
businesses about the rebate opportunity. The mailing list included roughly 150 businesses. Rebate information was also 
included in the City’s e-newsletter and social media channels. To date, the City has issued rebates to 8 landscaping 
businesses and 32 residents. The average rebate for a landscaping business is $375 and the average rebate for a resident is 
$75. 
ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT AND CITY PARKS OPERATIONS 
City Parks staff have been piloting electric equipment since 2018 and recognizing the State’s goal to prohibit the sale of 
two-stroke engine equipment and the City’s climate goals, is preparing for a transition to electric equipment and making a 
conscious effort to reduce reliance on leaf blowers. The Parks Department goal is to provide safe and attractive parks 
while maintaining current levels of debris removal. Parks Department maintains 280,890 square feet of parking lot and 
pathways. 
During the fiscal year 2020-21, the Parks Department purchased $8,000 in electric equipment including backpack and 
handheld blowers, hedge trimmers, chain saws and weed trimmers. Using the electric equipment in the Japanese Garden 
and on Spare the Air Days has helped Parks staff identify challenges and limitations of electric leaf blower technology. One 
major challenge with electric leaf blowers is battery life limitations. In most park settings a blower with 2 batteries 
provides about 45 minutes of use and requires 2 hours for recharge. While electric leaf blowers work well for small sites, 
they have been challenging to use at larger park settings where staff would have to use multiple batteries. Another major 
limitation is the equipment performance, as electric leaf blowers are less powerful and therefore take staff longer to 
accomplish the same work compared to using gas leaf blowers. 
Staff provided cost estimates for transitioning to electric blower equipment. Currently the Parks Department has an 
inventory of 12 gas blowers. An electric backpack blower costs $300 plus four batteries that cost $300 each, amounting to 
$1,500 for each replacement. The Parks Department estimates an $18,000 initial investment to replace the gas blower 
equipment and $14,000 every 2 years for battery replacements. Additionally, there is also the cost of electricity and 
charging infrastructure. For comparison, a typical gas-powered blower costs $375 plus the cost of fuel. Parks’ main shop 
252 of 575

--- page 253 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
area requires an estimated $20,000 of electrical upgrades for charging batteries to use electric equipment on a consistent 
basis. Additional upgrades to field shops will be necessary but have not yet been evaluated. 
In addition to transitioning to electric equipment, the Parks Department is requesting a budget allocation for a multi-
purpose sweeper that will be used for removal of pathway and parking lot debris and to reduce the use of leaf blower 
equipment. This budget request will be presented as part of a separate agenda item. The sweeper has certified 4-star 
containment of pollution, essentially eliminating the dust levels created by the blowers currently used. Additionally, the 
proposed sweeper would help create efficiencies in staffing, freeing highly-skilled landscape maintenance staff from 
backpack blower detail. At this time every Parks staff person has some part of their week dedicated to debris removal. This 
sweeper will efficiently complete the task of debris removal and eliminate more dust than possible with backpack blowers. 
STATE REGULATIONS
In October 2021, California became the first state with a statewide ban on new gas leaf blowers and lawn mowers when 
Governor Newsom signed Assembly Bill 1346 prohibiting the sale of new small off-road engines beginning January 1, 2024. 
The California Air Resources Board (CARB) regulates leaf blowers as part of small off-road engines (SORE) category. SORE 
are defined as spark-ignition engines rated at or below 19 kilowatts, primarily used for lawn, garden, and other outdoor 
power equipment such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, hedge trimmers, and chippers. SORE smog-forming emissions are 
significant; CARB estimates that one hour of commercial leaf blowing activity emits the same pollution as driving a 2017 
Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles. CARB recognizes that the cumulative volume of smog-forming emissions from SORE 
equipment now exceed those from passenger cars on an annual basis. It is important to note that the prohibition of the 
sale of new SORE equipment in 2024 will still allow for the use of older SORE equipment. As a result, local restrictions still 
make sense to evaluate. 
POLICY APPROACHES
There are three main policy approaches local jurisdictions use to regulate leaf blowers: 1) time of day restrictions, 2) gas 
leaf blower ban, and 3) complete gas and electric leaf blower ban. The following details the different policy approaches 
and provides examples of cities that have taken on the policy approach.
1)
Time of day restrictions
Enacting noise and time of day restrictions is the most common approach employed by jurisdictions to manage the noise 
impacts of leaf blower equipment. While time of use and noise restrictions are effective in managing noise pollution, they 
do not address environmental impact or smog forming emissions. Although the City of San Mateo currently has time of 
day restrictions and a nozzle extension requirement already in place, the City could explore establishing a schedule and 
zone system to manage leaf blowing activity and/or narrowing the time restrictions.  In addition, the City may want to 
consider expanding the time of day restrictions to impact areas of the City currently not covered by the ordinance as more 
mixed-use development is constructed in formerly commercial-only zones.
 
An example of this approach is the City of Burlingame’s leaf blowing schedule and zone approach, which was adopted in 
2012. This approach helps address noise pollution since it limits leaf blower activity to specific days of the week. Their 
ordinance requires the following:

Commercial blowers may be used on only ONE day per week, per area, with an extra day for R3 and R4 buildings 
on Fridays.

Residents may use their own blowers on Saturdays from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm and Sundays from 10:00 am to 2:00 
pm, as well as on their assigned weekday.
The City of Burlingame developed a map to delineate the different neighborhood zones and schedules. Implementation of 
this ordinance relied on residents informing their gardening services of the operational requirements. 
 
Alternatively, some cities have narrower time restrictions than the City of San Mateo. For example, the Town of Atherton 
has a later leaf blower schedule for weekends: 10:00 am – 5:00 pm on Saturdays and 10:00 am – 3:00 pm on Sundays. This 
is likely because many feel that leaf blower noise is a nuisance on weekend mornings. 
253 of 575

--- page 254 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2)
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
Banning gas leaf blowers helps reduce smog-forming emissions but only partially addresses the noise pollution aspect. 
Electric leaf blowers can be as loud as gas leaf blowers and will have similar impacts in terms of kicking up particles and 
creating fugitive dust. However, electric leaf blowers do not create engine-related fumes and thus can help mitigate air 
quality concerns. 
 
One of the primary concerns about electric leaf blowers include durability and battery life as discussed earlier in this report 
regarding City Parks operations. Electric leaf blowers can be cord-powered or battery-powered. Both types of electric leaf 
blowers can be easily adapted for most household personal use, but commercial landscapers must consider how long the 
equipment will last in the field. Cord-powered electric blowers are not viable on all types of property, limit the range of 
use, and are therefore impractical for commercial landscapers. Battery-powered electric blowers require commercial 
landscapers to purchase multiple batteries, increasing the costs to landscapers. 
 
Over twenty cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans and recently, several Bay Area cities have taken up gas 
leaf blower bans:

The Town of Portola Valley adopted an ordinance in 2019 with an enforcement date of January 2021; 

The City of Oakland adopted an ordinance in October 2020 with and enforcement date of April 2021; and

The City of Alameda adopted an ordinance in September 2021 with an enforcement date of January 1, 2023; and

The City of Novato adopted ordinance in June 2022 with an enforcement date of July 2023. 
In February 2022, the Atherton Town Council was divided on whether to move forward with a gas leaf blower ban and 
directed staff to do more research and outreach to residents. The Menlo Park City Council will consider a gas leaf blower 
ban in 2023 with a July 2024 enforcement date. 
Staff reached out to the City of Alameda, Town of Portola Valley, and City of Los Altos and received feedback that 
enforcement is the primary challenge with gas leaf blower bans. Typically, this type of ordinance relies on community 
members to report violations to the city’s nonemergency phone number and enforcement is handled by the code 
enforcement division. Oftentimes, when a code enforcement officer goes to investigate the violation, the subject is gone 
or no longer using the device. Law requires the code enforcement officer to personally witness the Municipal Code 
violation in order to enforce the violation. Enforcement can range from a verbal warning with education on the municipal 
code to issuance of a citation. If the subject is still on-scene but not using the device, the code enforcement officer can 
take the opportunity to provide education about the ordinance. 
The Town of Portola Valley does not have a full-time code enforcement officer and has relied on sending educational 
letters to addresses where violations are reported. Portola Valley staff receive a handful complaints each month and have 
not issued any formal citations. The City of Los Altos has had a leaf blower ban in place since 1991 and continues to face 
challenges with enforcement. According to a letter submitted by a citizen advocacy group, the City of Los Altos Police 
Department receives a high volume of complaints, roughly 350 per year. 
The City of Palo Alto enacted a gas leaf blower ban in 2005 and enforcement has fluctuated over the years. Palo Alto staff 
report the same challenges with enforcement as other cities have experienced. In 2022, Palo Alto made two recent 
updates regarding leaf blowers. The Palo Alto City Council voted to in increase fines ($250 for the first violation, $500 for 
the second, and $1,000 for subsequent violations). The City of Palo Alto also hired a code enforcement officer whose full-
time role is dedicated to leaf blower education and enforcement. The code enforcement officer has prioritized proactive 
engagement with landscapers and homeowner associations and has been in the role for 10 months. For reference for the 
City of San Mateo, a code enforcement officer I salary and benefits costs an estimated $116,000 annually.
3)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Five jurisdictions in California adopted ordinances to ban both gas and electric leaf blowers altogether. An outright ban on 
all mechanized blowers is probably easiest to enforce since it is clear when a user is in violation, as opposed to 
254 of 575

--- page 255 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
distinguishing when a blower is in compliance with a decibel noise limit regulation or if it is gas or electric-powered. 
However, it would still be necessary to witness the leaf blower being used in order to issue a citation. A complete ban on 
gas and electric leaf blowers addresses all concerns related to noise, emissions and air quality, however, an outright ban 
would have significant impacts to commercial landscapers and City operations. By banning all leaf blower use, residents 
and commercial landscapers would need to rely on manual methods (i.e., raking, sweeping). This would greatly increase 
the time it takes for commercial landscapers to complete jobs. 
There are a limited number of cities in Southern California that have a gas and electric leaf blower ban including Santa 
Monica, Del Mar, Hermosa Beach, Laguna Beach and Manhattan Beach. As mentioned in an earlier section of this report, 
in 2013 City Council debated this policy option in depth and decided not to move forward with a ban because of the 
impact to commercial landscapers and also to City staff ability to maintain our parks and landscaping. 
SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION FEEDBACK
On November 9, 2022, staff presented leaf blower regulations to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
requesting feedback and direction on the policy options presented above. During the discussion, there were a variety of 
concerns raised about gas leaf blower regulations. Commissioners voiced concern that a ban on gas leaf blowers might not 
fully address noise concerns since electric leaf blowers still generate some noise and concern about the use of gas 
generators to charge batteries. One commissioner was opposed to the adoption of a leaf blower ban because of the 
financial implications and economic impacts to small landscaping businesses. 
Most commissioners were in favor of a gas leaf blower ban with a delayed implementation date, possibly aligning with 
CARB’s phase-out date in 2024. Some commissioners were also interested pairing the gas leaf blower ban with limiting leaf 
blower use on specific days in certain zones (like Burlingame’s approach). Commissioners expressed support of gas leaf 
blower ban and regulations because of noise impacts to the community and health impacts to leaf blower operators.
All commissioners recommended staff engage directly with landscapers to understand the impact of potential regulations 
prior to bringing policy option to City Council for consideration.
LANDSCAPER FEEDBACK
To solicit feedback from commercial landscapers, staff sent a mailer to 180 landscaping businesses that have a registered 
business license with the City. The mailer included a letter with an overview of the potential leaf blower regulations, a 
survey on leaf blower use, information about the City’s Electric Leaf Blower Rebate program and a stamped envelope to 
facilitate return of the surveys. All materials were provided in English and Spanish. Recipients could provide feedback in 
three ways, participate online via Survey Monkey, mail the paper survey with the stamped envelope, or call or email staff 
directly. In addition, staff attempted to contact 10 businesses for phone interviews. This included the businesses that 
participated in the City’s electric leaf blower rebate and other contacts made through the Parks Department.
The City received 8 online survey responses in English, 9 paper survey responses in English, and 1 paper survey response in 
Spanish. Paper surveys were manually inputted into Survey Monkey for analysis. Overall, the survey showed the majority 
of respondents oppose a gas leaf blower ban with a diverse amount of feedback. Most survey respondents (70%) use gas 
leaf blowers and only 27% report using exclusive electric products; 47% of respondents use both gas and electric products. 
Of the 11 people who responded to why use electric products, the most popular benefit was related to noise and due to 
local regulations in other cities. Survey respondents identified battery life, equipment strength, and cost as the leading 
disadvantages with electric leaf blower equipment. 
The open-ended question showed that most survey respondents were opposed to a gas leaf blower ban. Respondents 
expressed concern about the increased amount of time jobs would take without gas leaf blowers. Respondents were 
concerned about being able to increase costs to clients to cover the increased time. Multiple respondents cited the 
faultiness with equipment and need for expensive repairs as a barrier to electric equipment. Finally, there is also a concern 
about the enforcement of the current ordinance and that a new regulation would be ignored by businesses without 
thorough enforcement.
Survey respondents were split regarding the time of use restrictions similar to Burlingame’s leaf blower regulations. 56% 
255 of 575

--- page 256 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
were opposed, arguing that this limitation would constrain their schedules and that clients already have preferences for 
their gardening services. One landscaper said they had too many client schedules, which resulted in negative and upset 
clients so they let go all of their Burlingame clients.
Phone interviews with electric leaf blower rebate participants revealed that rebate participants were more supportive of 
electric leaf blower use and already relied on electric leaf blowers. One landscaping company cited horticultural best 
practices as a driving reason to reduce blower use overall.
CITY COUNCIL FEEDBACK NEEDED
This report presents a high-level overview of the different policy options that can be considered to address community 
concerns over leaf blowers. Feedback is needed if City Council is interested in pursuing any of the three policy options 
presented in this report:
1)
Time of day restrictions
2)
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
3)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Potential leaf blower regulations would impact personal household leaf blower use, commercial landscaping businesses, 
and City operations. It is important to consider that each of the policy options have varying impact in terms of addressing 
leaf blower related noise pollution, air quality and greenhouse gas emission reduction. If the City Council is interested in 
pursuing any of the proposed policy options, staff would then initiate a robust community outreach process to both 
residents and commercial landscapers to get additional feedback prior to bringing any potential ordinance to City Council 
for consideration. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Receiving this informational report does not result in any fiscal impact. Adoption of leaf blower regulations would have a 
fiscal impact on City operations that would be evaluated at the time of consideration.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
Att 2 – Summary of Survey Responses
Att 3 – Individual Survey Responses
Att 4 – Municipal Code Section 10.80 
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
256 of 575

--- page 257 ---
From:
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Date:
Re: Leaf Blower Survey Reminder
Tuesday, February 21, 2023 11:03:40 PM
Attachments:
image013.png
image014.png
image015.png
image016.png
image017.png
image018.png
ANDREA. sorry for reply late.
i received your letter regarding your request for feedback on the new policy concerning
electric leaf blowers. i think this is NOT a good idea for gardeners or their customers for the
following reasons:
. Electric blowers are three times the cost of a gas blower which will add expense back
to the
customers.
. Batteries for leaf blowers only last approximately 30 minutes Wich would require a
Gardner
expense.
to carry additional batteries and chargers again adding additional
. Gardners who have tried electric blowers say there is a very short life span for this
equipment
and poor quality.
. Electric blowers do not have the same power as a gas blower, therefore. requiring
more
manual labor and more customer expense in order to do the job correctly.
. Designated days for gas blowers only make the problem worse and require more
scheduling
which could amount to less business for the gardeners and additional expense for
customers
Hopefully, this will help your survey and the people it serves.
Sincerely,
Jose l hernandez.
De: Andrea Chow <achow@cityofsanmateo.org>
Enviado: viernes, 3 de febrero de 2023 01:22 p. m.
Asunto: Leaf Blower Survey Reminder
257 of 575

--- page 258 ---
Hello,
The City of San Mateo is considering new rules that could affect your business and would like
to learn more about the use of gas and electric leaf blowers by landscaping businesses. Your
feedback will be shared with the San Mateo City Council as they consider leaf blower policy
options at an upcoming City Council Meeting (tentatively scheduled for Monday, March 20 at
5:30 pm). A start date for potential regulations has not been determined and businesses will
be given time to transition and prepare for new rules. Your feedback is very important and
urgently wanted about leaf blower use. Please share your feedback by February 17, 2023.
Regulations being considered include:
Only allowing leaf blower use during certain days/times of the week
Prohibiting gas leaf blowers and only allowing electric leaf blowers
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
The online survey is available at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/leafblowersm. Feel free
to call or email me with your feedback.
Sincerely,
Andrea
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst | City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please
notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
258 of 575

--- page 259 ---
1of 8

January 28, 2022

Andrea Chow

City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Silver Fox a

Hi Andrea,

Thank you for the opportunity to give feedback on commercial leaf blower use.

This is the issue we’re debating: Should we allow heavily polluting, very dangerous, fossil fuel
burning tools for tidying up our lawns?

With climate change’s rapidly worsening storms, heat waves, and drought, the answer should
be obvious. Yet, here we are with more hand-wringing over imaginary “economic” effects.
We’re fiddling while the planet burns.

| founded Silver Fox Landscaping to offer an electric-only landscaping service, which
minimizes leaf blower use. The community needs it.

I’m sure commercial landscapers will overwhelmingly tell you they must use gas yard tools. In
fact, the business case isn’t there. | wrote a legislation proposal to Senator Josh Becker
(enclosed). | haven’t seen the business case explained alongside gas tools’ health and safety
hazards, so the legislation proposal does that.

I've also included a Daily Journal article | very quickly annotated. My handwriting isn’t going to
win any penmanship awards, so | hope it’s clear enough.

Thank you for your time,

Dustin Chase
Silver Fox Landscaping

259 of 575


--- page 260 ---
2o0f 8

California State Legislation
Proposal

Problem

Gas yard tools pollute the air, damage the land, destroy wildlife habitat and endanger their
users.

Legislation

The legislation would be called “The Smart Landscaping Act.”

The City of San Francisco recently passed the “Healthier, Cleaner, Quieter Communities Act”

( Ordinance No. 202-22, File No. 220199), which bans gas yard tools. It is excellent legislation.
This proposal adds 2 provisions: citizen affidavits to to make the ban’s enforcement easier and
recommendations for public education.

The California state government could use the San Francisco example. Generally, the
legislation would do the following:

Prohibit gas yard tool use in California.
1. 2 year phase-in period for public government operators

2. 4 year phase-in for private operators

Small Business Support Program

260 of 575


--- page 261 ---
3 of 8

1. Gas yard tool exchange program

2. Gas yard tool disposal program

3. Electric yard tool transition support
1. Education program for both business and citizen audiences
2. Electric and hand tool demonstrations

3. Electric and hand transition tool training

Problem Details

Our communities have been forced to accept gas yard tools’ ear splitting noise, carcinogenic
fumes and environmental destruction for decades. Everyone, especially landscapers, would
benefit from a gas yard tool ban.

Paradoxically, the ones most harmed by gas yard tools have fought the hardest to keep them.
Generally, landscapers don’t know gas yard tools’ health risks. More importantly, they believe
their livelihood depends on them. So, this proposal will address the business case for electric
yard tools.

Many cities have banned gas yard tools, specifically leaf blowers. However, the bans are not
enforced.' This proposal will address enforcement barriers.

Current Law is Inadequate

Recent California legislation, AB 1346 Air pollution: small off-road engines, only mildly impacts
gas yard tools. It only bans the sale of gas yard tools in California. Any gas yard tools in use
today and purchased in at /east the next two years will remain legal to use. The landscaping
industry is lobbying to push the effective date back.2

Further, the law is easily circumvented and many in the industry do not intend to comply.
The Business Case

Using gas yard tools is simply bad business. Gas yard tools are destructive, hazardous
and expensive.

Oddly, the NALP also contradicts itself. While vehemently protesting an electric tool shift, its
own magazine features a large Bay Area company that has successfully made the change.4
' Opinion: An Earth Day goal: Let's end the use of gas-powered leaf blowers - berkeleyside.org

2 National Association of Landscape Professionals - Battery-Power Transition/CARB Regulation
Messaging

3 California’s landscapers bear brunt of ban on gas-powered mowers - The Guardian

“The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

261 of 575


--- page 262 ---
4 of 8

Destruction

Consistently, landscapers have blocked gas yard tool bans because they believe their
businesses depend on them. However, gardening businesses do not depend on the tools. They
depend on the /and. Without gas yard tools, the business can adapt and carry on. But if the
land is destroyed, so is the business.

Yet, landscaping practice tends to be destructive. Leaf blowers are the worst offenders. They
strip top soil and destroy vital insect and other wildlife habitat: wildlife necessary to support
their customers’ lawns.®

Leaf blowers also send debris and particulate matter, like old animal feces, into the air.

The landscaping industry claims electric tools are too expensive. However, it costs more to use
gas yard tools than it does to use electric yard tools. Gas yard tools operating costs are high:
they need careful tuning, specialized oil, and, of course, gasoline. Electric yard tools require
little more than battery charging.

The latest electric tools are as powerful as their equivalent gas tools. They also do not require
any special charging infrastructure. They charge on standard household electric (120 Volt) in as
little as 30 minutes.®

Let’s look at electric tools’ upfront costs. Gas and electric tools cost about the same. For an
example, a gas leaf blower costs about the same as its electric equivalent (with large capacity
battery and charger).’ Andrew Bray, vice president of government relations for the National
Association of Landscape Professionals (NALP) claims a commercial electric commercial
mower costs double its gas equivalent. However, an electric commercial mower can cost /ess
than its gas cousin.°

Batteries, however, cost anywhere from $100 to $400, depending on their capacity.
Landscapers claim they would need dozens of batteries to get through a single work day.
However, that is based on a false assumptions about battery life and how yard tools are
actually used.

The leaf blower is the most energy-hungry, and the first to doubt cast on electric yard tools. On
a typical job, a landscaper runs the blower in short bursts, ranging from low to high power. The
5Soils Alive: How Leaf Blowers Destroy Your Top Soil

6 EGO Power+ Charger Operator’s Manual page 12

7 Echo ECHO PB-580T at Home Depot & Ego Power+ LB6003 at Leaf Blowers Direct

8 California moves toward ban on gas lawn mowers and leaf blowers - LA Times October 9,
2021 .

9 EGO Power+ Z6 ZT5207L 52 in. Electric 56 V Battery Zero Turn Riding Mower Kit (Battery &
Charger) at Ace Hardware retrieved December 9, 2022, Z740R
ZTrak™ Zero Turn Mower at John Deere retrieved December 9, 2022

262 of 575


--- page 263 ---
5 of 8

gas tool idles much of the time, and is turned off and on as needed. An electric blower lasts
about 3 hours on low power, which is sufficient to blow around dry leaves. Short bursts of high
power can be used as needed. Sure, the blower’s battery will drain in about 30 minutes on high
speed, so the landscaper must be thoughtful and use only the energy the job requires. It’s
impossible to say how many batteries a particular business would need, but it’s hard to believe
the industry’s wild claims about them.

Leaf blowers sometimes cause more problems than they solve. After all, they are called leaf
blowers, not leaf cleaners. Gardeners are often fighting their own tools but don’t realize it. |
have observed landscapers at work in my city for over a year, and | saw many examples:

- They blow leaves and dirt too far, so blow them back. Back and forth they go, eventually
moving the leaves into a pile.

» They go over Area 1 several times, blowing leaves around and gradually piling them up.
While cleaning Area 2, they blow leaves back into Area 1. They clean Area 1 again.

» They blow leaves around an entire large area, when they could have simply swept up the
piles the wind had blown together.

Worst, one crew will blow leaves into a neighbor’s yard, then a different crew blows them back
the next day. The awful noise, clouds of dust and noxious air pollution is all for nothing.

| make this argument from personal experience. | bought a suite of electric yard tools at my
own expense and tested them around my building. My electric blower took longer than simply
using a push broom and rake.

Obviously, there are use cases for leaf blowers. But today, they are the hammer that makes
everything look like a nail.

To be fair, electric tools’ upfront costs can be hefty. However, any business is expected to look
after its costs, and invests wisely to reduce them. In addition, this legislation would subsidize
those business investments. It is challenging to adapt to electric tools, but the investment pays
off handsomely.1°

Business Case Summary

The fact is, our communities must adapt to the global warming crisis. Gas yard tools are no
longer acceptable, and the industry must change.

There’s nothing onerous about a gas yard tool ban. Any business should be interested in both
the greater safety and the greater profits electric tools provide. The incentive to switch to
electric tools is built-in!

As they adapt to electric yard tools, gardeners can alter their practices to better support both
the land, their livelihoods, and their health. Many businesses have already made the wise

10 Jandscapemanagement.net Battery boon: breaking down the benefits of battery-powered
equipment

263 of 575


--- page 264 ---
6 of 8

choice.11 12 In fact, the NALP contradicts itself on this point. While vehemently protesting an
electric tool shift, its own magazine features a large Bay Area company that has successfully
made the change. '*

Cities

Some city governments may object to a gas yard tool ban because their own efforts have
failed. My city, San Mateo, had an electric tool rebate program in 2021 - 2022. Only a handful
of landscapers took advantage of the program. The San Mateo Mayor claims this as proof
landscapers aren’t interested in electric tools. However, there was no serious follow-through
after the program began. The city mailed a program application to the 130 businesses
registered in San Mateo when the program began, and another toward the end of the program.

That’s not nearly enough effort to raise awareness. In addition, there was no Spanish language
promotional materials. Later, this proposal describes a better marketing program.

City governments have an excellent example to follow: Southampton, New York. They phased
out gas yard tools years ago, and they love the results.14 California cities can learn from their
leadership.

Community Health

Gas yard tools are heavy contributors to global warming and their emissions contain
carcinogens.15 16 Engine emissions also damage children’s lungs.'” There are more community
health threats. Leaf blowers are the most noxious example.

For decades, landscapers have claimed that leaf blowers save time. That’s only true if we
consider everyone else’s time to be worthless.

Leaf blowers’ are very loud, and their low-frequency noise easily passes through windows. For
example, gas leaf blower noise travels up to 800 feet. The noise impairs cognitive performance
in children and adults and “[t]he loudness of [gas powered leaf blowers’] sound at point of
operation is especially concerning for the auditory and non- auditory health of workers and
others regularly exposed in close proximity.”'® Even workers who use ear protection have
suffered permanent hearing loss. One gardener lost 65% of his high frequency hearing.'9

11 Washington DC Public Testimony, Sainburg

12The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

13The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

14 https://youtu.be/HS3JSXPXPx|

15 CARB Fact Sheet - Small Off Road Engine Fact Sheet

16 How bad for the environment are gas-powered leaf blowers? - Washington Post September
16, 2013

17 The Washington Post and the Leaf Blower Show Down - The Atlantic January 18, 2016

18 Journal of Environmental and Toxicology Studies: Characteristics of Lawn and Garden
Equipment Sound: A Community Pilot Study

19 Washington DC Public Testimony, Fallows

264 of 575


--- page 265 ---
7 of 8

In addition, the noise impairs child development.2°

Opponents of electric yard tools point out the “longer tailpipe.” True, electric tools don’t
eliminate emissions altogether: their electricity is often produced with fossil fuels. However,
burning fossil fuels in a power plant is much more efficient than burning them in an engine.

Battery material mining has environmental costs, and end of life battery disposable does, too.
Still, switching away from gas power is a net gain in the global warming fight.21

In any case, the drawbacks of electric yard tools make a better argument for hand tools than
they do for sticking with gas tools.

Global Warming Equity

Gas yard tool operators are largely Latinx, so that group is hurt the most. They are exposed to
the gas yard tools deafening noise and carcinogenic exhaust throughout their work days.
California state government has pledged to address inequities in global warming affects, so
this legislation aligns with the state government’s goals.22

In addition, frustrated people resent the invasive blower noise and come to resent landscapers
themselves. This fractures our communities.23

Barriers

Enforcement

Many cities have managed to pass gas powered yard tools, but the ordinances are not
enforced. City departments do not have enforcement resources, and it’s difficult to respond to
a complaint quickly enough. By the time the enforcement officer gets there, the landscaper
using the gas tools is long gone. Finally, the penalties are seen as an unfair burden on small
businesses.

Citizen affidavits eases enforcement. Citizens may document the illegal activity themselves,
including date, time and location. These are to be turned over to the responsible department,
which first warns the property owner. The property owner would then be fined for additional
violations.

Of course, the business could also be penalized. The key concept, however, is the property
owner typically has the deepest pockets, so few could complain about unfairness.

20 frontiers in Psychology: Does noise affect learning? A short review on noise effects on
cognitive performance in children

21 How much CO2 is emitted by manufacturing batteries? - As MIT Climate July 15, 2022

22 City and County of San Francisco Press Release: Supervisor Myrna Melgar Introduces the
Healthier, Cleaner, Quieter, Communities Act

23 Things | Never Told You About Being a Latino Gardener - Medium Jul 14, 2018

265 of 575


--- page 266 ---
https://www.Smdailyjournal.com/news/local/san-mateo-examining-ban-on-gas-leaf-blowers/article_29fd0462-64a1 -11ed-b4ce-03605 18f81c0.html

From the Daily Journal archives

San Mateo examining ban on gas leaf blowers
New rules being discussed to help address environmental concerns

Curtis Driscoll Daily Journal staff
Nov 15, 2022

Momentum is building for a gas ban on leaf blowers in San Mateo and a phased switch to
an electric option, with the city exploring possibilities at a recent Sustainability and
Infrastructure meeting.

The city is discussing a ban to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air and noise impact
for residents, along with more restrictions on when to allow usage.

“These darn things truly pollute,” Sustainability and Infrastructure Chair Cliff Robbins
said. “I’m not sure why we have somehow treated them differently than all the natural
gas appliances that we regulate the heck out of for new development because these are

266 of 575


--- page 267 ---
worse.”

concerns about how the added costs and hassle would affect the landscaper industry. —
However, it took the issue back up at its Nov. 9 meeting, with a commission majority

recommending a phased gas ban in the coming years and further restrictions on use my PH
based on city zoning to the council. Ly a id -

In 2020, the commission decided against making any regulation recommendation over | ( ww Fe Ag bi { @.
ar OCG

Leaf blower use is only allowed from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and from 9 a.m. to 5 | 4 \ : = iA
p.m. on Saturdays. Several commissioners suggested following Burlingame’s example of we — :
having a zoned approach. Under the model, certain neighborhoods would use \ im Fad < if

commercial blowers on specific days, with a map created to show the different zones and \ pyr | AC
schedules. Yak

The state is also playing a role after it banned new gas leaf blowers and lawnmowers ' h 2 / 1 e Ve
through Assembly Bill 1346 in 2021, which prohibited the sale of new small off-road “od Ue
engines in 2024. ‘.  k LON |

The city also receives noise nn about leaf blowers, with about 15 leaf blower
omplaints per year. according to city staff, However, it does not typically issue citations
because most peop sh comply with due iges, according to staff. Several public speakers

asked for more restrictions to reduce gas fumes in dense neighborhoods and noise.

While the city is transi i

battery limitations in leaf blowers means it only wae as cotouites of use but needs two ie
hours to charge, making use difficult at large parks. Electric equipment is also.less \
powerful and requires m more time for the same amount of work. Costs also remain ‘W>

iT onan of $18,000 to replace she city gas blower enim and $14,000 every two
ars for paaeey PepICRTIERCE A gas- “powered option typically costs is $375 Plus fuel. The-

i with some takers. It issued eight commercial landscaper rebates and 30
residential rebates since it stated, a city staff report ’said. The average rebate amount for ‘ a 7
® —_ . . . =" , é af f (t
the commercial was $311, while the residential was $7 oN 5 { wit ¢
M7) { tC} 17% /

i

{ ; | Ja, )l
Robbins suggested a gas ban with some transition time and a rebate program to help ‘ hare é w"
mitigate hardship for landscapers and a zoned concept. Robbins said the issue was about b Noy ak ) -
adjusting, similar to homeowners remodel] adjustment to the electric appliance ~ “3 ) ( oS ty >
C

,  ¢

restrictions through the city’s new reach codes. y~"

I think homeowners and landscapers are just going to have to suck it up and adjust,” D t) UM | nde
Robbins said. “I don’t think it’s that difficult.” 4... , 5 j-< YN he
GP €a€ ‘ \ IK
While the commission called for a ban, it did believe the city must do more outreach to |
landscapers and the public. Commission Kimiko Narita favored a gas ban and more 4 ry } ’
research about the public health effect of gas leaf blowers. She called for comprehensive ; bs L Uv | | +t .
outreach to contractors and the Latino community disproportionately affected by the i(u™l ic I, Ay’
changes. She noted a gas ban would affect businesses every year and could potentially 2. whe i ct C4
reduce income, as opposed to a one-time appliance change through reach codes. (i Kr J ie un
i , Ss
“We need to be respectful and really thorough in that stakeholder engagement, or else Jj 4h )
we fail,” Narita said. ee jie , i ve ey

Z ones
he

267 of 575


--- page 268 ---
Over 20 cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans, including Portola Valley in
2019 and Oakland in 2020.

“Having those as really helpful case studies will provide a lot more assurance to a new

council that this issue has been thoroughly researched for the third time,” Narita said.

Vice Chair Susan Rowinski said she was not comfortable with a gas ban currently. She

cited the economic hardships and tight margins many landscapers face in trying to run a

business but favored zoning changes to fight noise issues.

“We've heard from a lot of people tonight, but we didn’t hear from landscapers, a
that’s key,” Rowinski said.

The City Council will have a study session on the issue in February or March 2023.

curtis@smdailyjournal.com

(650) 344-5200 ext. 102

f vy =@ 8B OQ in

Curtis Driscoll Daily Journal staff
Reporter

Curtis Driscoll covers transportation and the cities of San Mateo, Foster City, Belmont and Half Moon Bay. See my other
articles: https://bit.ly/3lruw6p

268 of 575


--- page 269 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
70.59%
12
17.65%
3
41.18%
7
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that apply)
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
Total Respondents: 17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Gas
Electric-corded
Electric
battery-powered
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
Gas
Electric-corded
Electric battery-powered
1
269 of 575

--- page 270 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
45.45%
5
72.73%
8
45.45%
5
36.36%
4
54.55%
6
9.09%
1
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
Answered: 11
Skipped: 7
Total Respondents: 11
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	Environmental
concerns
	Noise,
electric...
	Health
impacts
	Client
preference
	Other areas
I work have...
Other (please
specify)
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	Environmental concerns
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas equipment
	Health impacts
	Client preference
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Other (please specify)
2
270 of 575

--- page 271 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
70.59%
12
58.82%
10
58.82%
10
23.53%
4
23.53%
4
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers? (Check all
that apply)
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
Total Respondents: 17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	Battery
charge does ...
	Electric
leaf blowers...
	Cost of
purchasing n...
	There are no
disadvantage...
Other (please
specify)
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	Battery charge does not last long enough
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf blowers
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Other (please specify)
3
271 of 575

--- page 272 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
37.50%
6
25.00%
4
18.75%
3
6.25%
1
12.50%
2
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities affected your
business?
Answered: 16
Skipped: 2
TOTAL
16
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	I do not
work in any...
	I purchased
electric lea...
	I already
use electric...
	I have not
changed my...
	I no longer
serve areas...
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas leaf blower ban
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas leaf blower ban requirements
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to change my business practices
	I have not changed my business practices to accommodate changes in regulations
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are banned
4
272 of 575

--- page 273 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
41.18%
7
58.82%
10
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf blower use to
only 1 day per week in specific neighborhood zones) would have an impact
on your business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf blower
regulations.
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
TOTAL
17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
No
Yes, please
explain
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
No
Yes, please explain
5
273 of 575

--- page 274 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential
regulations:
Answered: 14
Skipped: 4
#
RESPONSES
DATE
1
*Porque no trabanjan con el fabricante y no con el pobre trabajador? *Tengan en cuenta que
fall y winter es desagradable usar electric super batt tools.
*Please don't do like Burlingame, is
a headedge to re schedule our long time routes.
English Translation:
* Why don't they work
with the manufacturer and not with the poor worker?
*Keep in mind that fall and winter is
unpleasant to use electric super batt tools.
2/27/2023 9:52 AM
2
Battery powered saws and blowers are not available enough to replace gas powered equipment
2/24/2023 8:33 AM
3
While watching the 11/09/22 Sustainability + Infrastructure Commission meeting I learned
about the California CORE program. I just started the process in January. I was told it has
been taking 3 months to have it finalized.
The current enforcement of the leaf blower ordinance
is a joke. If you want any new regulation to work you will have to have a new team that just
handles the leave blower ordinance and actually do enforcement. In the past I would report leaf
blower ordinance violations but I stopped after seeing the same crews continuing with the
same violations.
2/22/2023 1:04 PM
4
I am all for battery operated blower w/ good batteries!!
2/22/2023 1:01 PM
5
I'm a landscape architect so I design landscapes. I don't install or maintain them.
2/22/2023 12:58 PM
6
I use my gas leaf blowers to not only clean residential yards, but the streets and clear the
drains near my clients' homes, as I know the majority of other gardeners do. We keep the
streets clean and if I have to use a battery/electric leaf blower, it would take too much time of
my battery and time to continue to do the same amount of work.
2/22/2023 12:57 PM
7
It does not surprise me how dumb California is turning, yet how people will allow all of our tax
money to go towards a city - that will soon look and feel disgusting, wanting to push for an "all"
electric environment yet landscaping to only be done once a week? Ridiculous! Wake up CA.
Allowing this will only make San Mateo appear as Oakland.
2/22/2023 12:55 PM
8
This isn't the time for half measures. Ban all gas yard tools. The businesses can adapt.
2/22/2023 12:51 PM
9
I think the council is biased to banning as blowers. This is a wasted effort.
2/22/2023 12:49 PM
10
I think electric blowers are fine and should be allowed to be used any day of the week. In
general, I think leaf blowers should be used less frequently than they are - raking is a better
way to remove targeted debris and leave beneficial organic matter in garden beds. However,
blowers are important for thoroughly cleaning hardscaped surfaces like patios, driveways and
sidewalks. I am a professional horticulturist and have strong opinions about the overuse of
blowers and their detriment to garden health, but they have their place and should be allowed.
2/6/2023 12:31 PM
11
The cost of a new tools and the time extended to blow the costumer won’t pay as many people
do garden maintenance is ease to find some work for less, and the situation is crossing in the
country everything goes up food,gas and items necessities, it has doble or more than use to
cost before pandemic but if you rise up the cost of the service they say you only can rase up
5% of the cost of the service that percent don’t cover the cost of new equipment
2/3/2023 2:32 PM
12
I support electric because of reduced noise and 2 stroke gas engine pollution
1/29/2023 2:47 PM
13
Palo Alto’s policy for electric leaf blowers only have already shown stress on landscapers.
They are paying out of pocket to repair and buy new electrical equipment and struggle to keep
up with buying expensive batteries due to their lack of longevity. Most have stuck to only
raking making their hours longer and more physically draining.
1/26/2023 11:36 PM
14
Setting aside my landscape use of an electric blower, only periodically, I find myself barraged
in my neighborhood by loud, smelly leaf blowers at all hours of the day, early morning, into the
1/26/2023 6:52 PM
6
274 of 575

--- page 275 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
evening when my family wants to enjoy quiet time in the garden....I would love for them to be
used only at certain times, especially gas, but both if possible.
7
275 of 575

--- page 276 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
1 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Client preference
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
#1
#1
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:49:11 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:49:11 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:52:03 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:52:03 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:51
00:02:51
IP Address:
IP Address:

135.180.130.226
135.180.130.226
Page 1
276 of 575

--- page 277 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
2 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Setting aside my landscape use of an electric blower, only periodically, I find myself barraged in my neighborhood by loud, smelly leaf 
blowers at all hours of the day, early morning, into the evening when my family wants to enjoy quiet time in the garden....I would love 
for them to be used only at certain times, especially gas, but both if possible.
277 of 575

--- page 278 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
3 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Batteries when used for long periods of times drain and
damage cells within the batteries resulting in replacing $200
batteries regularly.
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
My schedule is based on efficiency and not by city. Most of
my clients hve set days they prefer me and this would
ultimately ruin my schedule and make unecessary trips
back in forth.
Yes, please explain:
#2
#2
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:25:47 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:25:47 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:36:09 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:36:09 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:10:22
00:10:22
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.226.87.105
76.226.87.105
Page 1
278 of 575

--- page 279 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
4 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Palo Alto’s policy for electric leaf blowers only have already shown stress on landscapers. They are paying out of pocket to repair and 
buy new electrical equipment and struggle to keep up with buying expensive batteries due to their lack of longevity. Most have stuck to
only raking making their hours longer and more physically draining.
279 of 575

--- page 280 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
5 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric-corded
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I support electric because of reduced noise and 2 stroke gas engine pollution
#3
#3
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:41:51 PM
Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:41:51 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:47:00 PM
Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:47:00 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:05:08
00:05:08
IP Address:
IP Address:

45.26.53.176
45.26.53.176
Page 1
280 of 575

--- page 281 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
6 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#4
#4
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:16:34 PM
Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:16:34 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:20:15 PM
Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:20:15 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:40
00:03:40
IP Address:
IP Address:

24.5.182.227
24.5.182.227
Page 1
281 of 575

--- page 282 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
7 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
This would limit how much I can work and my livelihood. I
have too many clients to be limited to one day a week.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#5
#5
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:20:19 PM
Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:20:19 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:27:35 PM
Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:27:35 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:07:15
00:07:15
IP Address:
IP Address:

107.131.72.247
107.131.72.247
Page 1
282 of 575

--- page 283 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
8 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I have not changed my business practices to
accommodate changes in regulations
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
The costumer some times don’t understand to change the
service day
Yes, please explain:
#6
#6
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Friday, February 03, 2023 2:10:52 PM
Friday, February 03, 2023 2:10:52 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Friday, February 03, 2023 2:32:16 PM
Friday, February 03, 2023 2:32:16 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:21:23
00:21:23
IP Address:
IP Address:

70.236.211.75
70.236.211.75
Page 1
283 of 575

--- page 284 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
9 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
The cost of a new tools and the time extended to blow the costumer won’t pay as many people do garden maintenance is ease to find 
some work for less, and the situation is crossing in the country everything goes up food,gas and items necessities, it has doble or 
more than use to cost before pandemic but if you rise up the cost of the service they say you only can rase up 5% of the cost of the 
service  that percent don’t cover the cost of new equipment
284 of 575

--- page 285 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
10 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
Other (please specify):
easier to use, cheaper than gas, just as effective
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
I work 5 days a week and am only at clients homes 1x per
week. I would have to do every client's blowing in one day
which leaves 4 days when I could not work. Also, for
construction, leaf blowers are used for daily cleanup.
Jobsites would get messy if they could only be used one
day.
Yes, please explain:
#7
#7
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Monday, February 06, 2023 12:25:24 PM
Monday, February 06, 2023 12:25:24 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Monday, February 06, 2023 12:30:43 PM
Monday, February 06, 2023 12:30:43 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:05:19
00:05:19
IP Address:
IP Address:

142.254.109.200
142.254.109.200
Page 1
285 of 575

--- page 286 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
11 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I think electric blowers are fine and should be allowed to be used any day of the week. In general, I think leaf blowers should be used 
less frequently than they are - raking is a better way to remove targeted debris and leave beneficial organic matter in garden beds. 
However, blowers are important for thoroughly cleaning hardscaped surfaces like patios, driveways and sidewalks. I am a professional 
horticulturist and have strong opinions about the overuse of blowers and their detriment to garden health, but they have their place and 
should be allowed.
286 of 575

--- page 287 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
12 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric-corded,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#8
#8
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:06 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:06 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:56 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:56 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:49
00:00:49
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
287 of 575

--- page 288 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
13 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric-corded
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are
banned
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I think the council is biased to banning as blowers. This is a wasted effort.
#9
#9
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:59 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:59 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:01 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:01 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:02
00:02:02
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
288 of 575

--- page 289 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
14 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
This isn't the time for half measures. Ban all gas yard tools. The businesses can adapt.
#10
#10
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:04 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:50:57 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:50:57 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:01:53
00:01:53
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
289 of 575

--- page 290 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
15 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
in the near future your electric product will cause more toxic
radiation than gas
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
This is ridiculous how do you expect a city to be well kept
and clean to be done only once a week with with an
"electric" product.
Yes, please explain:
#11
#11
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:51:00 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:51:00 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:42 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:42 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:42
00:03:42
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
290 of 575

--- page 291 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
16 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
It does not surprise me how dumb California is turning, yet how people will allow all of our tax money to go towards a city - that will 
soon look and feel disgusting, wanting to push for an "all" electric environment yet landscaping to only be done once a week? 
Ridiculous! Wake up CA. Allowing this will only make San Mateo appear as Oakland.
291 of 575

--- page 292 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
17 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Battery charge - I wouldn't be able to do all of my clients.
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are
banned
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
When I would work in Burlingame I'd have to move around
too many clients schedules which resulted in negative/upset
clients so I had to let go all of my Burlingame clients
Yes, please explain:
#12
#12
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:46 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:46 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:17 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:17 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:31
00:02:31
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
292 of 575

--- page 293 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
18 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I use my gas leaf blowers to not only clean residential yards, but the streets and clear the drains near my clients' homes, as I know 
the majority of other gardeners do. We keep the streets  clean and if I have to use a battery/electric leaf blower, it would take too much 
time of my battery and time to continue to do the same amount of work.
293 of 575

--- page 294 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
19 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
Respondent skipped this question
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Respondent skipped this question
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I'm a landscape architect so I design landscapes. I don't install or maintain them.
#13
#13
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:18 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:18 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:12 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:12 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:53
00:00:53
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
294 of 575

--- page 295 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
20 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Client preference
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Yes, as a landscape contractor I need blowers 5 times per
week.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#14
#14
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:14 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:14 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:04 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:01:49
00:01:49
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
295 of 575

--- page 296 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
21 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Client preference,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
#15
#15
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:08 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:08 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:04 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:55
00:00:55
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
296 of 575

--- page 297 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
22 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I am all for battery operated blower w/ good batteries!!
297 of 575

--- page 298 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
23 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
I'm the boss and worker so that would mean I would have to
let go some of my clients. I can only do so many yard per
day.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
While watching the 11/09/22 Sustainability + Infrastructure Commission meeting I learned about the California CORE program. I just 
started the process in January. I was told it has been taking 3 months to have it finalized.
The current enforcement of the leaf blower ordinance is a joke. If you want any new regulation to work you will have to have a new 
team that just handles the leave blower ordinance and actually do enforcement. In the past I would report leaf blower ordinance 
violations but I stopped after seeing the same crews continuing with the same violations.
#16
#16
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:11 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:11 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:03:50 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:03:50 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:38
00:02:38
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
298 of 575

--- page 299 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
24 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Short supply
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
Respondent skipped this question
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Clients like their properties clean when we leave. 9 am to
5pm are reasonable hours
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Battery powered saws and blowers are not available enough to replace gas powered equipment
#17
#17
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Friday, February 24, 2023 8:29:26 AM
Friday, February 24, 2023 8:29:26 AM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Friday, February 24, 2023 8:33:08 AM
Friday, February 24, 2023 8:33:08 AM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:42
00:03:42
IP Address:
IP Address:

12.218.214.34
12.218.214.34
Page 1
299 of 575

--- page 300 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
25 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Client preference,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Dias especiales es algo super ridiculo como en Burlingame,
es un dolor de cabeza.
Yes, please explain:
#18
#18
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Monday, February 27, 2023 9:32:36 AM
Monday, February 27, 2023 9:32:36 AM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Monday, February 27, 2023 9:51:57 AM
Monday, February 27, 2023 9:51:57 AM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:19:21
00:19:21
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
300 of 575

--- page 301 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
26 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
*Porque no trabanjan con el fabricante y no con el pobre trabajador? 
*Tengan en cuenta que fall y winter es desagradable usar electric super batt tools.
*Please don't do like Burlingame, is a headedge to re schedule our long time routes.
English Translation:
* Why don't they work with the manufacturer and not with the poor worker?
*Keep in mind that fall and winter is unpleasant to use electric super batt tools.
301 of 575

--- page 302 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
1/3
City of San Mateo Law Library / City of San Mateo Municipal Code. / Title 10 PEACE, SAFETY
AND MORALS / Chapter 10.80 OPERATION OF LEAF BLOWERS
Chapter 10.80 OPERATION OF LEAF BLOWERS
10.80.010 PURPOSE.
It has been found that leaf blowers cause considerable noise and air pollution and have been the
source of numerous complaints by San Mateo citizens living in residential zoning districts.
This chapter is intended to regulate the use of leaf blowers to minimize noise and air pollution in
the City's residentially zoned neighborhoods and in areas bordering residentially zoned
neighborhoods.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.020 LEAF BLOWER—DEFINITION.
Leaf blowers are defined as portable equipment that is powered by a self-contained fuel engine
and used in any landscape, maintenance, construction, property repair, or property maintenance
for the purpose of blowing, dispersing or redistributing dust, dirt, leaves, grass, clippings, cuttings
and trimmings from trees, shrubs or other debris.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.030 HOURS OF OPERATION.
No person shall use or operate a leaf blower in a residential zoning district or in areas bordering a
residential zoning district before 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, nor prior to
9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays. Use of leaf blowers on Sundays or on the following
302 of 575

--- page 303 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
2/3
holidays is prohibited: New Years Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday, Presidents' Day, Memorial
Day, 4th of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas.
(Ord. No. 1998-6 § 1; Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.040 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
Any person who uses or operates a leaf blower in a residential zoning district or in areas bordering
a residential zoning district shall use a blower nozzle extension and shall run the blower at a low
speed to minimize noise. No more than one blower shall be operated at a residence at any time.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.050 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS.
No material or matter blown by leaf blowers shall be blown upon neighboring properties or onto
any portion of the public right-of-way, including but not limited to sidewalks and streets, without
being immediately removed.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.060 VIOLATIONS.
It is unlawful for any person or entity to violate the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
303 of 575

--- page 304 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
3/3
10.80.070 CONSTRUCTION.
No section of this chapter shall impose a mandatory duty on the City, or on any officer, official,
agent, employee, board, council, or commission of the City. Instead, if any section purports to
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the
appropriate officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission with discretion to
enforce the section or not to enforce it.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
304 of 575

--- page 305 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
305 of 575

--- page 306 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Peter Breining 
Sent:
Saturday, March 18, 2023 3:09 PM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Leaf blower support comment
Please do not change the current leaf blower regulations.  The 
regulations are a good compromise as they currently exist. 
 
Leaf blowers are a valuable tool.  I use my gas-powered leaf blower 
to blow off dust and debris from public tennis courts before I play 
tennis, making them much less slippery and safer. 
 
It would not be possible for me to sweep the tennis courts off each 
time. 
 
Also, I recently noticed a park employee using a battery powered 
blower and it was much louder and much more shrill than my gas 
powered one.  So there is no noise benefit of electric vs. gasoline, 
as far as I can see. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of this safety-related use of leaf 
blowers and please do not change the current regulations. 
 
Peter Breining 
 
San Mateo 
306 of 575

--- page 307 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Kristie Eglsaer 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 4:18 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Cc:
Stephanie Gindlesperger; Sang Hee Cho; Bethany Lopez; Sue-Ellen Atkinson; Azalea Mitch; 
Amourence Lee; Lisa Diaz Nash; Rob Newsom; Adam Loraine; Richard Hedges; Andrea Chow
Subject:
Comments for Mon 3/20 CC meetings
Dear City Council,  
 
Here are my public comments for the meetings on Monday, March 20.  
 
Slow Speed School Zone (Item #16) 
Thank you so much for starting the slow streets around schools project!  
 
Ped/Bike Priority List Action (Item #19)  
I look forward to the City making changes to our streets this year, and I am wondering if that is what is meant 
by “Create a pedestrian master plan implementation plan” because a 2012 Ped Plan Implementation Plan 
already exists ✅ ‐ Ch 7 titled Implementation, with things like pedestrian scale lighting, curb extensions, and 
signal timing with specific locations and cost estimates. Many near term actions, like those also mentioned 
in the 2022 TOD Ped Access Plan, can't happen soon enough, like minimizing vehicle conflicts with 
pedestrians at signalized intersections via turn restrictions at El Camino Downtown (p.63). My neighbor was 
just telling me yesterday about a really scary near miss there due to the ped-vehicle signal conflict.  
 
Add Pilot Installations as part of Complete Streets Community Engagement Plan (Item #22) 
Pilot Installations are designed to be temporary, allowing for modifications based on real-world and real-time 
feedback from users, allowing the community and City to engage in a cycle of action and feedback. The city 
has had some real success with pilot installations and community engagement recently. Now it’s about folding 
that practice into the Complete Streets Community Engagement Process.  
 
Leaf Blowers and #LeaveTheLeaves (Special Session) 
Does the City of San Mateo Parks Dept have a policy similar to what is laid out by the NYC Parks Dept 
to leave fallen leaves on the ground, like keeping leaves around tree bases or mulch mowing lawns? Thank 
you for the City listing alternatives to leaf blowing on the leaf blower webpage, like letting the leaves lie, and 
thank you for the electric leaf blower rebate program (and great flyer with QR code!). 
 
Thanks very much!  
 
Best, Kristie  
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4566/TOD‐Pedestrian‐Access‐Plan 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2218/Pedestrian‐Master‐Plan 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/10061/10‐‐‐Implementation?bidId= 
 
https://www.nycgovparks.org/learn/trees‐and‐plants/leave‐the‐leaves‐why‐our‐parks‐gardeners‐may‐leave‐fallen‐
autumn‐leaves‐on‐the‐ground 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4544/Electric‐Leaf‐Blower‐Rebate 
307 of 575

--- page 308 ---
2
 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85710/Electric‐Leaf‐Blower‐Rebate‐Flyer?bidId= 
308 of 575

--- page 309 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 1:56 PM
To:
Martin McTaggart; Andrea Chow; Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Subject:
Fwd: Comments for 3/20 meeting
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Lisa Rayle 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 1:22:16 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments for 3/20 meeting  
  
Dear Councilmembers,   
 
As a resident of San Mateo, I am writing to comment on three items on tonight's agenda:  
 
1. City Council Priority List ‐ Draft Review, item #32 
 
On item #32, I urge council to be more specific.  
 
"Refine programmatic timeline for future bike improvements" --> we should create a timeline to build all 
priority projects in the Bike Master Plan 
 
" Create a pedestrian master plan implementation plan" --> Does it really take all year to make a plan to 
implement a plan? Can we also identify quick-build projects that can be implemented this year? 
2. Complete Streets Plan ‐ Introduction & Community Engagement 
 
I strongly support the design of streets that are truly complete, which means making streets safe and welcoming for 
people on foot and on bike. San Mateo roads are too often designed for cars with pedestrians and bicycles as an 
afterthought. It's past time to correct that imbalance by prioritizing design for people over design for cars.   
 
3. Leaf blowers 
 
Gas leaf blowers create air pollution hazardous to health, with few benefits. When I lived in Palo Alto, where gas leaf 
blowers are banned, the landscapers were fine using an electric blower and the cost was basically the same. Why 
continue to subject residents and workers to hazardous fumes when there are perfectly good alternatives available?  
 
Thank you, 
Lisa Rayle 
 
309 of 575

--- page 310 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 2:15 PM
To:
Andrea Chow; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Fwd: Leaf blower ordinance.
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Rick 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 2:12:13 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Leaf blower ordinance.  
  
Good afternoon,  
 
I never seen anyone using a leaf blower (gas or electric) collect the debris 
and take it away.  Have you?  The debris gets blown onto the street or 
the neighbors property.  This ends up in the storm drain system and clogs 
it up and eventually the pollutants flow into the SF Bay which is a 
violation of the Clean Water Act.   A broom and a rake are the Green zero 
emissions alternative.  If we are banning everything that is gas or gasoline 
powered allowing gasoline leaf blowers, that sends the wrong message to 
everyone.   
sincerely  
Rick Sakuda 
San Mateo, CA 
310 of 575

--- page 311 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Elaine Salinger 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 8:03 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Citizens Climate Lobby members' comments about Leaf Blowers
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Dias Nash, Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom and Hedges, 
 
The San Mateo County chapter of Citizens Climate Lobby has the following comments on Item 2 of the 
March 20  Special Meeting of the City Council related to Leaf Blower Regulations. We have 1000 members in 
SMC and 200 members living in the City of San Mateo.  
 
Recommendations for Regulations of Leaf Blowers 
 
 
1. Effective January 1, 2026  or sooner, ban use of all gasoline powered landscaping equipment in San Mateo 
(an expansion of policy option two in the staff report). 
 
 
2. Immediately enforce the widely ignored operating hours for leaf blowers; and enforce the limits on noise 
levels. 
 
 
3. Expand the electric leaf blower rebate program to include batteries.  
 
 
4. Use alternative landscaping methods that include leaving the leaves on the ground, letting the grass grow 
longer, and/or trimming shrubbery less often and educate the public. (Please see this link. for a good 
explanation of why this is beneficial.)  
 
5.  Have the Parks Dept trial mulch mowing and other ways to leave fallen leaves, like placing leaf piles around 
tree bases to protect tree roots. 
 
Discussion of Recommendations 
 
After January 1, 2024, new gasoline powered leaf blowers and other new gasoline powered equipment such as 
hedge trimmers can no longer be sold in California. The staff report for the March 20 City Council meeting very 
correctly outlines the reasoning: the environmental damage done by one hour of gasoline powered leaf 
blowers is equivalent to the emissions from driving a Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles.  
 
Besides creating annoying noise pollution and carbon pollution, gas leaf blowers blow away topsoil, blow away 
pollinator larvae that live in the leaf litter, and blow away annual flower seeds. Over time, the ground that has 
been blown is visibly eroded and barren. While electric blowers have the same problems, because they are not 
as powerful, the environmental damage is less severe.  
 
However, we do recognize that as long as landscapers are expected to remove every leaf, it will be 
economically challenging for them to cease operations of all leaf blowers.  Although leaves, grass clippings and 
311 of 575

--- page 312 ---
2
other material can be hand raked and swept, very few, if any, homeowners or businesses would be willing to 
pay the higher labor cost such hand work would require. Actually, leaf litter is nature's best mulch. And about 
3” of mulch is recommended to reduce water needs and keep plant roots cool. What is really needed is 
education of the public to accept landscaping that is more natural. 
 
We thank the City for their electric leaf blower rebate program, and the California Air Resources Board for 
their recent launch of a voucher incentive program for zero emission landscape equipment, referred to as the 
CORE program, available to landscape professionals. We understand that the leaf blower battery may not last 
the entire day and landscapers will need to carry extra batteries. One solution is to expand the landscape 
professionals' rebate for electric leaf blowers to include additional batteries.  
 
In addition to air pollution, gasoline powered leaf blowers create significant noise pollution and thus, by San 
Mateo Municipal Code, may legally be operated only between the hours of 8 AM and 5 PM in residential and 
adjacent areas. Please note that during hours of legal operation, the Municipal Code also sets some very clear 
noise level standards. Unfortunately, in San Mateo, the hours of operation and sound level limitations are 
widely ignored, especially in commercial and office areas adjacent to residential properties.  
 
An outright ban on gasoline powered landscaping equipment, effective January 1, 2026, gives landscape 
professionals almost  three years to find electric battery powered alternatives. With financial assistance from 
the CORE program and the City’s rebates, this is an equitable and fair approach.   
 
Finally, the problem of leaf blowers potentially could be addressed through alternative landscaping methods 
that involve less frequent use of leaf blowers, which would also yield other environmental benefits.  The Parks 
and Recreation Department could try leaving the leaves on the ground to create natural mulch and provide 
habitat for the creatures. However, this was not on the objectives list from the City Council, and therefore, 
further awareness and public education of this option is needed.  
  
Thank you. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elaine Salinger, Group Co-Leader 
San Mateo County Chapter  
 
 
 
 
312 of 575

--- page 313 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Nancy Schneider 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 8:34 PM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Revised letter on Leaf Blower regulations
Hello Patrice ‐‐ 
Would you please replace the letter I sent a few minutes ago with the one below.  I made a change on the signature. 
Thank you, 
Nancy  
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom and Hedges, 
 
The  San Mateo Climate Action Team has the following comments on Item 2 of the March 20  Special 
Meeting of the City Council  related to Leaf Blower Regulations.   
 
Recommendations for Regulations of Leaf Blowers 
 
1. Effective January 1, 2026  or sooner, ban use of all gasoline powered landscaping equipment in San 
Mateo (an expansion of policy option two in the staff report). 
 
2. Immediately enforce the widely ignored operating hours for leaf blowers; and enforce the limits on 
noise levels. 
 
3. Expand the electric leaf blower rebate program to include batteries.  
 
4. Use alternative landscaping methods that include leaving the leaves on the ground, letting the grass 
grow longer, and/or trimming shrubbery less often and educate the public. (Please see this link. for a 
good explanation of why this is beneficial.)  
 
5.   Have the Parks Dept trial mulch mowing and other ways to leave fallen leaves, like placing leaf piles around 
tree bases to protect tree roots. 
 
Discussion of Recommendations 
 
After January 1, 2024, new gasoline powered leaf blowers and other new gasoline powered equipment such as 
hedge trimmers can no longer be sold in California. The staff report for the March 20 City Council meeting very 
correctly outlines the reasoning: the environmental damage done by one hour of gasoline powered leaf 
blowers is equivalent to the emissions from driving a Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles.  
 
Besides creating annoying noise pollution and carbon pollution, gas leaf blowers blow away topsoil, blow away 
pollinator larvae that live in the leaf litter, and blow away annual flower seeds. Over time, the ground that has 
been blown is visibly eroded and barren. While electric blowers have the same problems, because they are not 
as powerful, the environmental damage is less severe.  
 
However, we do recognize that as long as landscapers are expected to remove every leaf, it will be 
economically challenging for them to cease operations of all leaf blowers.  Although leaves, grass clippings and 
313 of 575

--- page 314 ---
2
other material can be hand raked and swept, very few, if any, homeowners or businesses would be willing to 
pay the higher labor cost such hand work would require. Actually, leaf litter is nature's best mulch. And about 
3” of mulch is recommended to reduce water needs and keep plant roots cool. What is needed is education of 
the public to accept landscaping that is more natural. 
 
We thank the City for their electric leaf blower rebate program, and the California Air Resources Board for 
their recent launch of a voucher incentive program for zero emission landscape equipment, referred to as the 
CORE program, available to landscape professionals. We also note that the experience of some of our 
members with electric leaf blowers has been like that of the San Mateo Parks Department: battery life makes 
switching from gasoline to electric a challenge.  One solution is to expand the landscape professionals' rebate 
for electric leaf blowers to include additional batteries.  
 
In addition to air pollution, gasoline powered leaf blowers create significant noise pollution and thus, by San 
Mateo Municipal Code, may legally be operated only between the hours of 8 AM and 5 PM in residential and 
adjacent areas. Please note that during hours of legal operation, the Municipal Code also sets some very clear 
noise level standards. Unfortunately, in San Mateo, the hours of operation and sound level limitations are 
widely ignored, especially in commercial and office areas adjacent to residential properties.  
 
An outright ban on gasoline powered landscaping equipment, effective January 1, 2026, gives landscape 
professionals almost  three years to find electric battery powered alternatives. With financial assistance from 
the CORE program and the City’s rebates, this is an equitable and fair approach.   
 
Finally, the problem of leaf blowers potentially could be addressed through alternative landscaping methods 
that involve less frequent use of leaf blowers, which would also yield other environmental benefits.  The Parks 
and Recreation Department could try leaving the leaves on the ground to create natural mulch and provide 
habitat for useful creatures. However, this was not on the objectives list from the City Council, and therefore, 
further awareness of this option is needed.  
  
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Schneider and Elaine Salinger  on behalf of the 
180 Members of the San Mateo Climate Action Team 
 
314 of 575

--- page 315 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 1:20 PM
To:
Andrea Chow; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Fwd: Ban gas-powered leafblower use
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Carol Steinfeld 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 1:01:03 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Ban gas‐powered leafblower use  
  
Councillors: 
 
Please ban use of gas‐powered leafblowers—for at least residential use as an interim measure until a complete ban is 
enacted. 
 
A study shows that gas leafblowers do not increase cost to the yard workers. But if if it did, this cost must be charged to 
the customers.  
 
After all, yard maintenance is a discretionary cost, and I feel my neighbors should pay more for polluting the air, creating 
noise, and harming insects/plants/wildiife, as well as damaging everyone's health, including the yard workers'.  
 
You might look at the Palo Alto regulations as a model.  
 
Yard workers know the days of gas powered leafblowers are coming to an end. 
 
Thank you. 
Carol Steinfeld 
 
315 of 575

--- page 316 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Maggie Trinh 
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 9:22 AM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Agenda Item #2 - Gas Leaf Blowers
To the City Council: 
 
I am writing in my personal capacity to strongly urge a ban on gas leafblowers. We have in the past used landscaping 
services that used gas leafblowers and they created lots of noxious fumes that are unpleasant and dangerous to breathe 
in, similar to standing next to an idling pickup truck (but much worse). We purchased an electric leafblower for the 
landscaping service to use, which was better from an environmental standpoint. The landscaper simply plugged it into 
an outlet on the side of our house using a long extension cord, which will be sufficient for the vast majority of residential 
jobs and will not require carrying a battery at all. I believe the fears of costs being passed onto the consumer are much 
exaggerated; electricity is much cheaper than gas, which customers are already paying for. And it will be much 
healthier for the people actually operating the leafblowers who have to breathe in these fumes day after day. Banning 
gas leafblowers will be a step in the right direction ‐‐ we need to do everything we can to address the climate change 
crisis. 
 
On a side note: I recognize that everyone will have different needs and preferences for how they clean up their yards, 
particularly commercial applications, but I have actually stopped using these services altogether and my soil is much 
healthier and more productive and absorbs more rainwater, avoiding runoff/flooding. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
Regards, 
 
Maggie Trinh 
316 of 575

--- page 317 ---
From: 
Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent on: Friday, March 31, 2023 2:35:10 AM 
To: 
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>; Andrea 
Chow <achow@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Leaf Blower Regulations, Item 15 on April 3 Agenda 
  
  
 
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
 
    
From: Nancy Schneider  
Sent: Thursday, March 30, 2023 7:00:10 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Leaf Blower Regulations, Item 15 on April 3 Agenda 
  
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom and Hedges, 
 
The  San Mateo Climate Action Team has the following comments on Item 15 of the April 
3  City Council Regular Meeting  related to Leaf Blower Regulations.   
 
Recommendations for Regulations of Leaf Blowers 
1.  
Effective January 1, 2026  or sooner, ban use of all gasoline powered landscaping 
equipment in San Mateo (an expansion of policy option two 
in the staff report). 
 
2.  
Immediately enforce the widely ignored operating hours for leaf blowers; and enforce  
the limits on noise levels.  
 
3. Use alternative landscaping methods that include leaving the leaves on the ground, 
letting the grass grow longer, and/or trimming shrubbery less often and educate the 
public. (Please see this link. for a good explanation of why this is beneficial.)  
 
4.   Have the Parks Dept trial mulch mowing and other ways to leave fallen leaves, like placing leaf piles 
around tree bases to protect tree roots. 
Discussion of Recommendations 
 
317 of 575

--- page 318 ---
After January 1, 2024, new gasoline powered leaf blowers and other new gasoline powered 
equipment such as hedge trimmers can no longer be sold in California. The staff report for the 
April 3 City Council meeting very correctly outlines the reasoning: the environmental damage 
done by one hour of gasoline powered leaf blowers is equivalent to the emissions from driving 
a Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles.  
 
Besides creating annoying noise pollution and carbon pollution, gas leaf blowers blow away 
topsoil, blow away pollinator larvae that live in the leaf litter, and blow away annual flower 
seeds. Over time, the ground that has been blown is visibly eroded and barren. While electric 
blowers have the same problems, they are not as powerful, so the environmental damage is 
less severe.  
 
However, we do recognize that as long as landscapers are expected to remove every leaf, it will 
be economically challenging for them to cease operations of all leaf blowers.  Although leaves, 
grass clippings and other material can be hand raked and swept, very few, if any, homeowners 
or businesses would be willing to pay the higher labor cost such hand work would require. 
Actually, leaf litter is nature's best mulch. And about 3” of mulch is recommended to reduce 
water needs and keep plant roots cool. What is needed is education of the public to accept 
landscaping that is more natural. 
 
We thank the City for their electric leaf blower rebate program, and the California Air Resources 
Board for their recent launch of a voucher incentive program for zero emission landscape 
equipment, referred to as the CORE program, available to landscape professionals. We also 
note that the experience of some of our members with electric leaf blowers has been like that 
of the San Mateo Parks Department: battery life makes switching from gasoline to electric a 
challenge.  We’re glad that the City has  expanded the landscape professionals' rebate for 
electric leaf blowers to include additional batteries.  
 
In addition to air pollution, gasoline powered leaf blowers create significant noise pollution and 
thus, by San Mateo Municipal Code, may legally be operated only between the hours of 8 AM 
and 5 PM in residential and adjacent areas. Please note that during hours of legal operation, 
the Municipal Code also sets some very clear noise level standards. Unfortunately, in San 
Mateo, the hours of operation and sound level limitations are widely ignored, especially in 
commercial and office areas adjacent to residential properties.  
 
An outright ban on gasoline powered landscaping equipment, effective January 1, 2026, gives 
landscape professionals almost  three years to find electric battery powered alternatives. With 
financial assistance from the CORE program and the City’s rebates, this is an equitable and fair 
approach.   
 
Finally, the problem of leaf blowers potentially could be addressed through alternative 
landscaping methods that involve less frequent use of leaf blowers, which would also yield 
other environmental benefits.  The Parks and Recreation Department could try leaving the 
318 of 575

--- page 319 ---
leaves on the ground to create natural mulch and provide habitat for useful creatures. 
However, this was not on the objectives list from the City Council, and therefore, further 
awareness of this option is needed.  
  
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Schneider and Elaine Salinger  on behalf of the 
180 Members of the San Mateo Climate Action Team 
 
 
 
-- 
 
 
 
319 of 575

--- page 320 ---
From: 
Carol Wilhelmy  
Sent on: Monday, April 3, 2023 5:08:44 AM 
To: 
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: public comments for April 3 agenda item #15 
  
  
 
[ Here are my public comments for agenda item #15, 
  Leaf Blower Regulations, in case something prevents 
  me from attending in person. ] 
 
benzene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and 1,3-butadiene 
These are just some of the carcinogenic substances that I 
(and the leaf blower equipment operator) get exposed to. 
 
The number one reason to ban the use of gas leaf blowers is 
to protect the health of San Mateo residents, not to mention 
the health of the leaf blower operators themselves. 
 
Exposing neighbors to toxic, cancer-causing emissions is just wrong, 
but this inconsiderate behavior will continue as long as there is 
no ordinance in effect. 
 
My neighbors' landscape maintenance person blows dust and debris 
onto my property every single time he comes.  I can see it coming 
over the back fence as I stand at my kitchen window, and I can see 
it coming onto my front walkway from my office.  I have to keep my 
windows closed. 
 
At least I can protect myself from the noise with noise-canceling 
headphones, but why should I have to do that inside my own home? 
 
The dumb thing is that my neighbors' property doesn't look any 
better after the blowing is completed. 
 
Thank you in advance for doing the right thing and banning the use 
of these polluting engines which serve no great purpose, this year 
please. 
 
Carol Wilhelmy 
San Mateo resident and taxpayer 
320 of 575

--- page 321 ---
Leaf Blower 
Regulations
April 3, 2023
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst, City Manager’s Office
321 of 575

--- page 322 ---
Leaf Blowers Impacts
Noise
Air quality
Human 
health
Environment
322 of 575

--- page 323 ---
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 10.80 
“Operation of Leaf Blowers”
• Limits leaf blower use between 8:00 am – 5:00 pm on weekdays 
and between 9:00 am – 5:00 pm on Saturdays
• Requires leaf blowers to run at low speeds and use nozzle extension 
to minimize noise
• Applies to residential zoning districts and in areas bordering 
residentially zoned neighborhoods
323 of 575

--- page 324 ---
City History with Leaf Blower Regulations
• Gas leaf blowers remain a common 
concern raised by community 
members to staff and Council 
members
• 2020 Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission Discussion
• FY 2022-23 City Council priority
• Five City Council meeting discussions
• Evaluation of three policy options:
1) Improve enforcement of current 
ordinance
2) Implement a certification and 
enforcement program limiting 
leaf blowers that meet a 65 
decibel (dB) threshold
3) Implement a complete ban on 
gas and electric  leaf blowers
2011-2013
Since 2013
324 of 575

--- page 325 ---
Electric Leaf Blower Rebate program
Commercial 
Landscaper
Resident
Rebate amount
75% of purchase price, 
max $500
50% of purchase price,
max $100
Rebates issued
8
32
Average rebate 
amount
$375
$75
325 of 575

--- page 326 ---
Electric Equipment and City Parks Operations
• Electric equipment
• Backpack and handheld blowers
• Hedge trimmers
• Chain saws
• Weed trimmers
• Key Challenges with Electric Blowers
• Battery life
• Performance
• Costs
• Shift away from blower use
326 of 575

--- page 327 ---
State Regulations
• AB 1346: Prohibits sale of new 
SORE (small off-road engines) 
beginning 2024
Image credit: California Air Resources Board (CARB)
327 of 575

--- page 328 ---
Policy Approaches
1) Time of 
day 
restrictions
2) Gas leaf 
blower ban 
(allows 
electric leaf 
blower)
3) 
Complete 
gas and 
electric leaf 
blower ban
328 of 575

--- page 329 ---
1) Time of Day Restrictions
• Most common type of leaf blower regulation
• Helps limit noise impacts but does not address GHG 
emissions or air quality impacts
• Possible ordinance enhancements
• Develop a zone approach (e.g., City of Burlingame)
• Establish narrower time restrictions (e.g., Town of Atherton)
• Expand restrictions to apply to more areas of the City
329 of 575

--- page 330 ---
2) Gas leaf blower ban
• Adopted by >20 cities in California
• Addresses GHG emissions and air 
quality; electric leaf blowers still 
result in some noise and fugitive 
dust
• Several Bay Area cities are taking 
up leaf blower bans  
330 of 575

--- page 331 ---
Feedback on Gas Leaf Blower Ban from Other 
Cities
• Enforcement continues to be the number one challenge with leaf 
blower bans
• Cities (Los Altos and Palo Alto) with longstanding gas leaf blower bans 
continue to hear complaints
• Cities with recently adopted gas leaf blower bans also shared that 
enforcement is a challenge and that the focus has been on education 
of the new ordinance
331 of 575

--- page 332 ---
3) Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
• Adopted by five cities in California
• Addresses all concerns related to 
noise, emissions and air quality
332 of 575

--- page 333 ---
Nov 9, 2022 SIC Feedback
• Discussion: 
• Concern about ban of gas leaf blowers addressing noise
• Concern about the use of gas generators to charge batteries
• One commissioner was opposed to a gas leaf blower ban because of 
financial and economic impacts to small landscaping businesses
• Most commissioners expressed support of gas leaf blower ban and 
regulations because of noise impacts to the community and health 
impacts to leaf blower operators.
• Commissioners also expressed interest in pairing a gas leaf blower 
ban with limiting leaf blower use to specific days in certain zones 
(like Burlingame’s approach)
333 of 575

--- page 334 ---
Landscaper Feedback
• Survey (17 responses in English, 1 response in Spanish)
• Concerns regarding gas leaf blower ban
• Majority opposed to gas leaf blower ban
• Increased amount of time jobs would take with 
• Ability to increase costs to cover the increased time
• Faultiness with equipment and need for expensive repairs
• Enforcement challenges
• Concerns regarding time of use restrictions
• 56% opposed: main argument that the limitation would constrain schedules 
and clients already have a preferred day for gardening services
334 of 575

--- page 335 ---
City Council feedback needed on three policy 
options:
1) Time of 
day 
restrictions
2) Gas leaf 
blower ban 
(allows 
electric leaf 
blower)
3) 
Complete 
gas and 
electric leaf 
blower ban
335 of 575

--- page 336 ---
Thank You
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst, City Manager’s Office
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
336 of 575

--- page 337 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 23-7343
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Update – Review Council Direction on Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on the base densities and height limits that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update’s Land 
Use Element, and provide direction on how Measure Y should be incorporated into the General Plan Update.
BACKGROUND:
General Plan Update
The City’s comprehensive General Plan Update (GPU) began in fall 2018 with a series of visioning workshops and 
community meetings. In 2019 and 2020, the General Plan team held a series of community meetings and events to 
establish the ten General Plan study areas, which were selected based on their proximity to transit and/or were areas in 
transition (aging shopping centers or concentrations of underutilized buildings and sites). Subsequent community outreach 
and engagement meetings were held to create a range of land use and circulation alternatives, confirm the draft 
alternatives, and select the preferred land use and circulation scenarios. In April 2022, the preferred land use and 
circulation scenarios were selected by the City Council, with the land use scenario subsequently confirmed in July 2022. 
Following selection of preferred land use and circulation scenarios, the GPU’s draft goals, policies and actions were 
published in July 2022, followed by community outreach and engagement (public meetings, workshops, and pop-up 
events, as well as an online survey) and public meetings with the General Plan Subcommittee (GPS) and Planning 
Commission in the summer and early fall.  In October and November 2022, the City Council provided direction on the 
goals, policies and actions that would be incorporated into the draft General Plan.  Overarching direction on the GPU’s 
goals, policies and actions included a focus on sustainability and resilience, planning for sufficient housing to meet current 
and future needs, supporting a multimodal transportation system, expanding parks, open space and recreational 
amenities, and enhancing community outreach and engagement. More information about the General Plan Update 
process, including technical reports, community input and meeting materials and recordings, is available online at 
www.StriveSanMateo.org.
2022 Community Opinion Survey
In the beginning of 2022, during community outreach for the GPU’s alternatives phase, the City conducted a statistically 
signifigant survey about a range of topics, including land use and housing. The survey sample size included 775 San Mateo 
adult residents and was administered in English and Spanish between January 21 and February 2, 2022.  The results of the  
Community Opinion Survey were presented to the City Council on March 7, 2022.  The following summarizes the main 
findings concerning building heights and density:
•
When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and community amenities 
and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo residents indicated they would support 
337 of 575

--- page 338 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings downtown and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher 
percentage (68%) indicated they would support buildings up to eight stories.
•
When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights low and 
minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods were the least important when 
planning for future housing in the City.
The March 7, 2022 agenda report can be viewed on the City’s Public Meeting Portal. The 2022 Community Opinion Survey 
results can be viewed as Attachment 1. 
City Council Study Session
On March 6, 2023, the City Council held a study session on the General Plan Update, with a focus on providing direction on 
the height and density ranges that should go into the Land Use Element, how Measure Y should be incorporated into the 
General Plan and if a ballot initiative to update Measure Y should be pursued, and if any other policies or programs should 
be considered.  Following a presentation from the General Plan team, clarifying questions and comments from 17 
members of the public (11 in-person and six remotely), the Council deliberated on the topics of the heights and densities 
that should go into the General Plan Update, how to address Measure Y, and if there were other policies or 
programs/actions that should be included in the GPU.  Following deliberation, staff confirmed that a majority of Council 
supported the following direction: 
1.
Supported the height and density ranges associated with each land use designation are appropriate to be included 
in the Public Review Draft General Plan, with the following changes: 1) set the maximum height for Office High at 
seven stories, and 2) remove High II (up to 200 units/acre and 10 stories) for the Residential and Mixed-Use land 
use designations. 
2.
Supported the Measure Y framework proposed by staff with target for an updated ballot measure on the 
November 2024 election, with the following direction: 1) conduct a statistically significant survey to test ballot 
feasibility, and 2) conduct robust outreach to all members of the community with materials and large graphics that 
are legible and easy to understand. 
3.
Regarding other policies or programs/actions in the General Plan Update that should be evaluated for potential 
updates or revisions, Council supported maintaining the draft local hiring and living wage policies/actions but 
provided language revisions to update three of the four.
The meeting minutes were adopted by the City Council on March 20, 2023 (see Attachment 2).  At the end of this meeting, 
during Reports and Announcements, Mayor Lee asked for clarification on the direction that was provided on the General 
Plan Update and noted that there may have been some confusion between what was outlined in the meeting minutes and 
the intent of a majority of the Council. To ensure that there was not any confusion on the direction, a majority of Council 
requested that this item be brought back in order to confirm the direction that was provided on the General Plan Update. 
Specific elements of Council’s direction to be confirmed included: 
1.
Should Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be removed from consideration?
2.
Should a land use map with Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be studied in the Environmental Impact 
Report? 
3.
When should a statistically reliable survey be conducted?
4.
Should the survey ask about community support for including Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II 
designations in the General Plan or should it test ballot language feasibility for an update to Measure Y?  
NEXT STEPS:
Following this meeting, the General Plan team will incorporate Council’s direction into the draft General Plan and proceed 
accordingly. Publication of the draft General Plan is now targeted for June 2023. The draft General Plan will then be 
available for review and input from the community, the General Plan Subcommittee, the Planning Commission, and the 
338 of 575

--- page 339 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council in summer and fall of 2023. No decisions are final until the City Council adopts the General Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct budgetary impacts to taking this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council is not taking any formal actions related to the General Plan Update at this study session, which is not a 
project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that this activity will not cause a physical change in the 
environment (Public Resources Code 21065). Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) for the General 
Plan Update is underway, with publication of the DEIR for public review anticipated in summer of 2023. The DEIR will have 
a 45-day public comment period once it is published. A Final EIR will be prepared prior to any formal decisions on the 
updated General Plan.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
All written comments that have been submitted on the General Plan Update are available online at 
www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments. This link also includes all comments that have been submitted 
since the beginning of the GPU effort in September 2018.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2022 Community Opinion Survey
Att 2 – 2023-03-06 Regular Meeting Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7207
339 of 575

--- page 340 ---
COMMUNITY OPINION SURVEY
SUMMARY REPORT

PREPARED FOR THE
City oF SAN MaTEo

FEBRUARY 21, 2022

Bev
SDRUENORTH | coca”

aa R E S E A R C H 760.632.9900 www.TN-RESEARCH.COM


--- page 341 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
341 of 575

--- page 342 ---
Table of Contents
i
City of San Mateo
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
T A B L E  O F  C O N T E N T S
Table of Contents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
List of Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
List of Figures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iv
Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Purpose of Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Overview of Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Statistical Significance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Organization of Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Disclaimer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
About True North . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Just the Facts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Quality of Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
City Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Housing & Land Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Mobility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Communications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Conclusions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Quality of Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Overall Quality of Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Question 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
What do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo?. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Question 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
What Should Be Changed?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Question 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
City Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Overall Satisfaction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Question 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Specific Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Question 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Differentiators of Opinion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
housing & Land Use. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Affordable Housing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Question 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Factors to Prioritize when Planning Housing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Question 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Building Height & Density Trade-offs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Question 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Question 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Mobility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Frequency of Mode Use  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Question 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Strategies to Reduce Future Congestion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Question 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Active Transportation Trade-Offs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Question 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Communications. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Overall Satisfaction With Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Question 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Topics of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Question 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Question 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
342 of 575

--- page 343 ---
Table of Contents
ii
City of San Mateo
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sources of Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Question 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Communication Preferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Question 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Background & Demographics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Questionnaire Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Programming, Pre-Test & Translation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Sample, Recruiting & Data Collection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Margin of Error due to Sampling. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Data Processing & Weighting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Rounding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Questionnaire & Toplines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
343 of 575

--- page 344 ---
List of Tables
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 iii
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
L I S T  O F  T A B L E S
Table 1
Rating City of San Mateo by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 2
Rating City of San Mateo by Years in San Mateo & Gender (Showing % Excellent
& Good)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 3
Rating City of San Mateo by Age (Showing % Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 4
Rating City of San Mateo by Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65 in Hsld (Showing %
Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 5
Rating City of San Mateo by Ethnicity & Home Ownership Status (Showing %
Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 6
Like Most About San Mateo by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Table 7
Changes to Improve City by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Table 8
Satisfaction With City Services by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 9
Satisfaction With City Services by Overall Satisfaction With City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 10
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Years in San Mateo, Adult
Over 65 in Hsld & Survey Language (Showing % Too Little)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 11
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Age (Showing % Too Little). . . . . . 21
Table 12
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Gender, Child in Hsld & Home
Ownership Status (Showing % Too Little) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 13
Importance of Issues of City Development by Years in San Mateo & Overall
Satisfaction (Showing % Extremely Important) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 14
Importance of Issues of City Development by Age (Showing % Extremely
Important)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Table 15
Importance of Issues of City Development by Child in Hsld, Adult Over 65 in
Hsld & Survey Language (Showing % Extremely Important)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Table 16
Importance of Issues of City Development by Ethnicity & Home Ownership
Status (Showing % Extremely Important) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 17
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Years in San Mateo & Gender (Showing % High
Priority). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 18
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Age (Showing % High Priority) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 19
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Child in Hsld, Adult Over 65 in Hsld & Survey
Language (Showing % High Priority). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 20
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Ethnicity & Home Ownership Status
(Showing % High Priority)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 21
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Table 22
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Age (Showing % Very Effective). . . . . 44
Table 23
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Ethnicity & Overall Satisfaction
(Showing % Very Effective). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Table 24
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Child in Hsld, Satisfaction With 
Communication & Survey Language (Showing % Very Effective)45
Table 25
Demographics of Sample by Study Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
344 of 575

--- page 345 ---
List of Figures
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 iv
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
L I S T  O F  F I G U R E S
Figure 1
Rating City of San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Figure 2
Like Most About San Mateo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Figure 3
Changes to Improve City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Figure 4
Overall Satisfaction by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Figure 5
Overall Satisfaction by Years in San Mateo, Child in Hsld & Survey Language. . . . . 16
Figure 6
Overall Satisfaction by Age & Gender  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Figure 7
Overall Satisfaction by Ethnicity, Home Ownership Status & Adult Over 65 in
Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Figure 8
Satisfaction With City Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Figure 9
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Figure 10 Importance of Issues of City Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Figure 11 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings. . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 12 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
stories by Years in San Mateo & Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 13 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
Stories by Child in Hsld, Anticipated Years in San Mateo & Adult Over 65
in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Figure 14 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
Stories by Ethnicity, Home Ownership Status & Survey Language. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Figure 15 Frequency of Mode Use Within City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Figure 16 Frequency of Mode Use Within City by Overall, Age & Overall Satisfaction  . . . . . . 30
Figure 17 Frequency of Mode Use Within City by Employment Status & Ethnicity. . . . . . . . . . 30
Figure 18 Strategies to Reduce Traffic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Figure 19 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Figure 20 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Years in San
Mateo & Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Figure 21 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Child in Hsld
& Anticipated Years in San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 22 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Ethnicity,
Home Ownership Status & Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 23 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Employment
Status & Work Commute Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 24 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Traveling
Within City at Least 1x Per Week & Adult Over 65 In Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Figure 25 Satisfaction With Communication by Study Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Figure 26 Satisfaction With Communication by Years in San Mateo, Child in Hsld & Adult
Over 65 in Hsld. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 27 Satisfaction With Communication by Age & Gender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 28 Satisfaction With Communication by Ethnicity, Overall Satisfaction, Home
Ownership Status & Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 29 Interested in Receiving More Information About City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Figure 30 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Years in San Mateo,
Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65 in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Figure 31 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Age & Gender  . . . . . . . . . 40
Figure 32 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Ethnicity, Overall
Satisfaction, Home Ownership Status & Survey Language  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Figure 33 Information Topics Desired. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Figure 34 Information Sources by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Figure 35 Information Sources by Study Year by Overall, Age & Satisfaction With
Communication  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Figure 36 Information Sources by Study Year by Ethnicity, Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65
in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
345 of 575

--- page 346 ---
List of Figures
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
v
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Figure 37 Information Sources by Study Year by Years in San Mateo, Overall Satisfaction
& Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Figure 38 Effectiveness of Communication Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Figure 39 Maximum Margin of Error . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
346 of 575

--- page 347 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
1
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I N T R O D U C T I O N
Incorporated in 1894, the City of San Mateo encompasses 15.9 square miles in the San Francisco
Bay Area and is currently home to an estimated 105,661 residents.1 One of only two charter cit-
ies in San Mateo County, the City is governed by a five-member City Council, while the City’s
daily operations are managed by a dedicated team of employees that provide a full suite of ser-
vices to residents and the local business community.
To monitor its progress in meeting residents’ needs, the City engages residents on a daily basis
and receives periodic subjective feedback regarding its performance and policies. Although
these informal feedback mechanisms are a valuable source of information for the City in that
they provide timely and accurate information about the opinions of specific residents, it is
important to recognize that they do not necessarily provide an accurate picture of the commu-
nity as a whole. For the most part, informal feedback mechanisms rely on the resident to initiate
feedback, which creates a self-selection bias. The City receives feedback only from those resi-
dents who are motivated enough to initiate the feedback process. Because these residents tend
to be those who are either very pleased or very displeased with a particular service or policy,
their collective opinions are not necessarily representative of the City’s resident population as a
whole.
PURPOSE OF STUDY   The motivation for the current study was to design and employ a
methodology that would avoid the self-selection bias noted above and thereby provide the City
with a statistically reliable understanding of its residents’ satisfaction, priorities, opinions, and
concerns as they relate to city services, facilities, and policies. Ultimately, the survey results and
analyses presented in this report will provide Council and staff with information that can be used
to make sound, strategic decisions in a variety of areas including service improvements and
enhancements, measuring and tracking internal performance, budgeting, and community out-
reach.
In addition to gathering performance-related feedback, the survey was also designed to help
inform the City’s General Plan update. Like most California cities, the City of San Mateo relies on
its General Plan to guide decisions with respect to land use, development, mobility, sustainabil-
ity, and related policy matters. Although the City Council, staff, and consultants have played an
important role in gathering data and organizing the update process, it was the desire of the City
that the citizens of San Mateo be the true inspiration for the Plan. Accordingly, a portion of the
survey was dedicated to understanding San Mateo residents’ needs and opinions as they relate
to issues that will be addressed in the General Plan, with a focus on mobility and how best to
plan for future housing as required by State law.
To assist in this effort, the City selected True North Research to design the research plan and
conduct the survey. Broadly defined, the survey was designed to:
•
Identify key issues of importance for residents, as well as their perceptions of the quality of 
life in San Mateo;
1. US Census estimate, April 2020.
347 of 575

--- page 348 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
2
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
Measure residents’ overall satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services, 
and their satisfaction with a variety of specific services;
•
Gather opinions on General Plan topics with a focus on mobility and housing;
•
Determine satisfaction with (and perceived effectiveness of) the City’s communication with 
residents; and
•
Collect additional background and demographic data that are relevant to understanding res-
idents’ perceptions, needs, and interests.
OVERVIEW OF METHODOLOGY   A full description of the methodology used for this
study is included later in this report (see Methodology on page 47). In brief, the survey was
administered to a random sample of 775 adults who reside in the City of San Mateo. The survey
followed a mixed-method design that employed multiple recruiting methods (mailed letters,
email, text, and telephone) and multiple data collection methods (telephone and online). Admin-
istered in English and Spanish between January 21 and February 2, 2022, the average interview
lasted 18 minutes.
STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE   This is not the first statistically reliable community survey
conducted for the City of San Mateo. A similar study was conducted by True North for the City in
2020, and many of the questions included in the 2022 survey were purposely tracked from the
prior survey. Because there is a natural interest in tracking the City’s performance in meeting the
evolving needs of its residents, where appropriate the results of the current study are compared
with the results of identical questions included in the 2020 survey. In such cases, True North
conducted the appropriate tests of statistical significance to identify changes that likely reflect
actual changes in public opinion between the prior survey (2020) and the current (2022), as
opposed to being due to chance associated with selecting two samples independently and at ran-
dom. Differences between the two studies are identified as statistically significant if we can be
95% confident that the differences reflect an actual change in public opinion between the two
studies. Statistically significant differences within response categories over time are denoted by
the † symbol which appears in the figure next to the appropriate response value for 2022.
ORGANIZATION OF REPORT   This report is designed to meet the needs of readers who
prefer a summary of the findings as well as those who are interested in the details of the results.
For those who seek an overview of the findings, the sections titled Just the Facts and Conclusions
are for you. They provide a summary of the most important factual findings of the survey in bul-
let-point format and a discussion of their implications. For the interested reader, this section is
followed by a more detailed question-by-question discussion of the results from the survey by
topic area (see Table of Contents), as well as a description of the methodology employed for col-
lecting and analyzing the data. And, for the truly ambitious reader, the questionnaire used for
the interviews is contained at the back of this report (see Questionnaire & Toplines on page 50),
and a complete set of crosstabulations for the survey results is contained in Appendix A.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS   True North thanks the City of San Mateo for the opportunity to
conduct the study and for contributing valuable input during the design stage of this study. The
collective experience, insight, and local knowledge provided by city representatives and staff
improved the overall quality of the research presented here.
348 of 575

--- page 349 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
3
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DISCLAIMER   The statements and conclusions in this report are those of the authors
(Dr. Timothy McLarney and Richard Sarles) at True North Research, Inc. and not necessarily those
of the City of San Mateo. Any errors and omissions are the responsibility of the authors.
ABOUT TRUE NORTH   True North is a full-service survey research firm that is dedicated to
providing public agencies with a clear understanding of the values, perceptions, priorities, and
concerns of their residents and customers. Through designing and implementing scientific sur-
veys, focus groups, and one-on-one interviews, as well as expert interpretation of the findings,
True North helps its clients to move with confidence when making strategic decisions in a variety
of areas—such as planning, policy evaluation, performance management, establishing fiscal pri-
orities, passing revenue measures, and developing effective public information campaigns.
During their careers, Dr. McLarney (President) and Mr. Sarles (Principal Researcher) have
designed and conducted over 1,200 survey research studies for public agencies—including more
than 400 studies for California municipalities and special districts.
349 of 575

--- page 350 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
4
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J U S T  T H E  F A C T S
The following is an outline of the main factual findings from the survey. For the reader’s conve-
nience, we have organized the findings according to the section titles used in the body of this
report. Thus, to learn more about a particular finding, simply turn to the appropriate report sec-
tion.
QUALITY OF LIFE   
•
San Mateo residents provided the most positive ratings for the overall quality of life in the
City (85% excellent or good), San Mateo as a place to shop and dine (77%), and as a place to
raise a family (68%).
•
Although still rated favorably by over half of respondents, residents provided somewhat
softer ratings for San Mateo as a place to work (62%) and as a place to recreate (59%).
•
Just over one-third of residents provided a favorable rating for San Mateo as a place to retire
(37%), although approximately 13% held no opinion or did not provide a rating. 
•
When asked what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo that city government
should make sure to preserve in the future, residents were most apt to cite parks and recre-
ation facilities and opportunities (24%), followed by shopping and dining opportunities
(16%), proximity to surrounding cities/areas (12%), and the open/green spaces and moun-
tains (12%). Other specific attributes that were mentioned by at least 5% of respondents
included San Mateo’s diversity of business, cultures, and activities (9%), small town atmo-
sphere (8%), low crime rate/public safety (7%), downtown area (7%), and friendly people/
neighbors (6%). 
•
When residents were asked to indicate the one thing city government could change to make
San Mateo a better place to live, now and in the future, providing more affordable housing
was the most common (19%), followed by limiting growth and preserving open space (13%),
improving public safety/more police presence (8%), and improving and maintaining infra-
structure, streets and roads (7%).
CITY SERVICES   
•
Close to three-quarters (74%) of San Mateo residents indicated they were either very (25%) or
somewhat (49%) satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services. Approxi-
mately 16% were very or somewhat dissatisfied, whereas 10% were unsure or unwilling to
share their opinion. 
•
Residents were asked to rate their satisfaction with 18 specific services provided by the City
of San Mateo. Although the majority of residents surveyed were satisfied with 13 of the 16
services tested, they were most satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide fire protection,
prevention, and emergency medical services (94% very or somewhat satisfied), followed by
maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and parking garages (91%),
provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities (87%), provide paths and trails for walk-
ing, jogging, and running (82%), and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
(81%).
•
At the other end of the spectrum, respondents were less satisfied with the City’s efforts to
facilitate the creation of affordable housing (33%), address homelessness (42%), manage
traffic congestion (48%), and maintain local streets and roads (54%).
350 of 575

--- page 351 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
5
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HOUSING & LAND USE   
•
Approximately two-thirds of residents indicated that there is currently too little housing that
is affordable for middle-income (67%) and low-income families (64%) in the City of San
Mateo.
•
When asked to prioritize among a list of factors the City could consider as it plans for addi-
tional housing units as required by state law, ensuring adequate water supplies (98% at least
somewhat important) was viewed as the most important factor, followed by preserving open
space and creating new park lands (97%), minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
(95%), creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive
(94%), and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (93%).
•
When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building
heights low (68%) and minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighbor-
hoods (68%) were the least important when planning for future housing in the City.
•
When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and
community amenities and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo
residents indicated they would support concentrating new housing in higher-density build-
ings downtown and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher percentage (68%) indicated they
would support buildings up to eight stories.
MOBILITY   
•
The vast majority of residents (87%) indicated they use a personal vehicle on a weekly basis
when traveling within the City of San Mateo, while 45% reported that they walk from their
home to a local store or restaurant at least once per week. Less than one-in-five respondents
indicated that they ride a bicycle or scooter (19%), use public transit such as a bus or train
(8%), or use Uber, Lyft, or a taxi (4%) at least once per week when traveling within the City of
San Mateo.
•
Among strategies the City could consider to reduce vehicle trips and mitigate growth-
induced congestion in the future, improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to
walk and bike to school (84% high or medium priority) and improving sidewalks, crosswalks,
pedestrian safety, signs and infrastructure to encourage more walking (84%) were widely
viewed as the top priorities, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more
routes and more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas (71%), provid-
ing financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit use (64%), and expanding the
network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%).
•
Sixty-four percent (64%) of respondents indicated they generally support adding bike lanes
and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires removing a vehicle lane or parking
spaces in certain locations.
COMMUNICATIONS   
•
Overall, 62% of respondents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communi-
cate with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means in
2022. The remaining respondents were either dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this
respect (25%) or unsure of their opinion (13%).
•
Thirty percent (30%) of respondents indicated the were interested in receiving more informa-
tion from the City.
351 of 575

--- page 352 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
6
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
The most commonly mentioned topics of interest were information about the City’s future
commercial and residential development plans (31%), affordable housing (13%), street/road
and infrastructure maintenance (13%), environmental issues (8%), public transportation (7%),
public safety/crime statistics (7%), and recreation programs (7%).
•
When asked to identify the information sources they currently use most often for news,
information, and programming in San Mateo, the most frequently cited sources were the San
Mateo Daily Journal and email notifications from the City, both mentioned by 30% of respon-
dents. These sources were followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed to the
home from the City (24%), Nextdoor (23%), the Internet not including the City’s site (18%),
the City’s website (15%), and friends/family/associates/word of mouth (15%). 
•
Respondents indicated that email was the most effective method for the City to communi-
cate with them (84% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards, letters, and news-
letters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 78%), social media like Facebook, Twitter, and
Nextdoor (78%), and the City’s website (72%).
•
Townhall meetings (52%), television programs (41%), and advertisements in local papers
(40%) were generally viewed by residents as less effective ways for the City to communicate
with them.
352 of 575

--- page 353 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
7
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O N C L U S I O N S
As noted in the Introduction, this study was designed to provide the City of San Mateo with a sta-
tistically reliable understanding of its residents’ satisfaction, opinions, and priorities as they
relate to city services, facilities and policies, as well as topics pertinent to the General Plan
update. Whereas subsequent sections of this report are devoted to conveying the detailed results
of the survey, in this section we attempt to ‘see the forest through the trees’ and note how the
collective results of the survey answer some of the key questions that motivated the research.
How well is the City per-
forming in meeting the 
needs of San Mateo resi-
dents?
The two years leading up to the 2022 Community Opinion Survey were
punctuated by difficult and dramatic events in San Mateo. The coronavi-
rus pandemic that arrived in early 2020 has taken lives, threatened liveli-
hoods, and forced dramatic changes in the way residents live, work,
socialize, and play. Non-essential businesses were shuttered for weeks
or months at a time to curb the spread of COVID-19, and the City’s oper-
ations were also adjusted to protect public health and adhere to State
and County guidelines. Services that could be effectively moved to an
online format were able to continue in that form, whereas other pro-
grams and services were modified, curtailed, or canceled to protect the
safety of the public and City employees. Many city facilities were also
closed periodically to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including City
Hall.
Against this turbulent backdrop, residents’ opinions of their community
and city government remained positive. Approximately three-quarters of
residents (74%) indicated they were satisfied with the City’s overall
efforts to provide municipal services, whereas just 16% were dissatisfied
and the remaining 10% were unsure or did not provide a response. The
percentage of respondents who indicated they were very satisfied with
the City’s overall performance also increased significantly between 2020
and 2022, and satisfaction was widespread across resident subgroups
(see Overall Satisfaction on page 15).
The high level of satisfaction expressed with the City’s performance in
general was also mirrored in residents’ assessments of the City’s perfor-
mance in providing specific services, with the highest satisfaction scores
assigned to the City’s efforts to provide fire protection, prevention, and
emergency medical services, maintain public buildings and facilities like
City Hall, libraries, and parking garages, provide parks, sports fields, and
recreation facilities, provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and
running, and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (see
Specific Services on page 17). 
The City’s performance in providing municipal services has contributed
to a high quality of life for residents. Indeed, the vast majority of resi-
dents surveyed in 2022 (85%) rated the quality of life in the City of San
Mateo as excellent or good, a statistically significant increase of 4% when
353 of 575

--- page 354 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
8
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
compared to 2020. This sentiment was also widespread, with the per-
centage who rated the quality of life as excellent or good exceeding 75%
across every identified resident subgroup (see Overall Quality of Life on
page 10). When asked in an open-ended manner to describe the things
they value most about living in San Mateo that they would like to pre-
serve in the future, parks and recreation facilities and opportunities
topped the list, followed by shopping and dining opportunities, proxim-
ity to surrounding cities/areas, and the open/green spaces and moun-
tains (see What do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo? on page 11).
Where should the City 
focus its efforts in the 
future?
In addition to measuring the City’s current performance, a key goal of
this study is to look forward and identify opportunities to adjust ser-
vices, improve facilities, and/or refine communications strategies to best
meet the community’s evolving needs and expectations. Although resi-
dent satisfaction in San Mateo is generally high (see above), there is
always room for improvement. Below we note some of the areas that
present the best opportunities in this regard.
Considering respondents’ verbatim answers regarding what they feel city
government could do to make San Mateo a better place to live (see What
Should Be Changed? on page 13) and the levels of satisfaction found in
specific service areas (see Specific Services on page 17), the top priorities
are: facilitating the creation of more affordable housing, limiting
growth/preserving open space, addressing homelessness, managing
traffic congestion, maintaining local streets and roads, improving public
safety, and improving city-resident communication.
With the recommendation that the City focus on these areas, it is equally
important to stress that when it comes to improving satisfaction in ser-
vice areas, the appropriate strategy is often a combination of better com-
munication and actual service improvements. It may be, for example,
that many residents are simply not aware of the City’s ongoing infra-
structure improvement efforts, or the limits of what a city can do to
address homelessness. Choosing the appropriate balance of actual ser-
vice improvements and efforts to raise awareness on these matters will
be a key to maintaining and improving the community’s overall satisfac-
tion in the short- and long-term.
What criteria do resi-
dents want the City to 
prioritize when plan-
ning for future housing?
Affordable housing (or lack thereof) has become a hot topic in many
communities, increasing in saliency during the past few years along with
rising rents and home prices. When asked directly, most respondents felt
there was too little affordable housing (of any type) in San Mateo, and
increasing the availability of affordable housing was the most frequently
mentioned change that residents indicated would make San Mateo a bet-
ter place to live, now and in the future.
354 of 575

--- page 355 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
9
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When asked to rate various criteria the City could consider as it explores
different ways that it could accommodate future housing, factors related
to environmental sustainability tended to rise to the top of the list
among survey respondents. Of the 18 factors tested, ensuring adequate
water supplies was viewed as the most important factor, followed by pre-
serving open space and creating new park lands, minimizing vehicle
trips and traffic congestion, creating pedestrian-friendly areas that
encourage people to walk rather than drive, and minimizing pollution
and greenhouse gas emissions. When compared to the other factors
tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights low and
minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighbor-
hoods were the least important when planning for future housing in the
City (see Factors to Prioritize when Planning Housing on page 21).
The desire to preserve land for parks and community spaces was also
evident in residents’ willingness to accept taller, high-density housing up
to 12 stories (64%) or eight stories (68%) downtown and near transit if it
would reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and community
amenities while also minimizing the impacts of new housing in existing
neighborhoods (see Building Height & Density Trade-offs on page 26).
What actions do resi-
dents prioritize for mini-
mizing vehicle trips and 
congestion in the future?
One of the key challenges when planning for population growth and
future housing is the issue of mobility. Put simply, adding housing and
people to a community will naturally lead to more congestion and
decreased mobility unless improvements are made to the transportation
system to accommodate the additional demand and/or vehicle demand
is mitigated through use of alternative modes. Accordingly, the survey
explored the types of actions and strategies residents would prioritize
for minimizing growth-induced congestion in the future.
Improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike
to school (84% high or medium priority) and improving sidewalks, cross-
walks, pedestrian safety, signs and infrastructure to encourage more
walking (84%) were widely viewed as the top priorities among the actions
tested, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more routes
and more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas
(71%), providing financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
use (64%), and expanding the network of dedicated bike lanes and
shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%). It is worth noting, more-
over, that 64% of respondents indicated they generally support adding
bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations (see Mobil-
ity on page 29).
355 of 575

--- page 356 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 10
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Q U A L I T Y  O F  L I F E
The opening series of questions in the survey was designed to assess residents’ top of mind per-
ceptions about the quality of life in San Mateo, what they would most like to preserve about the
City, as well as ways to improve the quality of life in San Mateo.
OVERALL QUALITY OF LIFE   At the outset of the interview, respondents were asked to
rate the City of San Mateo on a number of key dimensions—including overall quality of life, as a
place to raise a family, and as a place to work—using a five-point scale of excellent, good, fair,
poor, or very poor. As shown in Figure 1 below, the majority of residents shared favorable opin-
ions of San Mateo on five of the six aspects tested, with the most positive ratings provided for
the overall quality of life in the City (85% excellent or good), San Mateo as a place to shop and
dine (77%), and as a place to raise a family (68%). Although still rated favorably by over half of
respondents, residents provided somewhat softer ratings for San Mateo as a place to work (62%)
and as a place to recreate (59%). Just over one-third of residents provided a favorable rating for
San Mateo as a place to retire (37%), although approximately 13% held no opinion or did not pro-
vide a rating. It is worth noting that the percentage of residents who were unsure or unwilling to
share their opinion ranged from a low of 0% for the overall quality of life to a high of 18% for San
Mateo as a place to work.
Question 2   How would you rate: _____? Would you say it is excellent, good, fair, poor or very
poor?
FIGURE 1  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO
As shown in Table 1 on the next page, when compared to 2020, the percentage of respondents
in 2022 who offered ratings of excellent or good increased significantly for San Mateo as a place
to retire (+7%), as a place to shop and dine (+6%), as a place to work (+5%), and the overall quality
of life in the City (+4%). Tables 2 through 5, meanwhile, show how the ratings for each dimen-
sion tested in Question 2 varied by length of residence, gender, age, presence of a child in the
home, presence of a senior in the home, ethnicity, and home ownership. For ease of comparison,
the top three ratings within each subgroup are highlighted green.
24.5
26.2
26.1
17.8
18.2
9.9
60.5
51.1
42.0
44.4
41.1
27.2
11.4
18.3
16.8
15.5
28.0
22.6
3
3
3
3
5
1
10
18
18
3
1
3
10
9
13
6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
San Mateo as a place to work
San Mateo as a place to recreate
San Mateo as a place to retire
% Respondents
Excellent
Good
Fair
Poor
Very poor
Not sure/Prefer not to answer
 
356 of 575

--- page 357 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 11
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 1  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
TABLE 2  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & GENDER (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
TABLE 3  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY AGE (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
TABLE 4  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & 
GOOD)
TABLE 5  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
WHAT DO YOU LIKE MOST ABOUT LIVING IN SAN MATEO?   The next question in
this series asked residents to identify what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo
that city government should make sure to preserve in the future. Question 3 was posed in an
open-ended manner, thereby allowing residents to mention any aspect or attribute that came to
2022
2020
San Mateo as a place to retire
37.0
30.3
+6.7†
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
77.4
71.6
+5.8†
San Mateo as a place to work
62.2
57.6
+4.6†
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
85.0
80.9
+4.1†
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
68.1
65.1
+3.0
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.2
56.3
+3.0
Study Year
Change in
Excellent + 
Good
2020 to 2022
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Male
Female
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
88.8
87.0
88.5
82.0
86.4
85.9
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
83.6
77.2
85.6
73.0
79.0
77.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
63.8
64.7
72.9
69.8
69.4
68.9
San Mateo as a place to work
57.0
63.7
56.6
65.2
62.9
64.6
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.1
56.5
63.3
59.2
57.2
62.3
San Mateo as a place to retire
28.7
36.8
39.6
40.1
35.2
40.6
Gender (QD2)
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
88.2
83.6
83.4
86.0
86.0
86.0
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
86.1
81.8
75.5
77.1
77.8
70.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
69.4
62.2
71.8
73.5
69.8
67.5
San Mateo as a place to work
75.9
60.9
54.8
65.9
67.9
59.3
San Mateo as a place to recreate
67.0
54.5
60.7
62.1
62.8
55.2
San Mateo as a place to retire
54.5
30.6
28.1
30.7
32.1
51.7
Age (QD1)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
82.0
76.0
88.6
84.5
87.0
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
77.2
72.8
78.6
74.3
79.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
76.6
75.6
66.3
69.2
69.3
San Mateo as a place to work
68.2
65.6
61.2
58.1
65.5
San Mateo as a place to recreate
58.5
56.5
60.4
56.1
61.2
San Mateo as a place to retire
30.5
24.3
40.7
48.4
32.1
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
87.5
89.6
80.3
80.7
85.7
86.1
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
74.8
80.8
80.1
75.5
75.2
80.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
67.4
73.3
67.4
66.1
73.4
64.6
San Mateo as a place to work
59.6
65.4
66.3
53.1
61.0
65.1
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.4
64.9
56.9
51.2
59.4
59.9
San Mateo as a place to retire
33.1
40.2
42.9
29.6
40.0
33.5
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
Ethnicity (QD12)
357 of 575

--- page 358 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 12
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mind without being prompted by—or restricted to—a particular list of options. True North later
reviewed the verbatim responses and grouped them into the categories shown in Figure 2.
San Mateo residents were most apt to cite parks and recreation facilities and opportunities (24%)
as what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo and would like to preserve, followed
by shopping and dining opportunities (16%), proximity to surrounding cities/areas (12%), and
the open/green spaces and mountains (12%). Other specific attributes that were mentioned by at
least 5% of respondents included San Mateo’s diversity of business, cultures, and activities (9%),
small town atmosphere (8%), low crime rate/public safety (7%), downtown area (7%), and friendly
people/neighbors (6%). For the interested reader, Table 6 on the next page lists the top five
responses to Question 3 in 2020 and 2022.
Question 3   What do you like most about the City of San Mateo that should be preserved in the
future? 
FIGURE 2  LIKE MOST ABOUT SAN MATEO
23.6
16.0
12.8
12.4
11.7
8.9
8.3
6.6
6.6
4.8
4.4
3.0
2.8
2.7
2.5
2.5
2.4
2.4
2.0
1.8
3.2
6.3
0
5
10
15
20
25
Parks, recreation facilities, opportunities
Shopping, dining opportunities
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific
Proximity to surrounding cities, areas
Open, green space, mountains
Diversity of businesses, cultures, activities
Small town atmosphere
Low crime, public safety
Downtown area
Friendly people, neighbors
Weather, clean air
Good schools
Clean, well-maintained
Sense of community
Access to bay, ocean
Access to public transportation
Affordable houses
Historical places
Outdoor activities
Less crowded, traffic than other cities
Family friendly
Availability of parking
% Respondents
358 of 575

--- page 359 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 13
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 6  LIKE MOST ABOUT SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
WHAT SHOULD BE CHANGED?   In an open-ended manner similar to that described for
Question 3, all respondents were also asked to indicate the one thing that city government could
change to make San Mateo a better place to live. True North reviewed the verbatim responses to
Question 4 and grouped them into the categories shown in Figure 3. Among the specific changes
desired, providing more affordable housing was the most common (19%), followed by limiting
growth and preserving open space (13%), improving public safety/more police presence (8%),
and improving and maintaining infrastructure, streets and roads (7%). Approximately 14% could
not think of a desired change (10%) or reported that no changes are needed (4%). Table 7 shows
the top 5 responses to Question 4 in 2020 and 2022.
Question 4   If the city government could change one thing to make San Mateo a better place to
live now and in the future, what change would you like to see? 
FIGURE 3  CHANGES TO IMPROVE CITY
2022
2020
Parks, recreation 
facilities, 
opportunities
Parks, recreation 
facilities, 
opportunities
Shopping, dining 
opportunities
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Shopping, dining 
opportunities
Proximity to 
surrounding cities, 
areas
Small town 
atmosphere
Open, green space, 
mountains
Proximity to 
surrounding cities, 
areas
Study Year
18.8
12.9
10.0
7.5
7.1
6.3
6.0
5.2
5.1
3.7
3.5
3.2
3.2
3.0
3.0
2.6
2.5
2.5
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.2
3.7
3.3
0
5
10
15
20
Provide more affordable housing
Limit growth, preserve open space
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific
Improve public safety, more police presence
Improve, maintain infrastructure, streets, roads
Provide more shopping, dining opportunities
Reduce traffic congestion
Reduce cost of living
Address parking issues
Reduce taxes, fees
Beautify, clean up City
No changes needed / Everything is fine
Add, improve bike lanes
Improve, add parks, rec facilities
Reduce building permit restrictions
Enforce traffic laws
Improve public transit
Improve economy, jobs
Provide more activities, events for all ages
Improve schools, education
Address homeless issues
Improve City Council, gov process
Improve downtown area
Improve environmental efforts
% Respondents
359 of 575

--- page 360 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 14
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 7  CHANGES TO IMPROVE CITY BY STUDY YEAR
2022
2020
Provide more 
affordable housing
Provide more 
affordable housing
Limit growth, 
preserve open 
space
Reduce traffic 
congestion
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Limit growth, 
preserve open 
space
Improve public 
safety, more police 
presence
Improve, maintain 
infrastructure, 
streets, roads
Improve, maintain 
infrastructure, 
streets, roads
Improve parking
Study Year
360 of 575

--- page 361 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 15
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C I T Y  S E R V I C E S
After measuring respondents’ perceptions of the quality of life in San Mateo, the survey next
turned to assessing their opinions about the City’s performance in providing various municipal
services.
OVERALL SATISFACTION   The first question in this series asked respondents to indicate
if, overall, they were satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San Mateo is doing to pro-
vide city services. Because this question does not reference a specific program, facility, or service
and requested that the respondent consider the City’s performance in general, the findings of
this question may be regarded as an overall performance rating for the City.
As shown in Figure 4, close to three-quarters (74%) of San Mateo residents indicated they were
either very (25%) or somewhat (49%) satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide municipal ser-
vices. Approximately 16% were very or somewhat dissatisfied, whereas 10% were unsure or
unwilling to share their opinion. When compared to 2020, its worth noting that the percentage
of respondents indicating they were very satisfied with the City’s performance increased signifi-
cantly.
Question 5   Generally speaking, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San
Mateo is doing to provide city services?
FIGURE 4  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
The next three figures display how residents’ opinions about the City’s overall performance in
providing municipal services varied by years in San Mateo, children in the household, survey lan-
guage, age of the respondent, gender, ethnicity, home ownership status, and presence of an
adult 65 years and older in the household. The most striking pattern in the figures is that the
solid levels of satisfaction exhibited by respondents as a whole (see Figure 4 above) were gener-
ally echoed across resident subgroups, with satisfaction ranging from a low of 62% to a high of
90%.
53.9
12.4
8.4
24.5†
19.2
49.4†
10.6
5.3
5.2
9.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Not sure 
Very
dissatisfied
Somewhat
dissatisfied
Somewhat
satisfied
Very
satisfied
361 of 575

--- page 362 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 16
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 5  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & SURVEY LANGUAGE
FIGURE 6  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 7  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
22.4
18.5
26.7
24.3
27.8
50.5
52.6
49.7
49.5
48.2
23.7
28.2
23.1
Very
satisfied
25.9
48.4
48.8
49.5
Smwt
satisfied
49.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
English
Spanish
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Survey Language
% Respondents
18.5
24.6
27.8
23.1
52.7
52.4
50.3
48.9
Very
satisfied
52.6
24.8
23.4
18.3
Smwt
satisfied
37.3
56.4
46.2
49.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
% Respondents
20.2
29.9
24.1
25.5
56.3
43.2
48.6
51.1
18.9
32.5
20.1
Very
satisfied
23.3
53.7
45.4
43.3
Smwt
satisfied
52.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American Latino / Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
Yes
No
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents
362 of 575

--- page 363 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 17
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SPECIFIC SERVICES   Whereas Question 5 addressed the City’s overall performance, Ques-
tion 6 asked residents to rate their level of satisfaction with each of the 18 specific service areas
shown in Figure 8. The order in which the service areas were presented was randomized for each
respondent to avoid a systematic position bias, although they have been sorted from high to low
in Figure 8 according to the percentage of respondents who indicated they were satisfied with
the City’s performance in providing the service. For comparison purposes between the services,
only respondents who held an opinion (satisfied or dissatisfied) are included in the figure. Those
who did not have an opinion were removed from this analysis.2
At the top of the list, respondents were most satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide fire pro-
tection, prevention, and emergency medical services (94% very or somewhat satisfied), followed
by maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and parking garages (91%),
provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities (87%), provide paths and trails for walking,
jogging, and running (82%), and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (81%). At
the other end of the spectrum, respondents were less satisfied with the City’s efforts to facilitate
the creation of affordable housing (33%), address homelessness (42%), manage traffic conges-
tion (48%), and maintain local streets and roads (54%).
Question 6   For each of the services I read next, I'd like you to tell me how satisfied you are with
the job the city is doing to provide the service. Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the city's
efforts to: _____, or do you not have an opinion?
FIGURE 8  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES
2. The percentage who held an opinion for each service is shown to the right of the service label in brackets.
45.3
39.1
39.3
30.2
34.0
29.2
22.0
20.6
21.2
22.7
22.9
16.6
20.4
21.7
14.0
10.3
10.2
9.1
48.6
52.2
47.6
51.5
46.7
48.1
53.3
54.7
54.0
51.6
46.6
49.5
45.3
40.1
40.1
37.5
31.6
23.8
32.2
32.3
28.1
19.9
39.0
24.0
18.8
19.8
16.7
14.2
15.1
13.4
9.4
6.8
4.3
16.5
19.0
20.8
23.7
26.7
4.2
5.0
4
2
2
8.3
6.7
9.7
10.2
25.8
19.3
8.5
8.1
5.0
15.4
14.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services [85%] 
Maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages [91%] 
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities [96%] 
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running [95%] 
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages [80%] 
Provide police and crime prevention services [88%] 
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks [88%] 
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters [68%] 
Protect the environment [80%] 
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations [84%] 
Provide bicycle lanes and paths [89%] 
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs [72%] 
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
[75%] 
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas [97%] 
Maintain local streets and roads [96%] 
Manage traffic congestion [93%] 
Address homelessness [78%] 
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing [80%] 
% Respondents Who Provided Opinion
Very satisfied
Somewhat satisfied
Somewhat dissatisfied
Very dissatisfied
363 of 575

--- page 364 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 18
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 8 displays the percentage of respondents who were satisfied with each service by study
year, and the difference between 2020 and 2022. When compared with the 2020 survey, satis-
faction with the City’s efforts to manage traffic congestion increasing significantly (+18%), while
satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (-4%),
police and crime prevention services (-5%), special events like community festivals and holiday
celebrations (-8%), and address homelessness (-9%) decreased significantly.
TABLE 8  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
DIFFERENTIATORS OF OPINION   For the interested reader, Table 9 on the next page
shows how the level of satisfaction with each specific service tested in Question 6 varied accord-
ing to residents’ overall performance ratings for the City (see Overall Satisfaction on page 15).
The table divides residents who were satisfied with the City’s overall performance into one
group and those dissatisfied into a second group. Also displayed is the difference between the
two groups in terms of the percentage who indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to
provide each service tested in Question 6 (far right column). For convenience, the services are
sorted by that difference, with the greatest differentiators of opinion near the top of the table.
When compared to their counterparts, those who were satisfied with the City’s overall perfor-
mance in providing city services were also more likely to express satisfaction with the City’s
efforts to provide each of the services tested in Question 6. That said, the greatest specific dif-
ferentiators of opinion between satisfied and dissatisfied residents were found with respect to
the City’s efforts to maintain local streets and roads, promote economic development to attract
new businesses and good-paying jobs to the community, maintain storm drains, sewers and
creeks, provide police and crime prevention services, and enforce code violations to address
issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction, and yards not being properly main-
tained.
At the other end of the spectrum, there was much less difference between the two resident
groups regarding their satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide fire protection, prevention,
and emergency medical services, and provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running.
2022
2020
Manage traffic congestion
47.9
30.3
+17.6†
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
65.8
62.0
+3.7
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters
75.3
73.8
+1.4
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs to community
66.1
65.5
+0.6
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks
75.3
75.1
+0.2
Maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages
91.3
91.5
-0.1
Maintain local streets and roads
54.0
54.3
-0.3
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities
86.9
88.6
-1.7
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services
93.9
95.9
-1.9
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
80.7
84.6
-3.9†
Provide police and crime prevention services
77.3
82.7
-5.3†
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations
74.2
82.5
-8.3†
Address homelessness
41.8
51.0
-9.1†
Protect the environment
75.2
N/A
N/A
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running
81.6
N/A
N/A
Provide bicycle lanes and paths
69.5
N/A
N/A
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas
61.8
N/A
N/A
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing
32.9
N/A
N/A
Study Year
Change in
Satisfaction
2020 to 2022
364 of 575

--- page 365 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 19
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 9  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES BY OVERALL SATISFACTION WITH CITY
Very or somewhat 
satisfied
Very or somewhat 
dissatisfied
Maintain local streets and roads
61.0
20.7
40.3
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs
74.7
35.3
39.4
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks
81.9
47.9
34.0
Provide police and crime prevention services
83.8
50.6
33.1
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
71.9
39.3
32.6
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas
67.9
36.3
31.7
Manage traffic congestion
53.9
22.5
31.4
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
87.3
56.1
31.2
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations
81.9
50.8
31.0
Protect the environment
81.3
50.5
30.8
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters
81.8
51.0
30.8
Address homelessness
47.8
20.7
27.1
Maintain public buildings, facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages
95.0
71.6
23.4
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities
90.1
71.5
18.6
Provide bicycle lanes and paths
74.3
56.3
18.0
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing
37.0
21.0
16.0
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running
84.8
69.6
15.1
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services
96.7
82.2
14.5
City's Overall Performance (Q5)
Difference Between 
Groups For Each 
Service
% Respondents Satisfied With Each 
Service
365 of 575

--- page 366 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 20
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H O U S I N G  &  L A N D  U S E
The General Plan will help shape the nature of San Mateo’s future development and redevelop-
ment—including the size, type, character, and location of new housing projects—as well as the
pace at which these changes occur. To help inform the City’s General Plan update, the survey
included a series of questions related to housing and density, as well as the factors that resi-
dents feel the City should prioritize when planning new housing.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING   The first question in this series simply asked respondents to
indicate whether there is currently too much, about the right amount, or too little affordable
housing in the City of San Mateo for middle-income and low-income families, respectively. Resi-
dents expressed similar opinions for both types of affordable housing, with approximately two-
thirds of residents indicating that there is currently too little housing that is affordable for mid-
dle-income (67%) and low-income families (64%). Approximately three-in-ten residents felt the
amount of affordable housing was about right or were unsure (middle income: 29%, low income:
28%), while just 5% felt there was too much housing that is affordable for middle-income families
and 8% shared the same sentiment for housing that is affordable for low-income families.
Question 7   As I read the following housing types, please tell me whether you feel there is cur-
rently too much, about the right amount, or too little of this type of housing in the City of San
Mateo.
FIGURE 9  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
Tables 10-12 on the next page display the percentage of residents who felt there is currently too
little of each affordable housing type in the City by key demographic traits. When compared to
their respective counterparts, younger residents (under 35), renters, and those who had lived in
the City between 10 and 14 years were the most likely to perceive there is not enough affordable
housing for low-income families in San Mateo, while those who completed the survey in Spanish,
renters, those between 35 and 44 years of age, and those who had lived in the City between 10
24.3
28.0
24.8
68.5
7.9
4.0
4.5
6.6
28.7†
71.7
64.1†
66.8†
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
2022
2020
Housing affordable for middle-income
families
Housing affordable for low-income
families
% Respondents
Too little
About right
Too much
366 of 575

--- page 367 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 21
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and 14 years were the most likely to indicate there is not enough affordable housing for middle-
income families.
TABLE 10  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE (SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
TABLE 11  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY AGE (SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
TABLE 12  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY GENDER, CHILD IN HSLD & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS 
(SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
FACTORS TO PRIORITIZE WHEN PLANNING HOUSING   California State law requires
that all cities plan for additional housing. With a general shortage of housing in California, the
state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan for thousands of new housing units. After pro-
viding this background information, Question 8 presented respondents with each of the factors
shown in Figure 10 on the next page and asked them how important they feel the item should be
as the City plans for future housing over the next 20 years. To ensure that respondents priori-
tized among the items, they were instructed to keep in mind that not all of the items can be
extremely important.
Although all of the factors tested in Question 8 were viewed as important by at least two-thirds
of respondents, factors that relate to environmental sustainability tended to rise to the top of the
list when it comes to planning future housing. Overall, ensuring adequate water supplies (98% at
least somewhat important) was viewed as the most important factor, followed by preserving
open space and creating new park lands (97%), minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
(95%), creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive (94%),
and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (93%).
When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights
low (68%) and minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods (68%)
were the least important when planning for future housing in the City.
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
68.3
65.1
72.9
64.7
63.5
68.7
65.8
75.8
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
67.3
61.5
72.0
60.7
62.1
65.1
63.5
64.8
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
60.6
71.5
75.3
63.9
63.5
62.4
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
87.5
72.8
58.3
58.9
53.4
60.3
Age (QD1)
Male
Female
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Own
Rent
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
66.6
67.7
67.7
65.5
66.3
59.3
75.1
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
63.0
65.9
57.6
50.3
67.2
51.0
78.1
Gender (QD2)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
367 of 575

--- page 368 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 22
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 8   California State law requires that all cities plan for additional housing. With a gen-
eral shortage of housing in California, the state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan for
thousands of new housing units. There are a variety of factors the City can consider when decid-
ing where new housing may be located and the types of housing that may be built. As I read the
following list of items, I'd like to know how important you feel the item should be as the City
plans for future housing over the next 20 years. Please keep in mind that not all of the items can
be extremely important.
FIGURE 10  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT
Tables 13-16 show the percentage of respondents in each respondent subgroup that identified a
factor as extremely important when the City plans for future housing. For the reader’s conve-
nience, the top five factors in each subgroup are highlighted in green. When considering just
those who indicated a factor was extremely important, three factors were consistently among the
top five across subgroups: ensuring adequate water supplies, creating homes that are affordable
for low- and middle-income residents, and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
62.0
42.9
33.9
40.1
44.0
29.2
28.1
30.8
39.2
45.0
26.2
25.1
22.2
17.3
27.8
12.7
24.2
20.7
30.8
35.3
41.3
35.4
34.5
43.3
37.0
38.5
35.2
28.6
31.9
39.6
30.8
31.2
30.8
33.3
21.4
22.3
4.7
18.5
19.4
18.0
14.3
20.4
26.5
22.1
16.7
17.0
27.5
20.6
32.1
36.5
24.3
35.3
22.8
25.1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Ensuring adequate water supplies
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
Producing revenue to pay for police, fire, city services to new housing units
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk of natural hazards,
climate change, or sea level rise
Creating homes that are affordable for low- and middle-income residents
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for at least the next 20 years
Creating bike lanes and paths
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new housing units
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated in disadvantaged areas
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying jobs
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods
Keeping building heights low
% Respondents
Extremely important
Very important
Somewhat important
368 of 575

--- page 369 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 23
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 13  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & OVERALL SATISFACTION 
(SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Ensuring adequate water supplies
55.1
62.0
69.2
63.6
62.8
64.1
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
54.5
46.7
44.8
40.4
45.0
42.1
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
49.9
47.5
43.5
40.6
43.6
40.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
41.4
42.9
47.7
42.6
42.0
40.6
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
46.1
43.1
39.9
36.7
42.3
28.5
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
42.8
33.7
32.3
40.6
39.0
39.0
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
31.0
28.4
26.3
38.3
34.3
35.5
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
37.6
26.8
29.6
29.2
32.4
25.7
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
20.6
28.7
35.7
31.7
29.2
33.4
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
17.8
25.9
30.4
32.7
26.4
39.5
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
30.4
25.7
23.6
28.1
27.0
31.6
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
17.4
18.3
21.8
33.3
27.0
26.5
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
26.4
27.0
25.0
24.1
25.6
20.7
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
10.8
16.9
19.2
33.2
23.0
37.5
Creating bike lanes and paths
28.5
23.3
15.8
20.5
22.3
18.1
Keeping building heights low
14.6
12.9
19.6
25.9
18.3
35.3
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
13.9
20.0
17.0
18.0
17.1
16.3
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
11.5
12.3
15.6
12.8
13.3
13.7
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
369 of 575

--- page 370 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 24
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 14  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY AGE (SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Ensuring adequate water supplies
46.0
58.1
63.3
67.2
64.5
68.6
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
50.2
58.3
42.8
40.4
36.9
42.4
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
49.0
46.3
40.3
42.8
39.8
50.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
27.8
39.4
47.8
48.1
48.2
40.0
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
36.1
49.3
34.9
44.1
42.5
30.7
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
41.5
40.9
31.6
35.7
35.5
46.1
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
26.9
28.0
36.1
35.7
40.9
35.1
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
26.4
37.5
30.8
30.5
29.6
23.6
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
21.0
19.9
30.2
35.2
33.0
36.8
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
13.9
17.3
27.8
29.2
34.4
40.6
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
41.7
32.3
28.4
25.7
20.9
22.6
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
21.7
19.6
19.1
27.5
37.9
32.8
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
27.1
22.4
22.7
30.7
20.7
30.3
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
16.0
12.3
22.7
28.2
34.0
31.5
Creating bike lanes and paths
13.9
21.8
21.4
32.0
24.2
17.2
Keeping building heights low
7.1
11.3
17.5
24.1
28.3
28.9
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
7.8
16.0
18.1
20.8
15.2
22.2
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
4.7
11.8
17.0
16.1
8.3
15.1
Age (QD1)
370 of 575

--- page 371 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 25
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 15  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY CHILD IN HSLD, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & SURVEY 
LANGUAGE (SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Ensuring adequate water supplies
69.4
67.5
58.8
64.9
60.8
61.5
69.1
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
43.2
39.6
46.9
39.6
48.8
42.9
74.8
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
44.4
39.1
44.6
43.8
45.0
43.0
57.2
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
46.9
44.4
41.5
39.4
43.9
42.9
42.5
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
39.1
39.0
40.6
31.9
43.4
39.4
49.6
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
38.2
34.8
40.3
46.1
37.1
38.5
48.7
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
32.2
27.1
33.5
35.5
32.4
33.2
43.6
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
26.5
26.0
32.5
26.4
33.1
29.6
46.8
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
34.2
33.1
26.3
34.1
26.3
29.2
28.4
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
29.4
25.1
27.0
39.2
22.8
28.2
27.0
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
28.8
28.7
27.6
25.9
28.5
27.5
31.2
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
25.3
21.0
26.4
30.8
23.5
25.9
31.2
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
23.4
19.6
26.1
25.4
25.1
24.3
36.4
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
28.9
25.7
21.0
29.6
21.0
24.4
21.1
Creating bike lanes and paths
24.1
19.6
21.2
18.4
23.7
22.0
25.3
Keeping building heights low
24.2
22.3
18.4
27.8
16.2
20.4
24.6
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
20.9
18.9
16.4
17.0
18.2
16.4
29.8
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
15.2
13.5
11.5
14.3
12.1
11.9
24.8
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
371 of 575

--- page 372 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 26
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 16  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % 
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
BUILDING HEIGHT & DENSITY TRADE-OFFS   Concentrating new housing in taller,
higher-density buildings downtown and near transit would allow more land in the City to be
reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community amenities, and will minimize change to
existing residential neighborhoods. Once apprised of this trade-off, respondents were simply
asked whether they would support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density
buildings up to 12 stories. Those who did not support buildings up to 12 stories were subse-
quently asked if they would support buildings up to eight stories. The answers to both questions
are combined in Figure 11 on the next page.
When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and com-
munity amenities and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo residents
indicated they would support concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings downtown
and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher percentage (68%) indicated they would support build-
ings up to eight stories. In general, newer residents (less than 10 years), younger residents
(under 35), those who anticipated living in the City 5 to 10 more years, those without a senior in
the home, Caucasians, Asians, and those who completed the survey in English were the most
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Ensuring adequate water supplies
61.2
63.1
58.3
69.6
65.3
59.0
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
45.3
35.4
53.7
46.8
27.7
64.4
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
44.6
40.0
44.9
49.3
43.6
44.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
43.2
44.2
40.2
37.5
49.9
36.4
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
41.1
40.5
38.3
41.0
40.1
41.0
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
38.7
38.5
40.7
42.2
38.8
40.6
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
37.9
29.1
28.4
47.8
35.7
31.7
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
33.5
25.2
28.3
42.1
29.9
32.3
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
27.8
30.4
26.7
30.4
33.4
25.1
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
28.3
29.9
23.2
34.8
32.8
23.4
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
29.8
18.9
28.8
45.2
22.3
33.1
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
25.9
24.5
28.2
27.1
26.6
25.7
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
24.6
26.7
24.7
22.6
24.2
25.2
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
26.2
22.8
19.0
26.7
32.9
14.8
Creating bike lanes and paths
21.5
18.4
22.1
33.6
21.1
24.1
Keeping building heights low
20.5
20.7
19.0
18.9
28.0
12.8
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
18.9
16.3
17.5
13.3
18.5
16.8
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
8.4
14.1
13.5
27.6
15.4
10.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
372 of 575

--- page 373 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 27
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
supportive of concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings up to eight stories down-
town and near transit (see figures 12-14).
Question 9   Concentrating new housing in taller, higher-density buildings downtown and near
transit would allow more land to be reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community ameni-
ties, and will minimize change to existing residential neighborhoods. Knowing this, would you
support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density buildings up to 12 stories.
Question 10   Would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density
buildings up to 8 stories.
FIGURE 11  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS
FIGURE 12  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY YEARS IN 
SAN MATEO & AGE
10.8
23.9
17.7
33.3
33.3
30.0
14.0
13.3
21.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Up to 12 stories
Up to 8 stories
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly
oppose
Somewhat
oppose
Somewhat
support
Strongly
support
Strongly
support at 12
stories
33.3
34.0
33.6
23.1
27.6
10.6
7.5
9.7
7.4
8.9
27.3
24.6
17.9
29.4
22.2
23.0
32.2
7.7
6.6
19.8
16.4
19.6
9.8
11.2
14.9
11.8
15.3
12.3
8.7
13.3
23.5
6.1
14.9
17.1
16.7
22.2
19.7
24.5
52.1
46.2
31.4
22.0
46.9
7.1
13.3
6.2
10.9
25.2
22.2
19.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Age (QD1)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
373 of 575

--- page 374 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 28
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 13  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY CHILD IN 
HSLD, ANTICIPATED YEARS IN SAN MATEO & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
FIGURE 14  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY 
ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
23.4
22.3
39.2
9.1
7.5
12.0
12.0
10.6
25.4
19.7
26.5
25.9
27.6
23.1
14.0
9.6
12.5
16.9
9.3
12.5
15.4
16.1
11.6
20.3
19.7
14.5
16.9
10.5
20.4
22.9
21.0
14.3
31.2
32.1
35.7
33.5
30.3
48.7
11.7
10.6
13.7
11.5
23.0
21.1
24.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Less than 5
5 to 10
11 to 15
16 or more
Yes
No
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
33.4
32.1
9.7
11.4
10.6
13.2
18.0
15.0
21.3
24.8
10.2
10.8
14.7
17.2
10.2
13.2
12.3
12.8
20.8
13.9
13.3
19.5
26.8
19.9
14.9
17.6
19.2
30.2
38.1
32.7
28.9
35.7
38.8
8.5
12.4
15.3
7.8
30.4
26.2
27.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
374 of 575

--- page 375 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 29
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
M O B I L I T Y
One of the key challenges when planning for population growth and future housing is the issue
of mobility. Put simply, adding housing and people to a community will naturally lead to more
congestion and decreased mobility unless improvements are made to the transportation system
to accommodate the additional demand and/or vehicle demand is mitigated through use of
alternative modes. Accordingly, the survey explored how residents tend to travel within San
Mateo, as well as the types of actions and strategies they would prioritize for minimizing growth-
induced congestion in the future.
FREQUENCY OF MODE USE   The first question in this series asked respondents how
often they use each of the modes listed in Figure 15 when traveling within the City of San Mateo.
As expected, the vast majority of residents (87%) indicated they use a personal vehicle on a
weekly basis when traveling within the City of San Mateo, while 45% reported that they walk from
their home to a local store or restaurant at least once per week. Less than one-in-five respon-
dents indicated that they ride a bicycle or scooter (19%), use public transit such as a bus or train
(8%), or use Uber, Lyft, or a taxi (4%) at least once per week when traveling within the City of San
Mateo. For the interested reader, figures 16 and 17 show how reported frequency of mode use
within the City of San Mateo varied by age, overall satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide
municipal services, employment status, and ethnicity.
Question 11   When traveling within the City of San Mateo, how often do you: _____?
FIGURE 15  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY
29.3
12.3
4.5
3.1
18.6
8.9
12.1
10.8
15.4
15.9
52.2
6.3
3
35.0
7.6
4.8
6.7
8.1
1
9.0
6.1
32.8
15.2
22.1
1 3
49.4
58.2
42
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Use personal vehicle
Walk from home to store,
restaurant
Ride a bicycle, scooter
Use public transit such as bus,
train
Use Uber, Lyft, taxi
% Respondents 
5+ days per wk
1-4 days per wk
2-3 days per mo
1 day per mo
< 1 day per mo
Never
Prefer not to answer
375 of 575

--- page 376 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 30
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 16  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY BY OVERALL, AGE & OVERALL SATISFACTION 
FIGURE 17  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS & ETHNICITY
STRATEGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE CONGESTION   The survey next transitioned to
exploring residents’ opinions about different actions the City could take in the future to reduce
the number of vehicle trips people make by driving in a typical day. For each of the actions
shown on the left of Figure 18, respondents were asked if the City should make the action a high
priority, medium priority, or low priority for the City’s future. Respondents were also allowed to
indicate that the City should not take the action. Although presented in a random order for each
respondent, the actions are sorted from high to low in the figure based on the percentage of
respondents that indicated an action is a high or medium priority.
Improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike to school (84% high or
medium priority) and improving sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs and infrastruc-
ture to encourage more walking (84%) were widely viewed as the top priorities among the actions
tested, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more routes and more frequent ser-
vice within San Mateo and to neighboring areas (71%), providing financial incentives to encour-
age greater use of transit use (64%), and expanding the network of dedicated bike lanes and
shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%).
91
92
88
94
91
92
90
92
90
47
56
44
19
14
29
17
24
17
11
19
24
7
8
14
5
6
4
3
7
9
4
6
7
2
3
1
3
4
4
49
42
48
41
38
57
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Satisfied
Dis-satisfied
Overall
Age (QD1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
% Respondents
Personal vehicle
Walk
Bike, scooter
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
90
96
90
90
91
89
95
89
97
48
41
44
22
12
11
32
19
16
15
24
29
7
1
4
16
19
5
5
13
7
4
1
3
0
9
3
4
5
8
41
54
43
53
58
66
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Full-time
Part-time
Retired
Between jobs
Other
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Employment Status (QD9)
Ethnicity (QD12)
% Respondents
Personal vehicle
Walk
Bike, scooter
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
376 of 575

--- page 377 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 31
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 12   A growing population will naturally lead to greater traffic congestion in the future
unless improvements are made to the City's transportation system and we find ways to reduce
the number of trips people make by driving in a typical day. As I read the following list of actions
that could be used to help reduce traffic congestion, please indicate whether you think the City
should make it a high priority, a medium priority, or a low priority for the City's future. If you
don't think the City should take the action, just say so. Please keep in mind that not all actions
can be a high priority.
FIGURE 18  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC
Tables 17-20 show the percentage of respondents within each subgroup that identified an action
as a high priority for the City’s future. To ease comparisons, the three top-rated actions within
each subgroup are highlighted in green. Most respondent subgroups rated the same three
actions as the highest priorities—improving sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, and
infrastructure to encourage more walking, improving safe routes to school to encourage more
kids to walk and bike to school, and improving bus and shuttle services with more routes and
more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas.
52.4
55.7
33.4
27.0
28.0
16.0
14.9
18.6
12.8
31.8
27.9
37.9
36.7
34.7
41.3
34.5
26.0
26.7
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike
to school
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, infrastructure to
encourage more walking
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent service
within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to
encourage more bicycling
Increase programs that encourage carpooling, vanpooling, and
ridesharing
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public use
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
% Respondents
High priority
Medium priority
377 of 575

--- page 378 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 32
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 17  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & GENDER (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
TABLE 18  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY AGE (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Male
Female
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
58.9
55.9
55.2
54.5
52.5
60.7
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
53.1
51.4
48.2
53.4
49.3
55.9
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
36.2
30.4
29.4
34.0
29.8
39.2
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
38.7
24.5
26.6
24.7
31.6
25.2
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
31.5
27.8
20.4
26.3
28.6
25.9
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
19.9
18.1
24.5
17.0
21.6
15.6
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
16.5
12.7
10.6
17.9
17.0
16.2
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
15.4
11.0
17.3
15.3
15.5
15.1
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
17.7
3.4
9.6
14.0
12.7
13.5
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Gender (QD2)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
50.7
49.6
60.0
64.7
53.7
56.9
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
63.9
51.1
51.8
62.2
46.2
46.4
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
55.2
32.1
28.7
29.5
34.5
32.0
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
33.2
34.7
23.8
34.1
25.9
20.8
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
41.7
33.5
24.7
23.6
22.2
19.4
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
19.8
19.3
20.4
16.0
20.4
14.7
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
24.1
12.4
13.3
14.1
15.7
21.4
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
21.9
16.0
16.8
18.0
11.1
9.3
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
35.4
9.8
10.6
7.3
11.0
13.0
Age (QD1)
378 of 575

--- page 379 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 33
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 19  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY CHILD IN HSLD, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & SURVEY LANGUAGE 
(SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
TABLE 20  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION TRADE-OFFS   As with most aspects of planning, improve-
ments in one area may require trade-offs in other areas. Adding bike lanes and widening side-
walks will make it easier to travel around the City without using a car and could help reduce
traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. However, adding bike lanes and widening
sidewalks could also require removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations.
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
55.6
55.4
56.6
53.2
57.8
54.7
70.5
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
60.7
57.7
49.5
48.6
54.6
51.4
67.3
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
28.6
21.3
36.0
35.2
33.0
32.8
42.4
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
24.9
25.5
29.9
21.8
31.4
27.7
32.3
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
20.2
17.5
30.1
21.9
29.5
26.9
28.3
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
16.5
18.7
19.1
14.0
20.3
18.7
16.9
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
12.1
11.6
17.9
20.5
14.5
16.2
14.2
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
17.7
22.4
14.0
12.5
16.6
14.3
23.0
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
11.8
7.1
13.3
13.5
12.3
12.8
12.5
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
56.2
50.3
55.8
70.3
55.1
58.3
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
52.0
48.9
55.7
51.3
53.6
52.6
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
31.6
27.8
39.7
40.4
30.1
37.3
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
28.4
23.9
30.7
32.2
26.0
31.1
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
27.4
18.5
29.3
40.2
20.8
33.1
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
13.7
20.4
20.6
39.7
18.1
19.2
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
14.9
14.1
17.6
26.0
16.3
15.5
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
14.7
9.3
16.9
31.4
13.1
16.8
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
11.4
13.0
13.7
21.4
12.3
13.3
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
379 of 575

--- page 380 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 34
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When presented with the aforementioned trade-off, 64% of respondents indicated they generally
support adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires removing a
vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations. Approximately one-third of respondents
(34%) opposed adding bike lanes or widening sidewalks if it involved this type of trade-off, while
2% were unsure or preferred to not answer the question (Figure 19).
Question 13   Adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks will make it easier to travel around the
City without using a car and could help reduce traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions.
However, adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks could also require removing a vehicle lane or
parking spaces in certain locations. Knowing this, do you generally support or oppose adding
bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo? 
FIGURE 19  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO
Figures 20-24 show how support for adding bike
lanes and widening sidewalks even if it involves
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain
locations varied across subgroups of San Mateo resi-
dents. Newer residents (less than 5 years), younger
residents (under 25), those not living with a child,
those in ‘other’ employment categories (homemaker/
student), and those who use public transit and/or a
bicycle/scooter to travel within the City on a weekly
basis were the most supportive of adding bike lanes
and widening sidewalks. That said, a majority of
respondents in every subgroup expressed support for
adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks, even if it
involved the stated trade-offs.
FIGURE 20  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & AGE
Prefer not to 
answer
2.0
Strongly 
oppose
17.4
Somewhat 
oppose
16.5
Strongly 
support
29.6
Somewhat 
support
34.5
25.6
33.4
25.1
19.6
36.8
34.8
32.1
36.6
28.3
43.4
21.9
17.4
10.1
17.7
15.6
25.2
20.6
6.9
14.4
12.1
23.9
13.2
16.4
21.1
12.8
20.4
14.5
38.5
42.8
34.5
22.2
24.1
38.7
34.4
32.7
43.1
34.2
14.1
11.5
13.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Age (QD1)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
380 of 575

--- page 381 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 35
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 21  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY CHILD IN HSLD & ANTICIPATED 
YEARS IN SAN MATEO
FIGURE 22  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP 
STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
FIGURE 23  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS & WORK 
COMMUTE STATUS
25.1
37.5
35.9
31.2
15.0
14.9
17.5
19.6
21.6
23.0
14.3
16.8
10.9
15.8
21.1
30.7
30.4
31.9
23.1
26.0
34.8
37.9
36.9
37.1
31.4
19.1
15.1
14.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Less than 5
5 to 10
11 to 15
16 or more
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
29.0
37.9
34.8
34.9
35.5
20.4
17.2
9.6
14.5
15.8
26.2
14.0
17.3
15.5
29.5
18.1
15.6
17.7
13.0
33.8
35.1
31.3
25.9
30.0
26.5
37.2
34.3
25.8
36.6
17.4
18.3
17.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
22.9
33.4
30.5
30.1
38.6
36.6
19.7
17.4
14.7
16.3
15.6
17.5
10.8
15.8
18.4
11.5
14.3
21.4
14.4
44.7
31.7
25.3
20.9
39.8
38.8
34.5
21.7
37.8
43.5
17.2
13.3
15.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Full-time
Part-time
Retired
Between jobs
Other
Working from
home
Commuting
outside home
Mixture of both
Employment Status (QD9)
Work Commute Status (QD10)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
381 of 575

--- page 382 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 36
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 24  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY TRAVELING WITHIN CITY AT LEAST 
1X PER WEEK & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
33.7
32.2
36.8
34.9
14.6
13.2
20.8
14.3
19.3
1.8
25.1
14.0
8.8
18.3
15.7
52.9
28.0
49.8
28.0
39.6
21.1
34.3
31.2
27.9
30.2
15.8
5.6
16.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Personal vehicle
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
Walk
Bike, scooter
Yes
No
Travel Within City at Least 1x Per Week (Q11)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
382 of 575

--- page 383 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 37
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O M M U N I C A T I O N S
The importance of city communication with residents cannot be over-stated. Much of a city’s suc-
cess is shaped by the quality of information that is exchanged in both directions, from the City
to the community and from the community to the City. This study is just one example of San
Mateo’ efforts to enhance the information flow to the City to better understand the community’s
concerns, perceptions, and needs. Some of San Mateo’ many efforts to communicate with its res-
idents include its newsletters, timely press releases, social media, and its website. In this sec-
tion, we present the results of several communication-related questions.
OVERALL SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION   Question 14 asked San Mateo
residents to report their satisfaction with city-resident communication. Overall, 62% of respon-
dents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communicate with residents through
newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means in 2022. The remaining respondents
were either dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this respect (25%) or unsure of their opinion
(13%). When compared to 2020, there was a statistically significant decline in resident satisfac-
tion with the City’s communication efforts.
Question 14   Overall, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the City's efforts to communicate
with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means?
FIGURE 25  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
The next three figures display how satisfaction with the City’s efforts to communicate with resi-
dents varied by length of residence, presence and age(s) of children in the home, presence of an
adult 65 years and older in the household, age of the respondent, gender, ethnicity, satisfaction
with the City’s overall performance in providing services, home ownership status, and survey
language. As is often the case, residents dissatisfied with the City’s overall performance were
also the least satisfied with the City’s communication efforts, whereas those generally satisfied
with the City were the among the most satisfied with city-resident communication.
48.7
14.3
10.2
21.3
18.3
44.1†
16.8
7.9†
5.0
12.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
Study Year
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Not sure 
Very dissatisfied
Somewhat
dissatisfied
Somewhat
satisfied
Very satisfied
383 of 575

--- page 384 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 38
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 26  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN 
HSLD
FIGURE 27  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 28  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY ETHNICITY, OVERALL SATISFACTION, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE
15.7
17.8
20.0
17.7
19.0
46.8
35.8
43.5
50.0
42.0
16.2
21.3
23.9
Very
satisfied
18.2
34.2
48.7
46.8
Smwt
satisfied
42.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents
18.5
18.9
17.3
20.9
35.2
53.2
40.5
48.3
Very
satisfied
25.2
18.4
16.7
17.2
Smwt
satisfied
56.4
50.2
41.8
35.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
% Respondents
22.2
4.0
17.3
20.3
17.7
27.4
48.5
30.9
48.4
40.0
44.5
38.7
Very
satisfied
16.5
14.7
23.5
19.8
Smwt
satisfied
45.3
29.4
42.0
48.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Home Ownership Status
(QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents
384 of 575

--- page 385 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 39
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TOPICS OF INTEREST   All respondents were next asked if there was a particular topic or
issue about which they’d like to receive more information from the City (Question 15) and—if
yes—to describe the topic (Question 16). As shown in figures 29-32, 30% of respondents indi-
cated the were interested in receiving more information from the City, with those expressing dis-
satisfaction with the City’s communication efforts and overall performance in providing
municipal services being the most likely to desire more information from the City.
Question 15   Is there a particular topic or issue that you'd like to receive more information
about from the City?
FIGURE 29  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY
FIGURE 30  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & 
ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
Do not desire 
additional info
62.3
Yes, desire 
additional info
30.2
Prefer not to 
answer
7.6
29.3
31.8
29.9
29.7
29.6
30.6
19.3
35.1
31.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
385 of 575

--- page 386 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 40
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 31  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 32  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY ETHNICITY, OVERALL SATISFACTION, HOME 
OWNERSHIP STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
As for the specific topics of interest to those seeking more information from the City (see Figure
33), the most commonly mentioned were information about the City’s future commercial and
residential development plans (31%), affordable housing (13%), street/road and infrastructure
maintenance (13%), environmental issues (8%), public transportation (7%), public safety/crime
statistics (7%), and recreation programs (7%).
30.1
27.9
30.3
30.8
23.2
52.2
16.0
33.3
29.5
34.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q14)
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
27.0
43.8
32.0
28.2
31.1
17.5
39.2
29.8
31.2
27.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Home Ownership Status
(QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
386 of 575

--- page 387 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 41
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 16   Please briefly describe the topic.
FIGURE 33  INFORMATION TOPICS DESIRED
SOURCES OF INFORMATION   To help the City identify the most effective means of com-
municating with residents, it is helpful to understand what information sources they currently
rely on for this type of information. Question 17 asked respondents to identify the top three
information sources they typically use to find out about City of San Mateo news, events, and pro-
grams. Because respondents were allowed to provide up to three sources, the percentages
shown in Figure 34 on the next page represent the percentage of residents who mentioned a
particular source and thus sum to more than 100.
The most frequently cited sources for City information in 2022 were the San Mateo Daily Journal
and email notifications from the City, both mentioned by 30% of respondents. These sources
were followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed to the home from the City (24%),
Nextdoor (23%), the Internet not including the City’s site (18%), the City’s website (15%), and
friends/family/associates/word of mouth (15%). When compared to the 2020 survey results, the
percentage who cited the San Mateo Daily Journal, letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed
to the home by the City, and street banners/signs declined significantly, whereas mentions of
the San Francisco Chronicle and television increased significantly. Figures 35-37 present the
information source categories by a number of key demographic traits. For ease of interpretation,
the bars representing city-sponsored sources are displayed in shades of green, and non-city
sources in shades of orange.
30.9
12.9
12.6
8.3
7.1
6.8
6.5
4.3
4.0
3.9
3.8
2.9
2.5
2.4
2.0
1.6
3.1
3.9
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Commercial, residential development, plans
Affordable housing
Streets, roads, infrastructure maintenance 
Environmental issues
Public transportation
Public safety, crime stats
Recreational programs
Traffic issues, updates
Community events
City planning, vision
Parking issues, enforcement
Schools, education
COVID-19 mandates, tests, vaccines
Local economy, businesses
Noise control
Homelessness
Senior assistance
City budgeting, finances
% Respondents Who Desire More Info
387 of 575

--- page 388 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 42
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 17   What information sources do you use to find out about City of San Mateo news,
events, and programs?
FIGURE 34  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
FIGURE 35  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY OVERALL, AGE & SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION
29.6
22.9
17.8
15.2
14.5
11.7
4.9
4.3
4.2
4.2
4.0
3.8
3.7
3.1
2.9
2.0
1.7
1.3
0.4
37.1
30.6
31.1
26.2
16.4
15.2
15.7
9.5
10.9
4.5
14.3
2.6
2.7
4.2
2.9
5.9
2.7
6.2
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.5
0.0
11.4†
12.4†
7.7†
23.7†
30.1†
0
10
20
30
40
San Mateo Daily Journal (daily newspaper)
Email notifications from City
Letters, postcards, flyers or brochures mailed from City
Nextdoor.com
Internet (not City’s site)
City Website
Friends/Family/Associates/word of mouth
San Francisco Chronicle (daily newspaper)
Facebook
Television (general)
Street banners or message signs
Instagram
Twitter
Mercury News (daily newspaper)
Do Not Receive Information about City
HOA or neighborhood association
Other sources
Daily Post (daily newspaper)
Radio
Other newspaper
Other social media site
Not sure
City Council Meetings
Blogs
% Respondents
2022
2020
42
26
29
31
44
53
61
41
48
41
20
48
39
43
30
46
47
39
35
42
40
24
2
27
29
27
25
25
27
20
22
20
20
22
21
20
28
20
24
18
25
14
18
19
17
21
18
17
14
15
10
13
7
15
23
16
13
8
5
9
9
8
8
6
9
4
1
0
2
1
1
2
2
1
1
6
5
10
7
3
4
2
3
8
52
36
45
43
45
34
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Overall
Age (QD1)
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q14)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
388 of 575

--- page 389 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 43
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 36  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY ETHNICITY, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
FIGURE 37  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, OVERALL SATISFACTION & SURVEY 
LANGUAGE
COMMUNICATION PREFERENCES   The final substantive question of the survey pre-
sented residents with the methods shown to the left of Figure 38 and asked whether each would
be an effective way for the City to communicate with them. Overall, respondents indicated that
email was the most effective method (84% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards,
letters, and newsletters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 78%), social media like Facebook,
Twitter, and Nextdoor (78%), and the City’s website (72%). Townhall meetings (52%), television
programs (41%), and advertisements in local papers (40%) were generally viewed by residents as
less effective ways for the City to communicate with them. When compared to 2020, the per-
ceived effectiveness of email declined by a small, but statistically significant 4% (see Table 21).
48
38
36
39
33
22
44
55
35
42
40
42
39
33
45
30
51
51
33
36
40
27
26
13
39
27
31
23
22
25
20
28
17
28
22
25
21
23
21
17
18
19
18
19
12
18
20
17
10
19
20
1
13
17
15
24
10
9
8
6
8
8
10
8
5
9
1
1
2
0
1
0
2
2
1
8
3
6
7
4
8
7
5
6
39
51
39
38
42
44
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Yes, under
18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Ethnicity (QD12)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld
(QD5)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
28
32
34
53
42
42
51
42
32
42
50
43
27
43
42
43
39
39
37
39
42
31
30
21
20
25
25
18
25
7
19
16
27
24
22
22
20
23
6
20
20
23
16
17
17
18
18
12
10
11
7
18
15
15
14
13
28
11
7
12
6
8
8
8
8
5
0
0
1
2
1
1
2
1
0
9
3
3
6
5
5
8
5
12
38
39
30
41
40
43
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Less than 1
1 to 4
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or more
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
English
Spanish
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Survey Language
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
389 of 575

--- page 390 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 44
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 18   As I read the following ways that the City of San Mateo can communicate with res-
idents, I'd like to know if you think they would be very effective, somewhat effective, or not an
effective way for the City to communicate with you.
FIGURE 38  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS
TABLE 21  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
Tables 22-24 show how the percentage of residents that rated each communication method as
very effective varied depending on their age, ethnicity, satisfaction with the City’s overall efforts
to provide municipal services, presence and age(s) of children in the home, satisfaction with city-
resident communication, and survey language.
TABLE 22  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY AGE (SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
50.1
38.8
38.0
26.6
10.5
11.4
8.9
33.6
39.3
39.8
45.8
41.3
29.2
31.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Email
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
City’s Website
Townhall meetings
Television programs
Advertisements in local papers
% Respondents
Very effective
Somewhat effective
2022
2020
City’s Website
72.4
69.3
+3.1
Townhall meetings
51.9
49.3
+2.6
Television programs
40.7
39.6
+1.1
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
77.8
76.8
+1.1
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
78.0
78.7
-0.7
Advertisements in local papers
40.3
43.4
-3.1
Email
83.7
87.9
-4.1†
Change in
Very + Smwt
Effective
2020 to 2022
Study Year
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Email
44.6
45.5
54.6
52.5
55.1
51.5
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
46.2
37.0
42.7
33.3
42.4
37.1
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
62.5
43.0
39.6
41.9
35.4
20.6
City’s Website
33.5
26.7
22.7
33.5
28.1
21.0
Television programs
12.5
6.9
10.5
11.9
12.7
13.2
Townhall meetings
17.7
6.6
10.2
7.9
10.6
12.3
Advertisements in local papers
17.9
6.4
7.1
5.4
9.7
9.2
Age (QD1)
390 of 575

--- page 391 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 45
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 23  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY ETHNICITY & OVERALL SATISFACTION (SHOWING % VERY 
EFFECTIVE)
TABLE 24  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY CHILD IN HSLD, SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE (SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Email
54.4
49.5
46.4
45.6
49.3
49.8
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
40.5
30.6
40.3
42.2
40.4
38.5
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
38.9
33.4
42.9
30.7
27.1
43.1
City’s Website
24.2
24.0
30.0
30.4
25.3
27.8
Television programs
9.5
14.8
9.2
12.8
14.7
9.1
Townhall meetings
12.3
2.7
11.9
15.0
12.7
9.4
Advertisements in local papers
6.6
7.1
11.9
10.9
11.7
7.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
English
Spanish
Email
52.8
48.7
48.5
52.3
48.6
50.1
50.8
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
39.5
42.7
38.7
41.7
36.6
38.6
41.0
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
45.0
43.0
35.4
42.1
35.6
37.9
39.8
City’s Website
25.6
19.5
27.6
30.3
21.7
26.0
34.4
Television programs
10.6
13.0
11.3
11.6
12.8
11.6
9.7
Townhall meetings
7.6
9.4
11.9
10.3
12.3
10.5
10.6
Advertisements in local papers
7.2
6.0
9.3
9.5
8.8
8.7
12.3
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Satisfaction With 
Communication (Q14)
Survey Language
391 of 575

--- page 392 ---
Background & Demographics
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 46
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B A C K G R O U N D  &  D E M O G R A P H I C S
TABLE 25  DEMOGRAPHICS OF SAMPLE BY STUDY YEAR
Table 25 presents the key demographic information
collected during the survey. In additional to providing
insights into how the results of the survey vary across
demographic subgroups, the information is also used
to ensure that the survey sample matches the profile
of San Mateo’s adult population on key characteristics
based on the latest Census figures.
2022
2020
Total Respondents
775
1,276
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Less than 1
5.7
5.8
1 to 4
16.7
18.5
5 to 9
14.8
12.8
10 to 14
10.8
10.1
15 or more
51.9
52.4
Prefer not to answer
0.1
0.4
Age (QD1)
18 to 24
8.6
9.0
25 to 34
23.4
20.5
35 to 44
17.8
21.0
45 to 54
15.2
16.8
55 to 64
13.7
12.8
65 or older
16.8
15.7
Prefer not to answer
4.3
4.2
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Yes, under 18
28.6
34.3
Yes, under 6
11.8
16.5
None
67.1
60.5
Prefer not to answer
4.4
5.2
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
Yes
29.2
32.1
No
66.2
63.0
Prefer not to answer
4.6
4.9
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Own
49.5
56.7
Rent
45.8
40.1
Prefer not to answer
4.7
3.2
Home Type (QD7)
Single family
51.8
60.1
Townhome
7.5
8.4
Condo
10.9
9.6
Apartment
26.0
18.5
Prefer not to answer
3.9
3.3
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
Less than 5
20.5
20.0
5 to 10
29.6
25.2
11 to 15
9.2
10.5
16 or more
32.1
33.7
Prefer not to answer
8.6
10.5
Employment Status (QD9)
Full-time
61.4
63.4
Part-time
5.8
5.3
Student
5.3
5.4
Homemaker
1.1
2.5
Retired
18.0
15.6
Between jobs
3.8
2.2
Prefer not to answer
4.6
5.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Caucasian / White
39.2
39.8
Asian American
21.6
18.3
Latino / Hispanic
27.4
23.5
Mixed or other
7.3
10.4
Prefer not to answer
4.5
8.0
Gender
Male
47.8
45.2
Female
46.1
50.5
Not listed
0.2
0.6
Prefer not to answer
5.9
3.7
Study Year
392 of 575

--- page 393 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 47
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
M E T H O D O L O G Y
The following sections outline the methodology used in the study, as well as the motivation for
using certain techniques.
QUESTIONNAIRE DEVELOPMENT   Dr. McLarney of True North Research worked closely
with the City of San Mateo to develop a questionnaire that covered the topics of interest and
avoided many possible sources of systematic measurement error, including position-order
effects, wording effects, response-category effects, scaling effects, and priming. Several ques-
tions included multiple individual items. Because asking items in a set order can lead to a sys-
tematic position bias in responses, the items were asked in a random order for each respondent.
Some questions asked in this study were presented only to a subset of respondents. For exam-
ple, only respondents who indicated they were interested in additional information from the City
(Question 15) were subsequently asked to briefly describe their topics of interest (Question 16).
The questionnaire included with this report (see Questionnaire & Toplines on page 50) identifies
the skip patterns used during the interview to ensure that each respondent received the appro-
priate questions.
PROGRAMMING, PRE-TEST & TRANSLATION   Prior to fielding the survey, the ques-
tionnaire was CATI (Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing) programmed to assist interview-
ers when conducting the telephone interviews. The CATI program automatically navigates the
skip patterns, randomizes the appropriate question items, and alerts interviewers to certain
types of keypunching mistakes should they happen during the interview. The survey was also
programmed into a passcode-protected online survey application to allow online participation
for sampled households. The integrity of the questionnaire was pre-tested internally by True
North and by dialing into random homes in the City prior to formally beginning the survey. The
final questionnaire was also professionally translated into Spanish to allow for data collection in
English and Spanish according to the preference of the respondent.
SAMPLE, RECRUITING & DATA COLLECTION   A comprehensive database of house-
holds in the City of San Mateo was utilized for this study, ensuring that all households in San
Mateo had the opportunity to be selected for the survey. After random selection, households
were recruited to participate in the survey using a combination of mailed letters, email invita-
tions, text invitations, and telephone calls to both land lines and mobile lines, as appropriate.
The mail, email, and text invitations contained a unique passcode so that only those invited
could access the secure survey site, and they could complete the survey one-time only. Following
a period of online data collection, True North recruited by telephone to households that had yet
to participate in the online survey in response to the mail, email, and/or text invitations, or for
which only telephone contact information was available.
Telephone interviews averaged 18 minutes in length and were conducted during weekday eve-
nings (5:30PM to 9PM) and on weekends (10AM to 5PM). It is standard practice not to call during
the day on weekdays because most working adults are unavailable and thus calling during those
hours would bias the sample. A total of 775 completed surveys were gathered online and by tele-
phone between January 21 and February 2, 2022.
393 of 575

--- page 394 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 48
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MARGIN OF ERROR DUE TO SAMPLING   The results of the survey can be used to esti-
mate the opinions of all adult residents of the City. Because not every adult resident of the City
participated in the survey, however, the results have what is known as a statistical margin of
error due to sampling. The margin of error refers to the difference between what was found in
the survey of 775 adult residents for a particular question and what would have been found if all
of the estimated 83,578 adult residents3 had been interviewed.
Figure 39 provides a plot of the maximum margin of error in this study. The maximum margin of
error for a dichotomous percentage result occurs when the answers are evenly split such that
50% provide one response and 50% provide the alternative response. For this survey, the maxi-
mum margin of error is ± 3.5% for questions answered by all 775 respondents.
FIGURE 39  MAXIMUM MARGIN OF ERROR
Within this report, figures and tables show how responses to certain questions varied by demo-
graphic characteristics such as length of residence and age of the respondent. Figure 39 is thus
useful for understanding how the maximum margin of error for a percentage estimate will grow
as the number of individuals asked a question (or in a particular subgroup) shrinks. Because the
margin of error grows exponentially as the sample size decreases, the reader should use caution
when generalizing and interpreting the results for small subgroups.
DATA PROCESSING & WEIGHTING   Data processing consisted of checking the data for
errors or inconsistencies, coding and recoding responses, categorizing verbatim responses, and
preparing frequency analyses and cross-tabulations. The final data were weighted to balance the
sample by age and ethnicity according to Census estimates.
3. US Census Bureau estimate, April 2020.
775 Respondents
 ± 3.5%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600
Sample Size (Number of Respondents)
Margin of Error
394 of 575

--- page 395 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 49
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ROUNDING    Numbers that end in 0.5 or higher are rounded up to the nearest whole num-
ber, whereas numbers that end in 0.4 or lower are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
These same rounding rules are also applied, when needed, to arrive at numbers that include a
decimal place in constructing figures and tables. Occasionally, these rounding rules lead to small
discrepancies in the first decimal place when comparing tables and charts for a given question.
Due to rounding, some figures and narrative include numbers that add to more than or less than
100%.
395 of 575

--- page 396 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 50
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Q U E S T I O N N A I R E  &  T O P L I N E S
      
 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 1 
City of San Mateo  Community Opinion Survey 
Phone Version  
Final Toplines (n=775) 
February 2022 
Section 1: Introduction to Study 
Hi, may I please speak to: _____. Hi, my name is _____ and Im calling from TNR, an 
independent public opinion research company. Were conducting a survey for the City of San 
Mateo (Muh-TAY-O) about important issues and we would like to get your opinions. 
If needed: This is a survey about important issues in your community. Im NOT trying to sell 
anything and I wont ask for a donation. 
If needed: The survey should take about 12 minutes to complete. 
If needed: If now is not a convenient time, can you let me know a better time so I can call 
back? 
 
Section 2: Quality of Life 
Id like to begin by asking you a few questions about what it is like to live in the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q1 
How long have you lived in the City of San Mateo? 
 
1 
Less than 1 year 
6% 
 
2 
1 to 4 years 
17% 
 
3 
5 to 9 years 
15% 
 
4 
10 to 14 years 
11% 
 
5 
15 years or longer 
52% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
0% 
Q2 
How would you rate: _____? Would you say it is excellent, good, fair, poor or very poor? 
 
Always ask A first, then randomize 
remaining items 
Excellent 
Good 
Fair 
Poor 
Very Poor 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
The overall quality of life in the City of San 
Mateo 
24% 
61% 
11% 
3% 
1% 
0% 
0% 
B 
San Mateo as a place to raise a family 
26% 
42% 
17% 
3% 
3% 
7% 
2% 
C 
San Mateo as a place to work 
18% 
44% 
16% 
3% 
1% 
16% 
2% 
D 
San Mateo as a place to retire 
10% 
27% 
23% 
18% 
10% 
12% 
1% 
E 
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine 
26% 
51% 
18% 
3% 
1% 
0% 
0% 
F 
San Mateo as a place to recreate 
18% 
41% 
28% 
5% 
3% 
5% 
1% 
396 of 575

--- page 397 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 51
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 2 
 
Q3 
What do you like most about the City of San Mateo that should be preserved in the 
future? Verbatim responses recorded and later grouped into categories shown below. 
 
Parks, recreation facilities, opportunities 
24% 
 
Shopping, dining opportunities 
16% 
 
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific 
13% 
 
Proximity to surrounding cities, areas 
12% 
 
Open, green space, mountains 
12% 
 
Diversity of businesses, cultures, activities 
9% 
 
Small town atmosphere 
8% 
 
Low crime, public safety 
7% 
 
Downtown area 
7% 
 
Friendly people, neighbors 
6% 
 
Weather, clean air 
5% 
 
Good schools 
4% 
 
Clean, well-maintained 
3% 
 
Sense of community 
3% 
 
Access to bay, ocean 
3% 
 
Access to public transportation 
3% 
 
Affordable houses 
2% 
 
Historical places 
2% 
 
Outdoor activities 
2% 
 
Less crowded, traffic than other cities 
2% 
 
Family friendly 
2% 
 
Availability of parking 
2% 
Q4 
If the city government could change one thing to make San Mateo a better place to live 
now and in the future, what change would you like to see? Verbatim responses recorded 
and later grouped into categories shown below. 
 
Provide more affordable housing 
19% 
 
Limit growth, preserve open space 
13% 
 
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific 
10% 
 
Improve public safety, more police presence 
8% 
 
Improve, maintain infrastructure, streets, 
roads 
7% 
 
Provide more shopping, dining 
opportunities 
6% 
 
Reduce traffic congestion 
6% 
 
Reduce cost of living 
5% 
 
Address parking issues 
5% 
397 of 575

--- page 398 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 52
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 3 
 
Reduce taxes, fees 
4% 
 
Beautify, clean up City 
4% 
 
No changes needed / Everything is fine 
4% 
 
Add, improve bike lanes 
3% 
 
Improve, add parks, rec facilities 
3% 
 
Reduce building permit restrictions 
3% 
 
Enforce traffic laws 
3% 
 
Improve public transit 
3% 
 
Improve economy, jobs 
3% 
 
Provide more activities, events for all ages 
3% 
 
Improve schools, education 
2% 
 
Address homeless issues 
2% 
 
Improve City Council, gov process 
2% 
 
Improve downtown area 
2% 
 
Improve environmental efforts 
2% 
 
Section 3: City Services 
Next, I would like to ask a series of questions about services provided by the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q5 
Generally speaking, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San Mateo is 
doing to provide city services? Get answer, then ask: Would that be very 
(satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat (satisfied/dissatisfied)?  
 
1 
Very satisfied 
25% 
 
2 
Somewhat satisfied 
49% 
 
3 
Somewhat dissatisfied 
11% 
 
4 
Very dissatisfied 
5% 
 
98 
Not sure 
10% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
398 of 575

--- page 399 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 53
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 4 
 
Q6 
For each of the services I read next, I’d like you to tell me how satisfied you are with 
the job the city is doing to provide the service. Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the 
city’s efforts to: _____, or do you not have an opinion? Get answer. If ‘satisfied’ or 
‘dissatisfied’, then ask: Would that be very (satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat 
(satisfied/dissatisfied)? 
 
Randomize 
Very 
Satisfied 
Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Very 
Dissatisfied 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Provide police and crime prevention 
services 
26% 
43% 
13% 
8% 
11% 
1% 
B 
Promote economic development to attract 
new businesses and good-paying jobs to 
the community 
12% 
36% 
17% 
7% 
25% 
3% 
C 
Prepare the city for emergencies and 
natural disasters 
14% 
37% 
13% 
3% 
31% 
1% 
D 
Provide fire protection, prevention and 
emergency medical services 
39% 
41% 
4% 
2% 
14% 
1% 
E 
Manage traffic congestion 
10% 
35% 
30% 
19% 
7% 
0% 
F 
Address homelessness 
8% 
25% 
25% 
20% 
20% 
2% 
G 
Maintain public buildings and facilities like 
City Hall, libraries and parking garages 
36% 
48% 
6% 
2% 
9% 
0% 
H 
Maintain local streets and roads 
13% 
39% 
26% 
19% 
3% 
0% 
I 
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks 
19% 
47% 
15% 
7% 
12% 
1% 
J 
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation 
facilities 
38% 
46% 
9% 
4% 
3% 
0% 
K 
Provide a variety of recreation programs for 
all ages 
27% 
37% 
12% 
3% 
19% 
1% 
L 
Provide special events like community 
festivals and holiday celebrations 
19% 
43% 
16% 
6% 
15% 
2% 
M 
Enforce code violations to address issues 
like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted 
construction, and yards not being properly 
maintained 
15% 
34% 
14% 
12% 
23% 
2% 
N 
Protect the environment 
17% 
43% 
13% 
7% 
19% 
1% 
O 
Provide paths and trails for walking, 
jogging, and running 
29% 
49% 
13% 
5% 
4% 
0% 
P 
Provide bicycle lanes and paths 
20% 
41% 
18% 
9% 
9% 
2% 
Q 
Cleaning up litter and trash that people 
dump along streets, sidewalks and in public 
areas 
21% 
39% 
23% 
14% 
3% 
0% 
R 
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing 
7% 
0% 
19% 
23% 
31% 
17% 
 
399 of 575

--- page 400 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 54
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 5 
 
Section 4: Housing & Land Use 
Next, I would like to ask a few questions about the availability of housing in the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q7 
As I read the following housing types, please tell me whether you feel there is currently 
too much, about the right amount, or too little of this type of housing in the City of San 
Mateo. 
 
Randomize 
Too Much 
About 
Right 
Too Little  
Not sure 
Prefer not 
to answer 
A 
Housing that is affordable for middle-
income families 
4% 
20% 
66% 
9% 
0% 
B 
Housing that is affordable for low-income 
families 
8% 
12% 
64% 
16% 
1% 
Q8 
California State law requires that all cities plan for additional housing. With a general 
shortage of housing in California, the state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan 
for thousands of new housing units. 
 
There are a variety of factors the City can consider when deciding where new housing 
may be located and the types of housing that may be built. As I read the following list of 
items, Id like to know how important you feel the item should be as the City plans for 
future housing over the next 20 years. Please keep in mind that not all of the items can 
be extremely important. 
 
Here is the (first/next) item: ______. Should this City make this an extremely important, 
very important, somewhat important, or not important factor when planning future 
housing? 
 
Randomize 
Extremely 
Important 
Very 
Important 
Somewhat 
Important 
Not 
Important 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Creating homes that are affordable for low- 
and middle-income residents 
45% 
29% 
17% 
8% 
1% 
0% 
B 
Preserving open space and creating new 
park lands 
43% 
35% 
19% 
2% 
1% 
0% 
C 
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic 
congestion 
34% 
41% 
19% 
4% 
1% 
0% 
D 
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces 
28% 
37% 
26% 
7% 
1% 
0% 
E 
Locating additional shops and restaurants 
near new housing units 
17% 
31% 
37% 
13% 
2% 
0% 
F 
Creating commercial zones that will attract 
high-paying jobs 
13% 
33% 
35% 
16% 
2% 
0% 
G 
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that 
encourage people to walk rather than drive 
40% 
35% 
18% 
5% 
1% 
0% 
H 
Improving access to transit and increasing 
transit ridership 
31% 
38% 
22% 
7% 
2% 
0% 
I 
Creating bike lanes and paths 
22% 
31% 
32% 
13% 
1% 
1% 
400 of 575

--- page 401 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 55
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 6 
 
J 
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas 
emissions 
44% 
34% 
14% 
6% 
1% 
0% 
K 
Preserving the Citys historic buildings and 
resources 
26% 
32% 
28% 
13% 
1% 
0% 
L 
Keeping building heights low 
21% 
22% 
25% 
29% 
3% 
0% 
M 
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not 
concentrated in disadvantaged areas 
28% 
31% 
24% 
11% 
5% 
1% 
N 
Producing the revenue necessary to pay for 
the cost of providing police, fire, and other 
city services to the new housing units 
29% 
43% 
20% 
4% 
3% 
1% 
O 
Ensuring adequate water supplies 
62% 
31% 
5% 
1% 
2% 
0% 
P 
Having a plan that will meet the States 
requirements for at least the next 20 years 
25% 
40% 
21% 
9% 
5% 
1% 
Q 
Avoiding new development in areas that are 
at higher risk of natural hazards, climate 
change, or sea level rise 
39% 
35% 
17% 
6% 
3% 
0% 
R 
Minimizing the number of new units added 
to single-family neighborhoods 
24% 
21% 
23% 
27% 
5% 
0% 
Q9 
Concentrating new housing in taller, higher-density buildings downtown and near 
transit would allow more land to be reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community 
amenities, and will minimize change to existing residential neighborhoods. Knowing 
this, would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density 
buildings up to 12 stories. Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly 
(support/oppose) or somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
33% 
Skip to Q11 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
30% 
Ask Q10 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
14% 
Ask Q10 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
21% 
Ask Q10 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
Ask Q10 
Q10 
Would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density buildings 
up to 8 stories. Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly (support/oppose) or 
somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
16% 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
36% 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
20% 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
27% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
 
401 of 575

--- page 402 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 56
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 7 
 
Section 5: Mobility 
Q11 When traveling within the City of San Mateo, how often do you: _____? Read options if 
needed: Five or more days per week, 1 to 4 days per week,. 
 
Read in Order 
5+ days per 
week 
1 to 4 days per 
week 
2 to 3 days per 
month 
1 day per 
month 
Less than 1 
day per month 
Never 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Use a personal vehicle 
52% 
35% 
8% 
1% 
1% 
3% 
0% 
B 
Use public transit such as a bus or train 
3% 
4% 
5% 
7% 
22% 
58% 
1% 
C 
Use Uber, Lyft or taxi 
1% 
3% 
12% 
8% 
33% 
42% 
1% 
D 
Walk from your home to a local store or 
restaurant 
16% 
29% 
19% 
9% 
11% 
15% 
1% 
E 
Ride a bicycle or a scooter 
6% 
12% 
9% 
6% 
15% 
49% 
2% 
Q12 
A growing population will naturally lead to greater traffic congestion in the future 
unless improvements are made to the Citys transportation system and we find ways to 
reduce the number of trips people make by driving in a typical day. 
 
As I read the following list of actions that could be used to help reduce traffic 
congestion, please indicate whether you think the City should make it a high priority, a 
medium priority, or a low priority for the Citys future. If you dont think the City should 
take the action, just say so. Please keep in mind that not all actions can be a high 
priority. 
 
Here is the (first/next) one: _____. Should this be a high, medium, or low priority for the 
Citys future, or should the City not take this action? 
 
Randomize 
High priority 
Medium 
priority 
Low priority 
Not a priority 
Not Sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Increase programs that encourage 
carpooling, vanpooling, and ridesharing 
16% 
41% 
24% 
15% 
4% 
0% 
B 
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes 
and shared lanes to encourage more 
bicycling 
28% 
35% 
21% 
13% 
3% 
0% 
C 
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian 
safety, signs, and infrastructure to encourage 
more walking 
56% 
28% 
11% 
4% 
2% 
0% 
D 
Improve safe routes to school to encourage 
more kids to walk and bike to school 
52% 
32% 
9% 
4% 
3% 
0% 
E 
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available 
at kiosks for public use 
15% 
35% 
28% 
18% 
4% 
0% 
F 
Improve bus and shuttle services with more 
routes and more frequent service within San 
Mateo and to neighboring areas 
33% 
38% 
15% 
8% 
5% 
0% 
G 
Provide financial incentives to encourage 
greater use of transit 
27% 
37% 
21% 
12% 
3% 
0% 
402 of 575

--- page 403 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 57
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 8 
H 
Make infrastructure improvements needed to 
support autonomous/driverless shuttles 
and vehicles 
19% 
26% 
25% 
24% 
6% 
0% 
I 
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel 
times when using transit 
13% 
27% 
26% 
28% 
6% 
1% 
Q13 
Adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks will make it easier to travel around the City 
without using a car and could help reduce traffic congestion and greenhouse gas 
emissions. However, adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks could also require 
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations. 
 
Knowing this, do you generally support or oppose adding bike lanes and widening 
sidewalks in San Mateo? Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly (support/oppose) 
or somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
30% 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
35% 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
16% 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
17% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
 
Section 6: Communications 
Q14 
Overall, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the Citys efforts to communicate with 
residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means? Get answer, 
then ask: Would that be very (satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat (satisfied/dissatisfied)? 
 
1 
Very satisfied 
18% 
 
2 
Somewhat satisfied 
44% 
 
3 
Somewhat dissatisfied 
17% 
 
4 
Very dissatisfied 
8% 
 
98 
No Opinion/Not Sure 
13% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
0% 
Q15 Is there a particular topic or issue that youd like to receive more information about 
from the City? 
 
1 
Yes 
30% 
Ask Q16 
 
2 
No 
62% 
Skip to Q17  
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
8% 
Skip to Q17 
403 of 575

--- page 404 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 58
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 9 
 
Q16 Please briefly describe the topic. Verbatim responses recorded and later grouped into 
categories shown below. 
 
Commercial, housing developments, 
density 
31% 
 
Affordable housing 
13% 
 
Streets, roads, infrastructure maintenance  
13% 
 
Environmental issues 
8% 
 
Recreational programs 
7% 
 
Public transportation 
7% 
 
Public safety, crime stats 
7% 
 
Community events 
4% 
 
Schools, education 
4% 
 
Traffic issues, updates 
4% 
 
Parking issues, enforcement 
4% 
 
City planning, vision 
4% 
 
Noise control 
3% 
 
COVID-19 mandates, tests, vaccines 
3% 
 
Local economy, businesses 
3% 
 
City budgeting, finances 
2% 
 
Senior assistance 
2% 
 
Homelessness 
2% 
Q17 What information sources do you use to find out about City of San Mateo news, events, 
and programs? Dont read list. Record up to first 3 responses. 
Newspapers 
 
1 
San Francisco Chronicle (daily 
newspaper) 
12% 
 
2 
Mercury News (daily newspaper) 
4% 
 
3 
San Mateo Daily Journal (daily 
newspaper) 
30% 
 
4 
Daily Post (daily newspaper) 
4% 
 
5 
Other newspaper 
3% 
City Sources 
 
6 
City Website 
15% 
 
7 
Email notifications from City 
30% 
 
8 
Letters, postcards, flyers or brochures 
mailed from City to your home 
24% 
 
9 
Street banners or message signs 
8% 
 
10 
City Council Meetings 
1% 
404 of 575

--- page 405 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 59
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 10 
Internet & Social Media 
 
11 
Internet (not Citys site) 
18% 
 
12 
Facebook 
12% 
 
13 
Twitter 
4% 
 
14 
Instagram 
5% 
 
15 
Other social media site 
2% 
 
16 
Nextdoor.com 
23% 
 
17 
Blogs 
0% 
Other 
 
18 
Television (general) 
11% 
 
19 
Radio 
3% 
 
20 
HOA or neighborhood association 
4% 
 
21 
Friends/Family/Associates/word of 
mouth 
14% 
 
22 
Other 
4% 
 
23 
Do Not Receive Information about City 
4% 
 
98 
Not sure 
2% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
Q18 
As I read the following ways that the City of San Mateo can communicate with residents, 
Id like to know if you think they would be very effective, somewhat effective, or not an 
effective way for the City to communicate with you. 
 
Randomize 
Very 
Effective 
Somewhat 
Effective 
Not 
Effective 
Not Sure 
Prefer not 
to answer 
A 
Email 
50% 
34% 
11% 
4% 
1% 
B 
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to 
your home 
39% 
39% 
18% 
3% 
1% 
C 
Citys Website 
27% 
46% 
19% 
8% 
1% 
D 
Advertisements in local papers 
9% 
31% 
48% 
10% 
1% 
E 
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and 
Next Door 
38% 
40% 
13% 
7% 
1% 
F 
Townhall meetings 
11% 
41% 
36% 
10% 
1% 
G 
Television programs  
11% 
29% 
48% 
10% 
1% 
 
405 of 575

--- page 406 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 60
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 11 
 
Section 7: Background & Demographics 
Thank you so much for your participation. I have just a few background questions for 
statistical purposes. 
D1 
In what year were you born? Year recoded into age groups shown below. 
 
18 to 24 
9% 
 
25 to 34 
23% 
 
35 to 44 
18% 
 
45 to 54 
15% 
 
55 to 64 
14% 
 
65 or older 
17% 
 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
D2 
What is your gender? 
 
1 
Male 
48% 
 
2 
Female 
46% 
 
3 
Non-binary 
<1% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
6% 
D3 
Do you have one or more children under the age of 18 living in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
29% 
Ask D4 
 
2 
No 
67% 
Skip to D5 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
Skip to D5 
D4 
Do you have one or more children under the age of six living in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
41% 
 
2 
No 
57% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
D5 
Do you have one or more adults 65 years of age or older in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
29% 
 
2 
No 
66% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
406 of 575

--- page 407 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 61
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 12 
 
D6 
Do you own or rent your residence in San Mateo? 
 
1 
Own 
49% 
 
2 
Rent 
46% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
D7 
Which of the following best describes your current home? 
 
1 
Single family detached home 
52% 
 
2 
Townhome 
7% 
 
3 
Condominium 
11% 
 
4 
Apartment 
26% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
D8 
How many more years do you anticipate that you will be living in the City of San Mateo? 
 
1 
Less than 5 years 
21% 
 
2 
5 to 10 years 
30% 
 
3 
11 to 15 years 
9% 
 
4 
16 years or more 
32% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
9% 
D9 
Which of the following best describes your employment status? Would you say you are 
employed full-time, part-time, a student, a homemaker, retired, or are you in-between 
jobs right now? 
 
1 
Employed full-time 
61% 
Ask D10 
 
2 
Employed part-time 
6% 
Ask D10 
 
3 
Student 
5% 
Skip to D12 
 
4 
Homemaker 
1% 
Skip to D12 
 
5 
Retired 
18% 
Skip to D12 
 
6 
In-between jobs 
4% 
Skip to D12 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
Skip to D12 
D10 Are you currently working from home, commuting to a workplace outside of your home, 
or a mixture of both? 
 
1 
Working from home 
31% 
Ask D11 
 
2 
Commuting to a workplace outside 
home 
35% 
Skip to D12 
 
3 
Mixture of both 
34% 
Ask D11 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
Skip to D12 
407 of 575

--- page 408 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 62
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 13 
D11 How many days do you primarily work from home in a typical week? 
 
0 
Zero 
1% 
 
1 
One 
4% 
 
2 
Two 
14% 
 
3 
Three 
17% 
 
4 
Four 
15% 
 
5 
Five or more 
47% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
D12 What ethnic group do you consider yourself a part of or feel closest to? Read list if 
respondent hesitates. 
 
1 
Caucasian/White 
39% 
 
2 
Asian -- Korean, Chinese, Vietnamese, 
Japanese, Filipino or other Asian 
22% 
 
3 
Indian (India) 
2% 
 
4 
Latino/Hispanic/Mexican 
27% 
 
5 
African-American/Black 
2% 
 
6 
Native American Indian or Alaskan 
Native 
<1% 
 
7 
Pacific Islander 
1% 
 
8 
Mixed Heritage 
2% 
 
9 
Other 
1% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
Those are all of the questions that I have for you. Thanks so much for participating in this 
important survey! This survey was conducted for the City of San Mateo. 
 
Post Interview Items 
S1 
Survey Language 
 
1 
English 
93% 
 
2 
Spanish 
7% 
 
408 of 575

--- page 409 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/6/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL
MEMBERS
Amourence
Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy
Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo
CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo. org
March 06, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m. 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present: 
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash teleconferenced from: 364-1, Naoshima, Kagawa District, Kagawa 761-3110, 
Japan
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 1 through 10, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were
read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there was one speaker.  Michael Ragan had a
question regarding Item number 4; if the money spent toward the storm water funding analysis will be for actual work
done. He also asked that Item number 9 could show a map. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved: 
Newsom, Seconded: Hedges
Ayes:  
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes:  
None
1. 
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council special and regular meetings of February 21, 2023. 
2. 
Youth Commissioners to the Park and Recreation Commission – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “ Park and Recreation
Commission” to provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members. 
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2023-1
3. 
Peninsula Clean Energy Public EV Fleets Program – Customer Participation Agreement
Approve a Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy ( PCE) for participation in
PCE’ s Public Electric Vehicle Fleets Program at no cost to the City and authorize the Public Works
Director to enter into the agreement. 
4. 
Stormwater Funding Analysis – Agreement
Approve an agreement with SCI Consulting Group for professional services for Stormwater Funding
Analysis in an amount not to exceed $ 205,949; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
20,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: ACA425A3- D86F-46B2-9904- 3320B2222D9E
409 of 575

--- page 410 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/6/2023
Page 2
5. 
Collaborative Solutions, LLC, Workday Lean- On Services Support – Budget Appropriation and Statement
of Work Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of unassigned fund balance in the
General Fund of $112,650 to increase the Finance Department’ s 2022- 23 operating budget, and to
approve the Statement of Work for the Master Services Agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for
Workday Lean- On Services Support in the amount of $112,650, for a new agreement total of
2,979,545. Approval of the Statement of Work and a separate agenda item with Collaborative
Solutions, LLC will result in a new agreement total of $3,381,765. 
Enactment:   Resolution No. 22 (2023) 
6. 
Collaborative Solutions, LLC Enterprise Planning System Implementation Services – Supplemental
Budget Appropriation and Change Order
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $325,852 of unassigned fund
balance from the Equipment Replacement Fund, $59,517 of unassigned fund balance from the Sewer
Fund, and $16,851 of unassigned fund balance from the Construction Services Fund to increase the
budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project, and to approve Change Order No. 4 to
the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for enterprise resource planning system
implementation services in the amount of $402,220, for a new agreement total of $3,269,115. Approval
of Change Order No. 4 and a separate agenda item with Collaborative Solutions, LLC will result in a new
agreement total of $3,381,765. 
Enactment:   Resolution No. 23 (2023) 
7. 
E-Verify for Web Services Employers – Memorandum of Understanding
Approve the Department of Homeland Security‘ s E-Verify Memorandum of Understanding for Web
Services Employers, and authorize the Human Resources Director to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented. 
8. 
Police Department Serological Expenses for Forensic DNA Testing of Evidence – Change Order
Approve a change order to the San Mateo Police Department’ s purchase order with Serological
Research Institute for an additional $ 20,900 to cover the estimated remaining cost of service through
June 2023 for forensic DNA testing of evidence for investigation purposes, bringing the total amount
authorized for fiscal year 2022-23 to $110,900. 
9. 
Congressionally Directed Spending Request For 19th Avenue/ Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway
Project – Letters of Support
Authorize the Mayor to sign letters of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Senator Dianne
Feinstein, Senator Alex Padilla, and Representative Kevin Mullin for the San Mateo County
Transportation Authority' s request for congressionally directed spending for the 19th Avenue/ Fashion
Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway Project. 
10. 
Congressionally Directed Spending Projects/ Community Funded Projects – Letters of Support
Authorize letters of support signed by Mayor Lee to be submitted to Senator Feinstein, Senator Padilla, 
and Representative Mullin for Congressionally Directed Spending/ Community Funded projects in San
Mateo. 
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: ACA425A3- D86F-46B2-9904- 3320B2222D9E
410 of 575

--- page 411 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 3/6/2023
Page 3
OLD BUSINESS
11. 
General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y
Zachary Dahl, Community Development Deputy Director, provided a presentation outlining the history
of the General Plan update effort to date. He reviewed Council direction would be needed on height
ranges, how Measure Y is incorporated into the General Plan, if a future ballot initiative would be
needed to update Measure Y and if any other policies or programs should be considered. Joanna
Jansen, Lead Consultant, PlaceWorks, Inc., was present to answer questions. Council asked questions
and staff and the consultant responded. 
Public Comment – speaking with regards to housing and Measure Y. In person ( 11): Moises Valeda; Ken
Abreu; Jean Dail; Laurie Watanuki; Harry Moody; Elaine Salinger; Owen Day; Ted McKinnon; Bart
Pantoia; Mitch Speidle; and Michael Ragan. Remote ( 6): Michael Weinhauer; A & L Taner; Ken Chan; 
Karen Herrell; David Light; Lisa Vande Voorde; Gary; Taso Zografos; Jordan Grimes; Chris Brousseau; 
George; Roisin; and Laurie Hietter. 
Council recessed from 9:20 pm to 9:25 pm. Council reconvened and discussion ensued with additional
input from staff including clarification from the City Attorney on state law.  
Council provided direction to staff in three areas, these include: 
1. Confirm that the proposed height ranges associated with each land use designation are appropriate
to include in the Public Review Draft General Plan.   
Council Direction – Support the height/ density ranges recommended by staff, with the following
changes: 1) set Office High height max at 7 stories, and 2) remove High II for Residential and Mixed-
Use land uses. 
2. 
Confirm direction on General Plan alignment with Measure Y and a future ballot initiative to update
Measure Y. 
Council Direction – Support framework laid out by staff with target for November 2024 election, 
with the following direction: 1) conduct a statistically significant survey to test ballot feasibility, and
2) conduct robust outreach to all members of the community with materials and large graphics that
are legible and easy to understand. 
3. 
Provide input, if desired, on other policies or programs/ actions in the General Plan Update, including
the Housing Element, that should be evaluated for potential updates or revisions. 
Council Direction – Support for maintaining the draft local hiring and living wage policies/ actions
but provided language revisions to update three of the four. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles.  
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned in honor of Jeff Lee, who owned Blue Sky Cleaners in Downtown San Mateo at
10:53 p.m. His impact on the community and his customers will not be forgotten. 
APPROVED BY:                                                          
SUBMITTED BY: 
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
DocuSign Envelope ID: ACA425A3- D86F-46B2-9904- 3320B2222D9E
411 of 575

--- page 412 ---
March 31, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
via email 
 
Mr. Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director 
City of San Mateo, Community Development Dept. 
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
Re: Proposed General Plan Designation for Central Park Plaza, APN 034-144-220, 230 & 240 
 
Dear Mr. Dahl: 
 
Subsidiaries of The Tan Group own the above-referenced parcels which encompass the block 
bordered by El Camino Real, 4th St, 5th St and San Mateo Drive in Downtown San Mateo. I am 
writing this letter in support of Staff and City Council’s Preferred Scenario as outlined in the 
City’s Draft Goals, Policies, and Actions as presented on November 7, 2022, especially in 
regards to Study Area 4 on page 68 of the document.  
 
The current FAR, density and maximum height restrictions for the site are prohibitive for 
redevelopment to be financially feasible under current market conditions. Therefore, we are in 
favor of the proposed designation of Mixed-Use High II (Up to 10 Stories, 100-200 du/acre) for 
the subject property as presented to Council in the Draft Land Use Map on March 6th, 2023. 
 
Although there are no current plans in place for the subject block, the long-term goal is 
redevelopment that would add desperately needed mixed-use, transit-oriented housing and job 
space that is walkable to Caltrain and all the amenities Downtown San Mateo provides.  We are 
aware that the subject property is included in the Housing Element and we anticipate that future 
redevelopment would include a housing component. 
 
We are excited to be part of the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 process. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Jeff Gilman 
Jeff Gilman 
Vice President, Real Estate 
The Tan Group 
412 of 575

--- page 413 ---
From: Connie Weiss 
 
Sent: Friday, March 31, 2023 1:22:54 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: April 3, 2023 Agenda Item #16  
  
Hello City Council Members,  
 
So. Here we are. Again.  
 
At the March 6th meeting, many residents of San Mateo took the time to emphasize the importance of 
respecting Measure Y when considering new development. Oddly, the usual out-of-town special 
interests for over building San Mateo were mostly absent, which made the voice of the people more 
clear. And the decisions made, and entered into the minutes, were clear too: 
 
1) Take High 2 off the table for Residential and Mixed Use (agreed to 8 stories with 2 more for density 
bonus) 
2) Conduct a survey to test ballot language, not on the desirability of Measure Y 
 
Note that right after this meeting, the San Mateo Daily Journal focused their poll question on 
the support of Measure Y, which (again) showed a majority supporting it.  
 
Will we keep revisiting this until the Mayor gets the answer she wants instead of respecting those she is 
supposed to serve? Will out-of-town special interest and big builders flood the room to squelch the 
voice of the people? Will the Mayor wear her high-rise building blouse again?  
 
As a long time San Mateo resident who loves this city dearly, I ask Council to respect the work of City 
Staff who have said repeatedly they can work with Measure Y and allow affordable housing to be built 
(we have enough luxury housing and empty office space for now). 
 
Here are the key items residents have voiced consistently, and will again on Monday: 
• 
Measure Y is what the people voted on, multiple times! 
• 
We don't want Measure Y height and density limits exceeded, especially in residential 
neighborhoods. 
• 
The state has already given developers two extra stories (exceeding Measure Y limits). 
Thank you, 
 
Connie Weiss 
San Mateo Resident 
 
 
 
413 of 575

--- page 414 ---
From: Danny Baciocco 
 
Sent: Friday, March 31, 2023 4:47:11 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Use Changes - 25th Ave  
  
Hello,   
 
I live on 25th Avenue between Hacienda and Isabelle, and was just greeted by a neighbor who shared 
detailed plans for a proposed increase in the height level maximum restriction on not only 25th Ave in 
the commercial zone, but also in the parking lot that is in the residential zone of 25th Ave, and is across 
the street from my home.  
 
My first question, is why is this information coming from a concerned neighbor, and not our 
Counselman or the City directly?  
 
I would like to know exact dates this is going to be discussed, debated, and voted on by the city counsel 
or any other board or committee meeting that would impact a final decision. Please advise on these 
dates as soon as possible. I plan on attending these meetings, and will be engaging with every single one 
of my neighbors regarding this plan. Further, I would like to request a full detail of the proposal that has 
been submitted, and a general outline of each council member's position  on the proposal. 
 
The overall project but more importantly certain elements of this development brought to my attention 
cause deep concern, as does the lack of communication with those these plans effect most. I am 
generally for the increase of housing in our city, and see the need for multifamily residents, of which our 
neighborhood has ample amounts, but a 5 Story tower with no parking in the middle of a residential 
zone is completely unacceptable.  
 
 
Kind Regards, 
Danny Baciocco  
 
414 of 575

--- page 415 ---
From:

Sent: Friday, March 31, 2023 6:50:13 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Jon Mays' <jon@smdailyjournal.com>; atoledo@bayareanewsgroup.com
<atoledo@bayareanewsgroup.com>; tsiler@KQED.com <tsiler@KQED.com>; saaugust@cbs.com
<saaugust@cbs.com>; Anna Kuhre Connie Weiss

; ‘Lisa Taner'

; ‘Michael Nash '

; ‘Michael Weinhauer '
; ‘Robin Page '

; ‘Tom Lease '

; ‘Trina Pierce '
Subject: Comment for April 3rd Study Session

Greetings City Council Members,

How many times do the residents of San Mateo need to say “NO” to disregarding the elements of
Measure Y?

Time and time again the residents have spoken up and demanded the City Council (and Commissions)
stop being the pawns of developers and HEAR, LISTEN to and ABIDE by what the residents want.

Perhaps the City Attorney could brief some of the council members and commissioners on what is
meant by D-E-M-O-C-R-A-C-Y.

It appears that Mayor Lee was the only person present at the March 6" meeting who didn’t clearly hear,
or understand, the decisions made by council to:

1) Take High 2 off the table for Residential and Mixed Use (agreed to 8 stories with 2 more for density
bonus)
2) Conduct a survey to test ballot language, not on the desirability of Measure Y

| do find that quite unusual for her, as she generally rattles off obscure (and sometime questionable)
statistics to “educate” city staff when she wants to beleaguer a point at the expense of some civil
servant from her bully pulpit. Perhaps she did grasp the concepts, but she later found that her developer
and special interest friends and supporters didn’t like the decisions and her memory became
mysteriously clouded.

Even a San Mateo Daily Journal poll question found overwhelming support of Measure Y.

Should “Groundhog Day” be shown over and over as preparation for Lee’s disturbing penchant for
rerunning decisions her sponsors disagree with?

Lee quite eloquently stated, after Measure Y was passed, what the future held in a RECORDED

statement during the post-election virtual party held by the (aggressively opposed to Measure Y)
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo:

415 of 575


--- page 416 ---
“We will measure ourselves by the moments of joy and connection to our coalition...that is what is going 
to take us forward…I'm in this with you - the fight is not over." 
  
So, are we to believe Lee now has developed some form of “political amnesia” and it is allowable to try 
to bully a reversal of a council decision? 
  
We are watching. 
We will be talking and talking loudly. 
We will be voting. 
  
Please ignore such violations of democratic principles, retain the decisions as made and recorded in 
the March 6th meeting minutes. 
  
Regards, 
  
Dave Cohen 
San Mateo VOTER and Resident 
 
416 of 575

--- page 417 ---
From: Sharon Lin 
 
Sent: Friday, March 31, 2023 4:59:55 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Draft GP  
  
Dear Mayor and Councilmembers, 
I recently found out about the proposed land uses and heights near 25th Ave and I am really upset. There 
was no pubic outreach letting me know this about proposal that affects me greatly. This is so close to my 
home and I had no idea. I am against the proposed heights and densities proposed. They do not belong 
in a neighborhood of one and two story homes. It is absurd to think a 5-story or higher building can abut a 
single family home. I will vote no on any measure to change the current height limits if the designation on 
the Farmer's Market lot and the part of 25th ave up against single family homes is not changed. 
Thank You, 
Sharon Lin 
 
417 of 575

--- page 418 ---
From: Paige Brennan <p
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 2:17:33 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Ave redevelopment plans  
  
Dear City Council, 
 
I live at 244 W. 25th Ave and was just informed of the plans to develop the church parking lot into a 
potentially 7 story building along with the redevelopment of 25th Ave. I’m attaching the document I 
received here. This is extremely concerning to us. We are on the residential side of 25th and something 
of this size makes absolutely no sense. Besides the parking issues alone, our property values will 
plummet. I work in real estate and I’m sure you’ve seen the turn the market has taken. Prices in this 
neighborhood have already come down and with a building like this they will certainly continue to do so 
at a more rapid clip. I sincerely hope this proposal will not go through. It’s bad for our neighborhood and 
San Mateo as a whole. This is a quiet residential community and while I can see adding more density 
closer to El Camino, this kind of development will seriously impact our community in a negative way. 
Thank you for taking the time to read this email. 
 
Sincerely, 
Paige  
 
 
Paige Bocci Brennan 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
418 of 575

--- page 419 ---
From: Leo Burns 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 6:57:31 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Ave.Proposal  
  
Dear Neighborhood Council Member, Adam Lorraine and all other Council Members,  We are quite 
distressed to learn of the Proposed General Plan Land Use and Heights for our 25th Avenue Area.  It 
seems very odd that nobody has contacted the neighbors(who would be directly affected by this drastic 
change in our neighborhood) about the proposal to override Measure Y.  Now, just two days before the 
proposal will be brought up at a City Council Meeting, a kind neighbor has told us about this 
proposal.  Why were we not notified about this proposal and that it will be discussed without proper 
notice?  It is very wrong of the City Council not to keep their constituents aware of what they are 
planning for our neighborhood, 
Therefore, please table discussion on this proposal until neighbors on 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 
Buena Vista and Isabelle Avenues; Flores, Garfield, Edison and Hacienda Streets; Portola Drive; Delmar 
Way; Mary Lu and LuluBelle Lanes and 26th Place have been thoroughly informed about this proposed 
change to their neighborhood. 
Thank you for your consideration.  With great concern,  Leo and Joyce Burns  
 
                                                                                         
 
 
 
419 of 575

--- page 420 ---
in
ul
|
#
_

me |e | me |,
an ae

mo

420 of 575


--- page 421 ---
421 of 575


--- page 422 ---
From:

Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 6:38:55 PM

To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: 25th Avenue/Hacienda

Hello Mr. Loraine,

We live on West 25" Avenue in San Mateo and have been here for almost 25 years now. We received
word about the proposed development plan for the church parking lot at the corner of 25" and
Hacienda and we have several concerns. We’ve discussed this with neighbors at length and it seems we
are all on the same page with our concerns.

This proposed development will congest traffic in an already-congested area. That parking lot is
currently used for church and restaurant parking as well as for the farmer’s market. Without
this parking, more traffic will spill over into the neighborhood streets causing slowdowns and
the potential for more accidents.

A 5-7 story building on that corner is complexly out of character for, and not compatible with,
our neighborhood. We bought our home here 25 years ago because we wanted to enjoy the
benefits of living in a neighborhood of single family homes. Erecting a 5-7 story building will
make our street look like El Camino Real which is something nobody I’ve talked with wants.

It is my understanding that we voted on height limits for new development and it appears these
proposals are attempting to bypass those limits. Again, not compatible with a neighborhood of
single-family homes.

This proposal was not presented to the residents of this street — to my knowledge — and we feel
as though this is being undertaken with no concern to the area’s long time residents; the people
that will be adversely affected by this plan.

| am cognizant of the need for more housing and understand that the State has mandated that we find
more housing in our cities. However, this particular plan sounds like a bad attempt at trying to squeeze
in 5-7 stories of housing where it doesn’t make sense.

Please do what you can to help scrap this idea and instead bring forward a more sensible plan for
housing to the attention of the neighbors on 25" Avenue for discussion and input.

Thanks for your time,

Steve and Sharon Cassinelli

422 of 575


--- page 423 ---
From: Breanne Feudale 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 12:58:45 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PROPOSED GENERAL PLAN LAND USE AND HEIGHTS – 25TH AVE AREA  
  
Dear City Council  
This proposal is absolutely outrageous Where was public outreach? Why didn’t District 5 
Councilmember Adam Loraine inform the neighborhood and speak with those most impacted? 
The heights and densities proposed at the Church parking lot are irrational; allowing 5-8 stories in the 
middle of single-family home neighborhoods is unreasonable. New buildings should be compatible with 
the neighborhood. 
Parking is not included in this development. Where will the church goers and shoppers park? There is 
already an issue from overflow parking into the neighborhoods from the lack of parking on 25th Ave. 
Where will the apartment residents park? How will a revitalized retail area succeed without parking? 
Every other shopping district has additional parking lots. This is a horrible plan!!!!! 
 
 
Breanne  
 
 
 
 
423 of 575

--- page 424 ---
From: Michelle Hudson <
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 8:49:08 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo Housing Element - Height and Density Limits  
  
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1, and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration at the Special Study 
Session on April 3rd. I wish to thank the council and staff for their recognition at the March 6th 
Special Study Session that we need to increase height and density limits over those allowed by 
Measure Y in our General Plan Update. I am asking that you consider the following: 
 
• Greater densification in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of reducing 
CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. Greater 
densities also allow for higher numbers of affordable units. This satisfies requirements 
for both social justice and regional economic needs. 
 
• The City has recently received its second letter from HCD stating that the San Mateo 
Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. The review letter from HCD cites 
serious flaws in the Site Inventory with respect to a great many of the sites’ suitability 
and capacity. This undercuts the claim that the city can move forward without serious 
consideration of either relaxing height limits imposed by Measure Y on an expedited 
basis to increase site capacity or else subject the R1 neighborhoods to potential 
upzoning. Please bear in mind that with the Builder’s Remedy, which is currently in 
play, San Mateo effectively has no enforceable zoning for proposed projects offering 
at least 20% affordable units. 
 
• Under the current circumstances, I feel it is extremely misguided to eliminate staff’s 
March 6 proposal for Residential High II land use designation. The city website states 
in a FAQ section on the General Plan that “at the very least, General Plan 2040 will 
need to ensure that enough land is zoned for housing for RHNA 2023-31”. Not only 
should Residential High II designation be retained but, if anything, height and density 
provisions should be extended and strengthened. 
 
• In the most recent opinion poll commissioned by the City, more than 60% of respondents 
last year indicated they favored higher densities and heights (up to 12 stories).  
 
• No one has yet brought up what the consequences might be if a ballot measure to 
overturn Measure Y fails. 
 
Based on the above considerations, I strongly urge the City Council to: 
 
1. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High 
II.  Now is not the time to get rid of these options. We need the flexibility to use 
these designations.  
2. Increase height limits for residential building to Residential High III for 12 
stories in the downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train 
stations. 
424 of 575

--- page 425 ---
3. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
4. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to pass a resolution 
overturning Measure Y, candidly assess what this could mean for future 
compliance with the HCD, and entertain possible contingency plans. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michelle Hudson 
 
425 of 575

--- page 426 ---
From: Mark Lauricella 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 4:44:03 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PROPOSED GENERAL PLAN LAND USE AND HEIGHTS – 25TH AVE AREA  
  
Hi Adam,  
 
I war born and raised in Redwoodcity. I went to high-school at Junipero Serra and currently live on West 
25th ave. Having a massive building unit at the church parking lot would create a parking nightmare! 
Look at the Hillsdale Mall area and the amount of parking needed for the apartments. It’s over crowded 
day and night. There’s a reason why we left the over crowed area and moved to 25th avenue. I am 
happy with the shops on 25th and do not see the benefit from evicting small business owners. Please 
rethink this plan, before making your decision. Thank you. 
 
426 of 575

--- page 427 ---
From: Jen Lee 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 3:02:45 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Ave Draft GP  
  
Mayor and Council Members,  
I am a small business owner on 25th Ave and I oppose the heights and densities on the draft GP.  I am 
worried I will lose my business and not be able afford the rent at a new building. I wish the City had 
reached out to the business owners on 25th. The construction across the street is already affecting my 
business with all the construction noise, parking and traffic. Please help keep small businesses in 
business.  
Thank you  
Jenny Li 
Hair Spectrum  
 
 
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone 
 
427 of 575

--- page 428 ---
From: oscar lopez-guerra.net 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 10:50:02 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Building Heights.  
  
We do not want to re-visit this issue. Mayor Lee, stop trying to impose your wishes on us. 
Oscar López-Guerra 
🇺🇺🇺🇺 
 
428 of 575

--- page 429 ---
From: Kathy Mceachron 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 12:25:15 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Avenue proposed apartment building  
  
Dear City Council members,  
 
My Name is Kathy McEachron and I have lived at 300 W 25th Avenue for 31 years this 
year.  We live in a nice quiet neighborhood and know many of our neighbors. 
 
We were quite stunned to hear that the parking lot on 25th and Hacienda where we 
enjoy the farmers market each year has a proposed building plan.  Anyone that 
requests a building or addition permit has to let the neighbors know and we usually 
receive a letter regarding the building information.  We did not receive anything 
regarding the building.   Are they trying to get this past us without listening to the 
neighbors that this will affect?   
 
Not only are they looking at 3-5 stories which in San Mateo is only 4 stories because of 
measure Y, but it does not fit in our neighborhood.  I grew up in San Mateo and am not 
pleased with all the apartment buildings.  I understand a few but it is way out of 
proportion to homes.  They do not plan to offer parking which means they will park in 
our street in front of our homes.  Traffic will increase.  But most importantly, this building 
does not fit and never will.  We don't want people looking down into our yards that are 
private, or losing our sun like El Camino. 
 
It is time to stop the building.  Le'ts focus on fixing our roads which are a mess, cleaning 
up San Mateo that has become littered.  We are tired of the council not listening to the 
neighbors and going ahead with all these buildings.  No one wants Passages 
either.  Enough is enough already. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Kathy McEachron 
 
429 of 575

--- page 430 ---
From: Jill McHale 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 11:22:46 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Against re-opening building heights  
  
I am a home owner in San Mateo. I am against re-opening matters already decided by Council earlier in 
the month in regard to building heights to study - since Council already voted against the highest heights 
option.  
 
I am concerned that Mayor Lee states the previous meeting Minutes were 'confusing’ - this seems 
manipulative and false - and has used this excuse to reopen what’s already been decided by Voters via 
Measure Y and Council. 
 
I am against a building higher than two stories at Hacienda and 25th. 
 
Please hear my voice. 
 
 
Jill McHale 
 
 
 
 
430 of 575

--- page 431 ---
From: Aimee WCrollerskate 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 10:43:24 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: End the antics and honor the will of the voters - Support Measure Y  
  
As a constituent of San Mateo, I've had to write far too many letters - not about important community 
issues - but about the conduct of members of this council regarding their efforts to undermine the will 
of the people and the settled vote on Measure Y.  
 
I will remind you all again that trust in our local government is critical, and a rejection of the measure 
that voters have already approved will certainly shatter that trust. Many are already furious with some 
in the Planning Council's previous back door meetings and other underhanded behavior.  
 
Mayor Lee's ongoing disregard for established protocols and the voters of her city regarding this issue 
is completely inappropriate. 
 
I ask once again that the City Council uphold the will of the voters/Measure Y and ACCEPT the current 
Housing Element including Building Heights as presented by City staff previously on January 24th.  
-- 
Regards,   
Aimee Stevland 
Resident 
 
 
431 of 575

--- page 432 ---
From: Kathy Wardwell 
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 4:29:23 PM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Prop y  
  
My family has lived in San Mateo since 1953. I and my children are graduates of San Mateo schools.   
Please listen to the residents. We voted for Prop Y and it is the councils job to uphold it.  
Kathy Wardwell  
 
432 of 575

--- page 433 ---
From: weller323 <
 
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 11:01:20 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: April 3 Study Session  
  
Dear City Council Members, 
I am disappointed to have to write another email regarding housing density and height 
limits in San Mateo.  It had been my understanding that after the March study session 
the city council had reached a consensus on how to proceed with land use planning, 
height and density limits as well as future application of Measure Y.   
 
There already are many office and mixed use complexes under construction.  There are 
also many "for lease" and "for rent" signs throughout the city.  Yes, more housing is 
included, but little of it will be actually affordable.  Why are some putting so much 
pressure on development for the sake of development?  The answer is obvious---
it's all about making fast money, not about thoughtful future planning.  I do not want San 
Mateo  to become another Redwood City or Millbrae.  I hope 10 years from now I will 
not be lamenting how our city has become another cold, characterless place made up of 
sterile, blocky rectangles with windy canyons between buildings.  Ugh!  Encroaching 
into our residential areas---No!   
 
 
The state has already allowed the city to add 2 stories to Measure Y limits.  Measure Y 
has been approved by a majority of San Mateans multiple times.  Citizens have clearly 
spoken we do not want developers to determine the character of our residential 
neighborhoods.  And we do not want buildings that exceed Measure Y and state-
mandated limits.   
 
A concerned citizen, 
Nancy Weller 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
433 of 575

--- page 434 ---
From: stephenweller92

Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 8:49:44 AM

To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: San Mateo Integrity

City Council Members and Staff.

A majority of the residents of The City of San Mateo have expressed their desire to maintain the current
building height limits for buildings.

Elements of the City Council are influenced by developers to ignore the decision on height limits and
overcome the legal limits expressed in Measure Y.
Here we go again: another "study" to rehash the same issue!

Let's move on. Higher buildings are not necessary to achieve the goal of providing housing needs.
Higher buildings serve the needs of "developers" who wish to increase pofit at the expense of the
quality of life for residents of our City.

No! to more studies.

No! to raising height limits for buikdings in this City.

Stephen A. Weller, MD

Sent from my T-Mobile 4G LTE Device

434 of 575


--- page 435 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 7:39:18 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Concerns Re: Proposed New Developments In The 25th Avenue Area  
  
City Councilmember Adam Loraine & fellow City Council Members:  
 
As a regular voter & long time resident of 23rd Avenue in San Mateo, I am extremely concerned about 
preliminary plans to develop the church parking lot at 24th & Hacienda as well as the construction of a 
new multi-story mixed use building on 25th Avenue.   
 
Church Parking Lot 
-------------------------------- 
Plans for the possible development of this parcel to include a multi-story, high density residential 
building that dramatically exceeds the existing 24' zoned height limit & single-family nature of this 
neighborhood is an outrageous & ill-conceived  proposition that will most certainly negatively impact 
the quality of life existing residents of this neighborhood pay dearly to enjoy.  Increased traffic 
congestion, more overflow parking (from building residents & guests, churchgoers & 25th Ave shoppers) 
spewing into the immediately adjacent neighborhood, the loss of an important famers market location 
and the sunlight shadow that this unreasonably tall building will cast over our single-family residential 
neighborhood are a few of the MANY concerns I have about this proposal. Developments of this height 
& density belong on or very near the El Camino corridor, NOT blocks away in the middle of a heritage 
residential neighborhood. 
 
25th Avenue Multi-Story Mixed Use Building 
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
I support the idea of a revitalized 25th retail/mixed use area that satisfies useful & important purposes 
for both residents and small businesses alike in San Mateo. In my opinion, fundamental to any 
successful revitalization effort on 25th Avenue will be the addition of adequate and convenient parking 
options for all who come by car to execute business in this area.... something that has been woefully 
neglected heretofore; much to the detriment of the area's existing retailers, restauranteurs and their 
customers.  
Any additional development under consideration for 25th Avenue MUST include the addition of 
adequate and appropriate parking accomodations else the adjacent residential neighborhoods will be 
flooded with the resulting overflow parking & congestion making the entire enterprise MISERABLE for all 
concerned.  PLEASE, act responsibly and rationally on your constituents' behalf in this matter:  No new 
parking, no additional development. 
 
Further, I'm puzzled and more than a little troubled that District 5 Councilmember Adam Loraine has not 
made ANY attempt to inform and solicit opinions and comments from residents of my neighborhood re: 
these very important and germaine matters currently under consideration by the City Council.  I'd 
remind Mr. Loraine and brethren that you weren't elected to ignore your district's constituents best 
interests or withhold information that prevents their due process.  
 
 
Mark Burton 
 
435 of 575

--- page 436 ---
436 of 575

--- page 437 ---
From: Eldridge, Karyl 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 7:35:38 PM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam 
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan update/The question of height and density  
  
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
  
Thank you very much for the opportunity to submit comments on the matter of heights and 
densities for the General Plan update. This is obviously a matter of great importance to the future 
of San Mateo and all of those living here. 
  
Prior to March 6, 2023, the General Plan update proposed significant rezoning in the city’s 
commercial areas and provided for building heights of up to 12 stories in some locations. At the 
March 6 meeting, however, the city council lowered the maximum building height, decreased 
associated densities, and reduced the areas to be rezoned. The council even pushed beyond the 
staff recommendation to reduce the maximum height to ten stories, adopting eight stories 
instead, especially surprising in light of the finding by the True North Survey that 63% of those 
polled in San Mateo were open to as many as 12 stories.   
  
These reductions do not properly reflect the magnitude of the housing crisis in the City of San 
Mateo. They place unfortunate and unnecessary limits on our ability to add to the supply of both 
market-rate and affordable homes. In so doing, they strangle our ability to push back against an 
affordability problem that is impoverishing renters and precluding the possibility of home 
ownership for so many people. 
  
The San Mateo housing element provides ample data pointing to our need to make better use of 
the land.  A few of the data points that appear are these: 
  Rents in San Mateo increased 74% from 2009 to 2019. 
  Home prices in San Mateo increased 115% from 2010 to 2020. 
  The number of homes in San Mateo increased 3.6% from 2010 to 2020, which is below the 
growth rate for San Mateo County and below the growth rate of the region’s housing 
stock. 
  Between 2002 and 2018, the jobs-household ratio in San Mateo increased from 1.17 to 
1.45. 
Every piece of land in San Mateo is precious and needs to be used to strong advantage in the 
effort to house people at all income levels, create economic opportunities, and protect our 
environment.  In the interest of realizing these goals, the reductions made on March 6 should be 
reversed, including the reduction of the maximum building height to 8 stories.  At a time when 
meaningful change is called for, eight stories is not enough. 
437 of 575

--- page 438 ---
Sincerely, 
  
Karyl Eldridge 
Vice Chair of One San Mateo 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
// 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you 
know is valid to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not 
have authority to bind a party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication. 
 
438 of 575

--- page 439 ---
From: Kathy Feudale 
> 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 12:20:33 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Ross Feudale 
<rfeudale60@gmail.com> 
Subject: proposal to build high rise  
  
City Council:  
 
We are  thoroughly alarmed and disappointed that there is even a consideration for plans to build a 3-5-
7 story building in the treasured and well established neighborhood of 25th Ave and Hacienda 
Streets.  My spouse and I moved here because we wanted to invest and live in a community where we 
could raise a family and in turn, live out our lives in a well respected and familiar environment. This 
proposed building will change the whole character of the community. Not only will it increase the 
population and increase parking difficulties, it will change the look of the neighborhood by taking away 
our airspace. A highrise building would be an eyesore and  has no place among  a settled and fixed 
community of single family homes. We pay very high taxes in this area. It is  not fair or honest to serve 
as  council members unless one is working for the betterment of the people who reside in this 
community. A highrise in a settled and traditional family neighborhood is not appropriate. We are a 
close-knit community that cares and knows each other personally. Currently the space 
considered serves as a parking  lot for church and other community functions. There are weekly 
Farmer's Markets and Second Harvest meets there also. As council members, please consider how 
these  current functions serve the community in a positive way and support the community in which we 
live.  Please do not cripple our community: help us continue to flourish.   
Ross and Kathleen Feudale 
 
439 of 575

--- page 440 ---
From: HOLLY HEWITT <
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 1:12:31 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y  
  
Mayor Lee, please stop trying to undo Measure Y.  
Regards, 
Holly Hewitt  
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
440 of 575

--- page 441 ---
From: Gail Marlin 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 2:15:12 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height Limit  
  
To the San Mateo city council..........we the voters have already spoken.   Why can't the council abide by 
this?  Gail Marlin   
 
 
441 of 575

--- page 442 ---
From: Lesley McCreath 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 5:45:57 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject:  
  
Mayor and Council Members,  
I am writing in opposition to the proposed demolition and huge construction on our 25th Avenue 
shopping area. It is shocking that this has been pushed along with little or no discussion with the 
property owners in the neighborhood, and, I assume, no regard for the displacement of current business 
owners. As a 27 year resident of the neighborhood I frequent several of the businesses on 25th Avenue, 
which I doubt would be able to buy back into such a monolith. There must be other solutions than the 
ugly "mixed use" building being replicated everywhere. Choose a few of the addresses and build truly 
affordable apartments a few stories high - save the parking and atmosphere of our street that really 
does speak to quality of life in San Mateo.  
Thank you, 
Lesley McCreath 
 
 
442 of 575

--- page 443 ---
From: Ricki McGlashan 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 9:28:56 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing in San Mateo  
  
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I’m writing as a San Mateo resident to address the height and density limits under consideration at the 
Special Study Session on April 3rd. We are asking that you consider the following: 
• 
Greater densification in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of reducing CO2 
emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. Greater densities also allow 
for higher numbers of affordable units. This satisfies requirements for both social justice and 
regional economic needs. 
• 
The Builders’ Remedy is not something we want to deal with on every proposal.  The council has 
to get out in front of this. 
There has never been a generation that didn’t long for the good old days.  But never has anyone ever 
been able to hang on to the way things used to be.  The best we can do, the most beneficial, is to 
acknowledge population increases and densities and enable our city to adapt in the most agreeable 
way. 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to: 
1. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High II.  Now is not the 
time to get rid of these options. We need the flexibility to use these designations.  
2. Increase height limits for residential building to Residential High III for 12 stories in the 
downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
3. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino corridor. 
4. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to pass a resolution overturning Measure 
Y, candidly assess what this could mean for future compliance with the HCD, and entertain 
possible contingency plans. 
Sincerely, 
Ricki and Doug McGlashan 
 
443 of 575

--- page 444 ---
From: Martha G Moore 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 2:52:08 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height Limits  
  
Please do not permit skyscrapers or multistory buildings near 25thAvenue! 
They will block The sun and create too much congestion near the Expo Center 
And major churches and restaurants. Maybe a better idea would be to redevelop the 
Small shops and restaurants on 25th, offering housing above store and a post office 
On both sides of the street. 
 
444 of 575

--- page 445 ---
From: Claudia M. 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 12:36:31 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height limits  
  
We are residents of San Mateo and are thunderstruck to hear that the height limits Prop Y is being 
reviewed.  Can’t understand why when we already voted that you would even think about 
reviewing.  The residents of San Mateo have spoken.  
Please listen to us and not the developers. We deserve you to listen and not ruin our city by allowing 
developers to ruin our neighborhoods. 
Claudia Moquin 
 
 
--  
  
“I have always loved the beach. The smell of the salty water, the wind in my face, the gentle 
roar of the waves all combine to create a sense of peace and calm.”    -- Anonymous 
 
445 of 575

--- page 446 ---
From: John Penny 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 5:24:40 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Ill Advised Growth  
  
City Council Members,  
The heights and densities proposed at the Farmer’s Market parking lot are absurd; 
allowing 5-8 stories in the middle of single-family home neighborhoods 
is unreasonable.  New buildings should be compatible with the neighborhood. The 
current height limit at the parking lot is 24ft and the proposal allows buildings up to 
50ft (with the potential for 70ft with density bonuses). The current height limit for 
the zoning at 25th Ave is 25ft and the proposal allows 60ft (with the potential for 80ft 
with density bonuses). The density and heights would be the same as El Camino! 
 Parking is very limited in this development. Where will the church goers and 
shoppers park? Where will the apartment residents park? How will a revitalized retail 
area succeed without parking? Every other shopping district has additional parking 
lots.  These increased densities will cause more traffic congestion in our 
neighborhood and amplify the already existing issue of overflow parking into the 
neighborhoods.  
Have considerations been made for the sunlight impact a 70ft tall building and the 
shadow it would cast? A tower of these heights looming over its single-family home 
neighbors will cast a shadow multiple times greater than the building height, 
particularly worse during winter months.  
  
Supporting the growth of our community should involve preserving what we have, while reinvesting in 
our local businesses, supporting small businesses, and prioritizing smart development of affordable 
housing. This plan is not in accordance with any of those concepts.  I hope you can correct this ill advised 
direction. 
John C. Penny       
 
 
446 of 575

--- page 447 ---
From: Gonzalo Ruiz 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 4:20:34 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PROPOSED GENERAL PLAN USE AND HEIGHTS - 25th AVE AREA  
  
To the San Mateo Cory Council: 
 
What a poor job are you doing in failing to inform the neighbors about your plans.  
 
We categorically oppose the plans being proposed on 25th Ave.  
 
This is in contravention of various laws and ordinances and is NOT taking into account the neighbors in 
the area either.  
 
We have seen a huge rise in crime (my catalytic converter has been stolen) and rather Thant be thinking 
about this you should be increasing ensuring our neighborhood's safety is observed.   
 
We should be focusing on reinvesting in local business.  
 
We demand our voices to be heard.  This is an absolute abuse of power.   
 
 
 
447 of 575

--- page 448 ---
From: Gonzalo Ruiz 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 7:55:15 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: NO TO YOUR PLAN ON 25th Ave!!!  
  
The nerve to try to do something without checking with the neighbors!!! 
 
Be ashamed  
 
Sent from Proton Mail for iOS 
 
448 of 575

--- page 449 ---
From: Dave Santos 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 8:24 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Proposed General Plan Use and heights -25th Ave Area 
  
City Council Members:  
I recently read a nextdoor posting about the council’s plans to develop the church 
parking lot at the corner of 25th and Hacienda.  
As a member of this community, I am concerned that I was not given an 
opportunity for input into this development. I am opposed to a development of 
this size because it does not fit with the surrounding community of single-family 
homes.   
Currently, the church parking lot has a multitude of uses, and where are people 
going to park for church services and activities not to mention for housing and 
office work if this parking lot is removed and the site developed?  
I acknowledge the state requirement to develop future housing but am concerned 
about the lack of process and the override of Measure Y passed by voters.   
If the council wants to override Measure Y, this needs to be put to a city-wide 
referendum and the development be a topic of further discussion.  
Thank you for your consideration in this matter.  
 
Sincerely.  
 
Dave Santos  
  
 
 
 
449 of 575

--- page 450 ---
From: Francie 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 12:22:37 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: H2 classification  
  
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the City Council,  
 
1.  
It was decided according to the minutes at the 3/6/23 City Council meeting, to remove the Residential 
and Mixed Use H2 classification.  Residential and Mixed Use High 2 are both 6-10 stories - 100-200 
Density Units.  This would bring it the height to 12 stories with 2 stories added for State Density Bonus.   
 
The agreement at the 3/6/23 meeting for the maximum height and density ranges for Residential and 
Mixed Use High 1 was 5-8 stories and 130 Density Units, and this is our choice.  
 
I support the March 6, 2023 decision to remove the H2 classification.  
 
2.  In regards to conducting a "statistically significant" survey to test ballot feasibility, the words 
“statistically significant” should be stricken because it is a loaded term.  Instead, conduct a survey to test 
ballot language, not on the desirability of Measure Y.  
 
Mayor Lee, we are paying attention so do not keep redoing this because you personally did not like the 
initial outcome.  
 
Frances Souza 
Central San Mateo resident & voter  
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
450 of 575

--- page 451 ---
From: Christina Ward 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 11:25:41 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Resident Feedback: Proposal for 25th Avenue & Farmers' Market Lot Redevelopment  
  
Hello, 
 
I am a proud homeowner and resident of the 25th Avenue neighborhood, and have never once felt a 
need to attend a Council meeting, or to join the dialogue around zoning issues, but I was genuinely 
shocked to see what is being considered for 25th Avenue and the farmers’ market/parking lot. 
 
To be clear, I am 100% pro-development, pro-density, and love living in a multi-family-zoned 
neighborhood where I can walk to a produce market, post office, restaurants, and retail. My home is next 
to a large duplex and an apartment complex, and I happily chose that. I think this area has plenty of room 
to continue increasing density, and to boost development and re-development of the 25th Avenue 
commercial district; however, 7-8 story buildings are EXTREMELY high and unreasonable here. The 25th 
Avenue district is surrounded on 3 sides by single-family homes, two-family homes, duplexes, triplexes, 
and 2-3 story apartment buildings - and the farmers’ market/parking lot itself is truly nestled within this 
residential neighborhood. I spent some time today looking for (and at) similarly-sized buildings in both 
San Mateo and San Francisco, and it was very apparent to me that a 7-story building would tower over 
every single home (including even 3-story apartment buildings multiple blocks away) in an outrageously 
disproportionate way.  
 
With regards to the parking lot space: while a 3-4 story building (meaning the actual, total number of 
levels - density bonuses are misleading and not transparent for purposes of these discussions) would still 
of course be taller than anything around it, I think a building that actually fit into the neighborhood 
architecturally (not clashing with the entire neighborhood feel) would be a perfectly understandable and 
welcome addition. 4-story buildings on 25th Avenue seem perfectly reasonable as well, and importantly, 
would allow for a clear transition from the neighborhood to/from El Camino Real. 
 
If we absolutely need 7-8 story buildings somewhere in this immediate area, other good potential options 
would seem to be:  
- 20th Avenue west of El Camino Real, which already has many tall buildings and still countless 
underutilized lots;  
- El Camino Real itself; 
- 25th Avenue east of ECR, which is also underutilized, slightly closer to public transit, and even closer to 
additional commercial areas such as the growing Delaware Street district; and 
- 21st Avenue (east of ECR), which is of course smaller than these other options, but still highly 
underutilized. 
(I actually live 3 blocks north of 25th Avenue, and only 1 short block west of El Camino, so putting 7-8 
story buildings on 20th Avenue and/or El Camino instead of 25th Avenue would be far more in my 
“backyard”, but it still seems like a far better choice to me to focus on maximizing the use of other viable 
spaces before completely transforming the heart of an entire residential neighborhood.) 
 
I truly hope that as our elected representatives, you will genuinely consider the voices of those who 
actually live in this neighborhood above any outside interests. 
 
Thank you, 
Christina Ward 
 
451 of 575

--- page 452 ---
From: Kristen Watts-Penny 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 4:57:18 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Proposals for 25th Avenue  
  
Dear City Council, 
I fear the stampede to develop is jeopardizing the survival of a beloved neighborhood.  Please consider how 
you would feel if this was your neighborhood.  Here are some of the concerns of those who actually live 
nearby: 
 
 
•       The heights and densities proposed at the Farmer’s Market 
parking lot are shocking; allowing 5-8 stories in the middle 
of single-family home neighborhoods is unreasonable.  
•       New buildings should be compatible with the 
neighborhood. The current height limit at the parking lot is 
24ft and the proposal allows buildings up to 50ft (with the 
potential for 70ft with density bonuses). The current height 
limit for the zoning at 25th Ave is 25ft and the proposal 
allows 60ft (with the potential for 80ft with density 
bonuses). The density and heights would be the same as El 
Camino! 
 
•       Parking is very limited in this development. Where will the church goers and shoppers park? 
Where will the apartment residents park? How will a revitalized retail area succeed without 
parking? Every other shopping district has additional parking lots.  These increased densities 
will cause more traffic congestion in our neighborhood and amplify the already existing issue 
of overflow parking into the neighborhoods. 
•       Have considerations been made for the sunlight impact a 70ft tall building and the shadow it 
would cast? A tower of these heights looming over its single-family home neighbors will cast a 
shadow multiple times greater than the building height, particularly worse during winter 
months. 
 
 
 Supporting the growth of our community should involve preserving what we have, while reinvesting in 
our local businesses, supporting small businesses, and prioritizing smart development of affordable 
housing. This plan is not in accordance with any of those concepts.  Please listen to the voices of those 
who live and work in the 25th Ave. neighborhoods.  Thank you.   
Kristen Watts-Penny 
 
 
 
  
 
452 of 575

--- page 453 ---
From: Robert Whitehair 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 2:46:16 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y and the Housing Element  
  
 
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration on April 3rd. I offer 
this background: 
1. Greater densification in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of reducing 
CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. 
2. Greater densities also allow for higher numbers of affordable units, including building 
space for support services.  
3. The City has recently received its second letter from HCD stating that the San Mateo 
Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. The review letter from HCD cites 
serious flaws in the site Inventory with respect to a great many of the sites’ suitability and 
capacity. This undercuts the claim that the city can move forward without serious 
consideration of either relaxing height limits imposed by Measure Y on an expedited 
basis to increase site capacity or else subject the R1 neighborhoods to potential 
upzoning. Please bear in mind that with the Builder’s Remedy, which is currently in play, 
San Mateo effectively has no enforceable zoning for proposed projects offering at least 
20% affordable units. 
4. My greatest fear is that those who want to keep the status quo of Measure Y will find out 
that their greatest fears are realized - unlimited height and density construction 
anywhere in the City. 
Based on the above considerations, I strongly urge the City Council to   
1. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High II.   
2. Increase height limits for residential buildings to Residential High III for 12 stories in the 
downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile of CalTrain stations. 
3. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino corridor.   
4. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to move forward with a ballot 
initiative to overturn or modify Measure Y 
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion.  
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Robert Whitehair 
San Mateo 
 
453 of 575

--- page 454 ---
From: Susan Wright 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 1:55 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Avenue development 
  
Greetings City Council Member Loraine- 
  
 I am contacting you as I have just learned of plans in the works to develop areas of W 25th Ave, of 
which I am a resident, and you are my Council Representative. I am upset by the fact that I have 
received no outreach/communication from any member of SM City Council, no information has been 
forthcoming, and absolutely no direct input has been sought from neighbors who would be impacted by 
such development. Am I missing something? Can you address these concerns by sharing any relevant 
information as it pertains to this unbelievably ridiculous plan, particularly for the area at Hacienda and 
25th Ave. 
As a longtime resident of San Mateo (40+ years) I am growing weary of the negative impact on the daily 
of all the development that is negatively impacting the quality of life in what used to be a very friendly 
city. I am not a NIMBY, and I welcome progress.....albeit there has to be some consideration given to the 
residents who already live here? Doesn't there? 
  
Most Sincerely- 
Susan Wright 
 
  
  
 
454 of 575

--- page 455 ---
From: Gary Germano

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 12:49:41 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: San Mateo Height Limits 4/3/2023 Meeting

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Ever since the original Measure H five story building height limit initiative was
written and passed by the people of San Mateo, it has been subsequently voted
on and passed again each time it sunsetted .

Clearly despite all the money spent by developers to promote what they wanted
our City to look like, it is very obvious that the residents in San Mateo are pleased
with the character and style we have achieved. The residents of San Mateo do
not want to destroy the suburban character of our City.

We elected you to represent our guidelines for development. We do not want our
elected officials to circumvent what we voted for.

We initially asked you not increase the five story maximum height limits for San
Mateo.

Subsequently, you increase them so much in your proposal that it requires a vote
of the people, which brings developer's big money in to lobby against San Mateo
resident's votes.

If you are going to reopen this discussion, make your current proposals meet the
Measure Y guidelines.

Thank you very much.
Sincerely,

Gary and Janet Germano

455 of 575


--- page 456 ---
From: Ted McKinnon 
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 1:01:40 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan Update Agenda Item for 4/3 City Council Meeting  
  
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 5 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration at the Special Study 
Session on April 3rd. We wish to thank the council and staff for their recognition at the March 
6th Special Study Session that we need to increase height and density limits over those allowed 
by Measure Y in our General Plan Update. We are asking that you consider the following: 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
Greater densification in areas close to public transit will 
• 
 have the benefit of reducing CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances 
and less urban sprawl. Greater densities also allow for higher numbers of 
affordable units. This satisfies requirements for both social justice and regional 
economic needs. 
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
The City has recently received its second letter from HCD 
• 
 stating that the San Mateo Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. 
The review letter from HCD cites serious flaws in the Site Inventory with respect 
to a great many of the sites’ suitability and capacity. This undercuts the claim that 
the city 
• 
 can move forward without serious consideration of either relaxing height limits 
imposed by Measure Y on an expedited basis to increase site capacity or else 
subject the R1 neighborhoods to potential upzoning. Please bear in mind that 
with the Builder’s Remedy, 
• 
 which is currently in play, San Mateo effectively has no enforceable zoning for 
proposed projects offering at least 20% affordable units. 
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
Under the current circumstances we feel it is extremely misguided 
• 
 to eliminate  staff’s March 6 proposal for Residential High II land use 
designation. The city website states in a FAQ section on the General Plan that 
456 of 575

--- page 457 ---
“at the very least, General Plan 2040 will need to ensure that enough land is 
zoned for housing for RHNA 
• 
 2023-31”. Not only should Residential High II designation be retained but, if 
anything, height and density provisions should be extended and strengthened. 
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
In the most recent opinion poll commissioned by the City, 
• 
 more than 60% of respondents last year indicated they favored higher densities 
and heights (up 
• 
 to 12 stories).  
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
No one has yet brought up what the consequences might be if 
• 
 a ballot measure to overturn Measure Y fails. 
• 
 
 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to: 
 
1.  
2.  
3. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and 
4.  Mixed Use High II.  Now is not the time to get rid of these options. We need the 
flexibility to use these designations.  
5.  
6.  
7.  
8. Increase height limits for residential building to Residential 
9.  High III for 12 stories in the downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile 
of Cal-Train stations 
10.  
11.  
12.  
13. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories 
14.  along the El Camino corridor. 
15.  
16.  
17.  
18. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to 
457 of 575

--- page 458 ---
19.  pass a resolution overturning Measure Y, candidly assess what this could mean 
for future compliance with the HCD, and entertain possible contingency plans. 
20.  
 
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Ted McKinnon 
 
458 of 575

--- page 459 ---
From: Barclay Moquin 
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 7:43:28 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: C Moquin 
 
Subject: Fwd: Proposal to override measure Y & 25th Ave project proposal  
  
Dear Neighborhood Council Member, Adam Lorraine and all other Council Members,   
 
 
We too agree and are quite distressed to learn of the Proposed General Plan Land Use and Heights for 
our 25th Avenue Area and  the height limit proposal to override measure Y.  We reiterate and copy 
below our neighbor concerns which are the same for us and all in our neighborhood. 
 
 
It seems very odd that nobody has contacted the neighbors(who would be directly affected by this 
drastic change in our neighborhood) about the proposal to override Measure Y.  Now, just two days 
before the proposal will be brought up at a City Council Meeting, a kind neighbor has told us about this 
proposal.  Why were we not notified about this proposal and that it will be discussed without proper 
notice?  It is very wrong of the City Council not to keep their constituents aware of what they are 
planning for our neighborhood, 
 
 
Therefore, please table discussion on this proposal until neighbors on 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 
Buena Vista and Isabelle Avenues; Flores, Garfield, Edison and Hacienda Streets; Portola Drive; Delmar 
Way; Mary Lu and LuluBelle Lanes and 26th Place have been thoroughly informed about this proposed 
change to their neighborhood. 
 
 
Thank you 
Barclay & Claudia Moquin 
 
 
 
459 of 575

--- page 460 ---
From: Karen S 
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:51:39 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City Council meeting on 4/3/23  
  
Dear City Council,  
 
I respectfully ask you to not disregard citizen input by reopening discussion regarding which 
building height limits to study and incorporate into the new General Plan. The most recent decision was 
reached based on significant resident input, council member input, and with voter-approved Measure Y 
as a consideration. No valid reason has been presented to reopen the matter and rehash it and take a 
new vote on it. It calls into question the honor and respectability and trustworthiness of the offices of 
city council and mayor when finalized decisions can be revisited without any validity. Please uphold the 
high calling of this office by asking all members of council to honor and abide by the decisions the 
council body has made. 
 
Sincerely, 
Karen Sid 
 
460 of 575

--- page 461 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 6:02:52 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Reopen discussion on building heights  
  
Dear Councilmembers, 
I strongly oppose reopening the discussion scheduled for the April 3rd council meeting regarding 
building heights per Mayor Lee’s request. Measure Y was approved by the majority of voters and the 
actions by our divisive mayor needs to stop.  
Regards, 
Bob Wackerman  
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
461 of 575

--- page 462 ---
From: Angie Fuqua

Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 4:32 PM

To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Measure Y April 3 City Council Study Session Remarks

In regards to Measure Y - we support updating Measure Y or placing it on the ballot.

As we live on Louise Lane and Edison Street, our support for changes to Measure Y is purely selfish - the
reason being is we want the lowest height buildings as new housing along Edison Street as proposed by
Bohannon for the Hillsdale Shopping Center.

However we will say it is unfortunate this measure does not protect residential neighborhoods from
having a developer build a 7 - 10 story building right next to single family homes, destroying the integrity
of the neighborhoods. It is fine to allow 7-10 stories housing along El Camino Real, but to allow it to
encroach on residential neighborhoods is a shame.

El Camino Real is just a way to get up and down the Peninsula. Nobody takes it for the beauty of it - they
take it for the function of it. That is where the housing with height should be allowed and placed - along El
Camino Real - not in residential areas along single family homes. | am sure where you live - you would
not want a 7-12 story building built next door to you.

Thank you.

Mark and _ Fuqua

462 of 575


--- page 463 ---
From: Peter Mandle 
  
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 6:57 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; City 
Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
To: Honorable Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
This note (1) repeats my March 3 email requesting that the City Council allow Measure Y to remain 
unchanged recognizing that it was supported by the majority of City's voters two years ago despite the 
well-funded efforts of the opposition outside interests and developers, (2) request that any changes or 
challenges to Measure Y occur through a ballot initiative, and (3) the City avoid the trouble and cost of a 
community survey due the questionable reliability of such a survey as any statistician will vouch.  
 
1.  Allow Measure Y to remain unchanged.  Measure Y allows sufficient housing to be developed in the 
City while achieving other community goals.  With Measure Y housing can and will be located in sites 
providing excellent access to transit. Voiding Measure Y and allowing 10- to 12-storey buildings will 
forever change the character of our City.  
 
2.  Require any changes or challenges to occur through a ballot. It is disheartening to see the 
opponents of Measure Y once again try to circumvent the democratic process.  Two years ago the 
opponents were able to unfairly introduce Measure R with the aid of the then City Council members. 
The opponents spent millions opposing Measure Y, using TV advertisements, numerous slick mailings, 
and other media to publish their views. With the aid of high-paid consultants, they published lies 
about Measure Y, including implying that Measure R provided housing for First Responders, unlike 
Measure Y which was patently false. The efforts of the opponents were largely funded by developers, 
outside interests, and non-residents.  In comparison Measure Y was truly a grassroots effort, with 
supporters, who were local residents, walking door-to-door and speaking with their neighbors. I hope 
you will recall the numerous lawn signs supporting Measure Y and the scarcity of signs supporting 
Measure R.  It was a David versus Goliath effort, and despite the odds David and the local residents 
won.  
 
I sincerely hope you do not overrule the residents who voted for Measure Y and side with the well-
funded developers, outside interests, and their slick agents and lobbyists.  
 
3.  Avoid a community survey.  Any qualified surveyor can "cook" the results of a survey by defining how 
questions are asked, what questions are included, and how the sampling is conducted, particularly if it is 
conducted on-line. If those overseeing a community survey have a specific objective and communicate 
this objective to the surveyor that they have engaged, I am confident the results will reflect the stated 
objective.  If an accurate survey is desired, I hope that the City staff and City Council will distance 
themselves from the process and have an intermediary acceptable to both the pro Measure Y and anti 
Measure Y factions oversee the survey. Otherwise the results will be and should be challenged. Better 
yet, avoid the community survey and rely upon the ballot box to guide City Council actions.  
 
Thank you for considering these comments. 
 
Sincerely, 
Peter Mandle  
463 of 575

--- page 464 ---
464 of 575

--- page 465 ---
From: Genel Morgan <
  
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 8:07 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
Dear City Council, 
 
My expectation is that the members of the City Council will respect and honor the will of the voters who 
PASSED Measure Y in our last election, no matter what their personal opinion is. 
 
 I am upset that some people, including members of the City Council, are now pushing to change the 
building restrictions contained in Measure Y, because their "side" didn't win.  
 
It is my understanding that San Mateo can meet the mandated amount of housing from the state even 
with Measure Y restrictions. It appears only because of pressure from Bohanon and other corporate 
builders that city officials want to "confirm direction on land use heights and densities and how to 
address Measure Y in the General Plan Update". That direction has already been given by the voters by 
passing Measure Y! 
 
I oppose a countywide survey. 
I oppose a future ballot initiative "to update" (ie change) Measure Y. Put it on the ballot in 10 years 
when Measure Y sunsets. 
I oppose bending to the will of builders who only care about build, build, build for money's sake with no 
regard for the citizens affected by that building. 
I support that new buildings be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. I oppose allowing 
building on the parking lot at Hacienda and 25th to be higher than limits within the neighborhood. 
 
YOU are supposed to represent all of us in San Mateo. We vote you into office, not builders.. Follow the 
law and support Measure Y criteria.  
 
Sincerely, 
Genel Morgan 
 
 
 
 
465 of 575

--- page 466 ---
From: Nancy Schneider 
  
Sent: Saturday, April 1, 2023 3:44 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan Update - Item 16 April 3 Regular Meeting 
 
 
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash and Councilmembers Loraine, Hedges and 
Newsom,  
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration at the Special Study 
Session on April 3rd. I would like to thank the Council and City Staff for their recognition at the 
March 6th Special Study Session that we need to increase height and density limits over those 
allowed by Measure Y in our General Plan Update. Please consider the following: 
 
• 
Higher densities in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of reducing 
CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. Greater 
densities also allow for higher numbers of affordable units and more open space 
in the same area. This satisfies requirements for both social justice and regional 
economic needs. 
 
• 
The City  recently received its second letter from HCD stating that the San Mateo 
Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. The review letter from HCD 
cites serious flaws in the Site Inventory with respect to a great many of the sites’ 
suitability and capacity. This undercuts the claim that the city can move forward 
in the current Housing Element without serious consideration of either relaxing 
height limits imposed by Measure Y on an expedited basis to increase site 
capacity or else subjecting the R1 neighborhoods to potential upzoning. Please 
bear in mind that with the Builder’s Remedy, which is currently in play, San 
Mateo effectively has no enforceable zoning for proposed projects offering at 
least 20% affordable units. 
 
• 
Under the current circumstances we feel it is extremely misguided to 
eliminate  staff’s March 6 proposal for Residential High II land use designation. 
The city website states in a FAQ section on the General Plan that “at the very 
least, General Plan 2040 will need to ensure that enough land is zoned for 
housing for RHNA 2023-31”. Not only should Residential High II designation be 
retained but, if anything, height and density provisions should be extended and 
strengthened. 
 
• 
In the most recent opinion poll commissioned by the City, more than 60% of 
respondents last year indicated they favored higher densities and heights (up to 
12 stories).  
 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to: 
 
466 of 575

--- page 467 ---
1. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High 
II.  Now is not the time to get rid of these options. We need the flexibility to use 
these designations.  
2. Increase height limits for residential building to Residential High III for 12 stories 
in the downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
3. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
 
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Schneider 
 
467 of 575

--- page 468 ---
From: HOLLY HEWITT 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 11:06 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
Stop trying to undo measure Y.  
H H Hewit  
San Mateo  
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
468 of 575

--- page 469 ---
From: keanedm@gmail.com 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 9:11 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
Hello, 
 
I am surprised we are sƟll discussing development height limits. I assumed Measure Y is sƟll in eﬀect and 
we have already had meeƟngs to discuss these height limits but I will add my voice for honoring the vote 
that established Measure Y as the city rule.  
 
Thank you, 
Dennis Keane 
 
469 of 575

--- page 470 ---
From: Jon New 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 5:51 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: In favor of going 12+ stories 
 
I would like to see San Mateo consider accommodating 12 stories or more in our downtown area. This is 
a tremendous opportunity to ameliorate our housing supply shortage, especially ina walkable area like 
downtown. When people live near amenities like grocery stores, and restaurants, they don't need to 
drive as much. We already have precedent; there are several 10+ story apartments near the library.  
 
If we want to be a welcoming community, then let's take advantage of the opportunity and let's build 
some homes! 
 
Jonathan New 
San Mateo homeowner.  
 
470 of 575

--- page 471 ---
From: Jen Sprowls 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 8:51 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan - building height  
 
Hi, 
 
I am not supporƟve of providing a variance to Prop Y to allow 7 to 8 story buildings built. The master 
plan has not addressed how they are going to miƟgate the addiƟonal demand onparking, traﬃc, water 
supply, schools, outdoor space, hospitals, etc.  The ciƟzens of San Mateo have voted to keep height limits 
and this should be upheld.  
 
A majority of people are sƟll working remotely which will be coming to an end and traﬃc and parking 
issues will explode.  
 
A concerned resident of San Mateo of almost 20 years. 
 
Jen Sprowls 
 
 
 
 
471 of 575

--- page 472 ---
From: Bill Williams 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 3:52 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
When will the City of San Mateo prioritize housing to ease the jobs to housing 
imbalance? Negating Measure Y to accommodate developer interests over residential 
needs is inappropriate. 
 
The Trag's and Draeger's projects come to mind along with new Hillsdale Mall office 
proposals. Increased traffic and the displacement of current residents will occur. 
 
X Bill Williams, San Mateo 
 
472 of 575

--- page 473 ---
From: Laura Wood 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 6:46 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height Limits 
 
I am aghast why we are still discussing this.  I think the community of San Mateo has spoken at the 
voting box.  Please listen and remember you serve to represent their interests and not developer’s 
interests. 
 
Thank you. 
Laura E. Wood 
 
473 of 575

--- page 474 ---
From: Marty Jordan 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:48 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: in support of higher buildings and density 
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District and a member of the San Mateo Climate Action Team, to address 
the height and density limits under consideration at the Special Study Session on April 3rd. We wish to thank the 
council and staff for their recognition at the March 6th Special Study Session that we need to increase height and 
density limits over those allowed by Measure Y in our General Plan Update. We are asking that you consider the 
following: 
 
• 
Greater densiﬁcaƟon in areas close to public transit will have the beneﬁt of reducing CO2 emissions 
through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. Greater densiƟes also allow for higher numbers 
of aﬀordable units. This saƟsﬁes requirements for both social jusƟce and regional economic needs. 
 
• 
The City has recently received its second leter from HCD staƟng that the San Mateo Housing Element for 
this cycle is not in compliance. The review leter from HCD cites serious ﬂaws in the Site Inventory with 
respect to a great many of the sites’ suitability and capacity. This undercuts the claim that the city can 
move forward without serious consideraƟon of either relaxing height limits imposed by Measure Y on an 
expedited basis to increase site capacity or else subject the R1 neighborhoods to potenƟal upzoning. 
Please bear in mind that with the Builder’s Remedy, which is currently in play, San Mateo eﬀecƟvely has 
no enforceable zoning for proposed projects oﬀering at least 20% aﬀordable units. 
 
• 
Under the current circumstances we feel it is extremely misguided to eliminate  staﬀ’s March 6 proposal 
for ResidenƟal High II land use designaƟon. The city website states in a FAQ secƟon on the General Plan 
that “at the very least, General Plan 2040 will need to ensure that enough land is zoned for housing for 
RHNA 2023-31”. Not only should ResidenƟal High II designaƟon be retained but, if anything, height and 
density provisions should be extended and strengthened. 
 
• 
In the most recent opinion poll commissioned by the City, more than 60% of respondents last year 
indicated they favored higher densiƟes and heights (up to 12 stories).  
 
• 
No one has yet brought up what the consequences might be if a ballot measure to overturn Measure Y 
fails. 
 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to: 
 
1. Retain the high density alternaƟves ResidenƟal High II and Mixed Use High II.  Now is not the Ɵme to get 
rid of these opƟons. We need the ﬂexibility to use these designaƟons.  
2. Increase height limits for residenƟal building to ResidenƟal High III for 12 stories in the downtown core of 
San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train staƟons 
3. Increase height limits for residenƟal buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino corridor. 
4. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to pass a resoluƟon overturning Measure Y, 
candidly assess what this could mean for future compliance with the HCD, and entertain possible 
conƟngency plans. 
 
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
474 of 575

--- page 475 ---
Marty Jordan 
 
A point of view can be a dangerous luxury when substituted for insight and understanding. Marshall McLuhan 
 
 
475 of 575

--- page 476 ---
From: diana pettit <
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:57 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Item# 16 General Plan 2040 Review Council Direction on Land Use, Heights and Density 
Measure Y 
 
The General Plan of 2040 needs to add the Measure Y to continue the exclusion of 2 High off the 
table(agree to 8 stories with 2 more for density bonus). 
 
Since the Windy Hill property, Kiku Housing, and The Prometheus Trags Market development, the 
approval to exceed 2 High, additionally to  the original building permit adds the following problems: 
 
- Sidewalks not wide enough  
  for 2 way pedestrian traffic, 
  with wheel chairs, and 
  strollers. 
- Blocking of street  
  continium visionary from  
  other established retail 
  businesses(i.e.  
  West of Baldwin/B street). 
 -Safe Pedestrian crossings  
  at Caltrain tracks on 
  Railroad Avenues at 3rd,4th 
  and 5th Avenues.(west and  
  east directions. 
 -Office buildings with  
   Constant lighting "glare"  
   Into other "proposed 
   residental" spaces. 
-  Educational resources  
   needed for the San-Mateo/ 
   Foster City School District. 
-  SamTrans Transit ability to  
   "safely" drive down streets 
   with "parked" cars on either 
    side of the streets/bike  
    lanes.(S. Delaware/3rd  
    Avenue) 
 
Other reasons to not "exceeding" current building  
 heights is the many hours of 
 Continuance at Planning/     City Council meetings. 
 
This issue needs to be put  
 On the ballot for the "City of 
 San Mateo" residents. 
 
476 of 575

--- page 477 ---
Thank you. 
 
Diana Pettit 
 
 
 
 
477 of 575

--- page 478 ---
From: Anna Baciocco 
 
Sent: Friday, March 31, 2023 5:42:45 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Use Changes to 25th Avenue  
  
Hello,   
 
My name is Anna Baciocco.  I live on 25th Avenue between Hacienda and Isabelle, and was just greeted 
by a neighbor who shared detailed plans for a proposed increase in the height level maximum restriction 
on not only 25th Ave in the commercial zone, but also in the parking lot that is in the residential zone of 
25th Ave, and is across the street from my home.  
 
My family purchased this our home last year and some of the great appeals that drew us here were the 
quaintness of the neighborhood, relatively safe streets for our children (2 yo and one on the way) and 
age and character of the homes.  We are disheartened to hear that proposed changes to the zoning 
requirements could cause major changes to what was so important to us when buying our home. 
 
It is concerning to me that this information was provided to us from a concerned neighbor, and not our 
Counselman or notice from the City directly?  
 
I would like to know exact dates this is going to be discussed, debated, and voted on by the city counsel 
or any other board or committee meeting that would impact a final decision.  Please advise on these 
dates as soon as possible.  
 
My family plans on attending these meetings, and will be engaging with our neighbors regarding this 
plan. We would also appreciate and are requesting a full detail of the proposal that has been submitted, 
and a general outline of each council member's position on such issue. 
 
The overall project but more importantly certain elements of this development brought to my attention 
cause deep concern, as does the lack of communication with those these plans effect most. I understand 
the need for increased housing in this area and see the need for multifamily housing, however, I think 
that it needs to proceed with caution and be more thoughtfully carried out so that single family 
neighborhoods are not inundated with buildings that do not blend with the neighborhood.  A 5 Story 
tower with no parking in the middle of a residential zone is completely unacceptable.  
 
 
Best, 
 
Anna Baciocco 
 
478 of 575

--- page 479 ---
From: Dave Santos 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 6:26 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Proposed General Plan Use and heights -25th Ave Area 
 
  
  
Hi Adam:  
You are my City Council representative, and I am emailing to share my concern 
about a post I recently read on nextdoor about the City Council’s plans to develop 
the church parking lot at the corner of 25th and Hacienda.  
As a member of this community, I am concerned that I was not given an 
opportunity for input into this development. I am opposed to a development of 
this size because it does not fit with the surrounding community of single-family 
homes.   
Currently , the church parking lot has a multitude of uses, and where are people 
going to park for church services and activities not to mention for housing and 
office work if this parking lot is removed and the site developed?  
I acknowledge the state requirement to develop future housing but am concerned 
about the lack of process and the override of Measure Y passed by voters.   
If the council wants to override Measure Y, this needs to be put to a city-wide 
referendum and the development be a topic of further discussion.  
Thank you for your consideration in this matter.  
 
Sincerely.  
 
Dave Santos  
  
 
 
479 of 575

--- page 480 ---
From: John Tastor 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 2:40 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan - Housing Element 
 
Dear Council Member Lorraine: 
 
I am writing in support of the housing element of the General Plan Revision.  I want to emphasize that 
this support includes the 25th Avenue Corridor and the 25th & Hacienda Parking Lot. 
 
I am a 43-year resident of San MAteo, a board ,eber of the Hosuing Leadership Council, and an Elder of 
the Waypoint Church (fka First Presbyterian Church.). 
 
I am appalled by the falsehoods and half truths involving the Church property.  I have heard one 
statement that the church sold its parcel to the City which will develop it.  We are interested in the 
possibility of developing our property for housing, but have made no decisions.  We have been 
waiting for the General Plan revision to complete its process, as well as supporting the passage of State 
legislation concerning development of affordable housing church property. 
 
I intend to be at tomorrow evening's CC study Session 
 
Thank you, 
 
John Tastor 
 
 
480 of 575

--- page 481 ---
From: Val Armento <

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 12:18 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Item 16 General Plan Update

There is absolutely no reason for this item to have returned to the Council
agenda tonight, but for A. Lee’s creation of phony “confusion”. If she had
concerns about accuracy of the minutes, they should have been raised at the
time the minutes were considered, not over 5 hours later. Doesn’t the City
adhere to Robert’s Rules of Order? In over 40 years of working in local
government, I have never seen such disregard for basic operational
procedure (but then again, the mayoral circus should have been a warning).

Simple abuse of power, especially since Lee voted for and signed off on the
March 6, 2023 minutes. “Oh my God, I’m so tired” but she keeps talking...

Big difference between what is included in EIR (timely matter, already
decided) and what is surveyed (which will be decided upon later).

Interestingly enough, the March 6 meeting recording is not available on the
City’s website.

PS The audio in the conference room when members of the public are
speaking needs work.

481 of 575


--- page 482 ---
From: Sue Barizon 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:01 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Avenue - Land Use and Heights 
 
Attention Council Members, 
As a life long member of the 25th Ave. community (20 years on 23rd Ave, 50 years at 24th & Isabelle), I am 
whole heartedly opposed to a proposal to change land use designations, specifically, raising building height 
requirements to include the church parking lot at 25th Ave. and Hacienda.  I am opposed to a development of 
this size which does not reflect the single-family residences in our surrounding area. 
In a shared response from a neighbor. Councilmember Loraine stated, "The proposal to change these and 
other land use designations, for possible future development citywide, is part of the ongoing General Plan 
Update process. The city has had dozens of public meetings and workshops for this over four years (and more 
to come this year). You can find a comprehensive collection of documents, recordings of previous meetings 
and more at the official website for the General Plan Update:strivesanmateo.org.”  
I am most concerned about the lack of process and the override of Measure Y that was passed by the voters. 
I want to know what interest groups support overriding Measure Y to accommodate these proposals to turn 
our community into an overdeveloped, overcrowded, urban pothole. 
Thank you for your consideration in this matter.  
 
Sue Barizon 
 
 
 
 
482 of 575

--- page 483 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:13 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Proposed development on 25th Ave.  
 
Hello city council, 
I am a resident of the blossom Heath 25th Ave. area, I am very concerned about the new proposal to add 
high-rise buildings at the church parking lot and down the 25 th Ave  shopping area. 
Where was the public outreach? The lack of parking now is evident, cars are double parked, doing illegal 
U-turn’s. There are already back ups on El Camino Ave. and Hacienda. My driveway is conƟnuously being 
used to turn around to ﬁnd parking. Where are these new apartment dwellers going to park? I did not 
see that in the plans. 
 
Our community was clear with the passing of measure Y we do not want high-rises in our single family 
neighborhoods!! 
I am very concerned about the impact of the lack of sunlight, especially in the winter and the lack of 
privacy Thank You Barbara Bartels 25th Avenue resident  
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
483 of 575

--- page 484 ---
From: Ellis Berns <ellisbernsconsulting@gmail.com>  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:23 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Perry 
Hariri <phariri@miramarcapital.com> 
Subject: General Plan April 3, 2023 Study Session Measure Y 
Please find enclosed comments from Miramar Capital to be forwarded to the City 
Council for consideration for this evening's Study Session. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this email. 
Thank you. 
Ellis M. Berns 
Principal 
ebernsconsulting, LLC 
ellisbernsconsulting@gmail.com 
650-954-4952 (cell)
484 of 575

--- page 485 ---
SENT VIA E-MAIL
April 3, 2023

Amourence Lee, Mayor
And Members of the City Council
City of San Mateo
330 West 25" Ave.
San Mateo CA 94403

RE: STUDY SESSION April 3, 2023
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the City Council:

Miramar Capital is the owner of a 6 AC+ site located at 1500 Fashion Island Blvd (Bridgepoint
Office Park). As the City Council provides direction on Land Use Heights, Density, and
Measure Y this evening at its Study Session, Miramar Capital supports the land use designation
proposed for this property in the 2031 Housing Element as a residential Development
Opportunity with a general density of 100-200 units/acre (See Attached). Implementing the
General Plan Update land use designation of Mixed Use High II will produce between 608-1216
residential units with building heights ranging between 6-10 stories. We respectfully request that
the City Council give direction to staff to continue to pursue and analyze Mixed Use High I as
part of the General Plan Update in order to maximize densities that will result in economically
viable projects that dan deliver much-needed housing to the City.

Miramar is in the process of evaluating the financial viability of redevelopment of Bridgepoint
Office Park from commercial office to residential multi-family (Project). The Project concept
proposes about 890 residential units in three buildings, two eight-story buildings — 740 Units
Market-Rate (Studios 1-2 bedroom units) over a 2.3 level subterranean parking garage and one
five-story building. About 150 of the units (about 17%) are proposed as Affordable Housing
(Studios 1-3 bedroom units) over 1 level of raised podium parking.

We have met with staff and discussed our concept of a residential community, which would help
achieve the City’s Housing Element goals. However, despite the Housing Element and General
Plan Update’s high density land use designations, we are constrained because of the height and
density limitations imposed by Measure Y. In our discussion with staff, we did want to make it
clear that to achieve the optimal, desired density, an eight story building would be necessary.
This is the maximum number of stories possible for Type HI construction (five-stories wood-
frame over three-stories concrete), which is the highest density in today’s market conditions.
Taller Type I buildings would be cost prohibitive and unnecessary, while shorter buildings would
not achieve optimal and efficient density.

SMRH:4892-7288-329 1.2 -l-

485 of 575


--- page 486 ---
Miramar Capital strongly encourages the City Council to keep Mixed Use High I for
Bridgepoint Office Park in order to permit the redevelopment of this site to high density
residential. This redevelopment would help alleviate the City’s market rate and affordable
housing shortage and help implement the City’ Housing Element, while having no impact on
surrounding neighborhoods.

Thank you in advance and if you have any questions please feel free to contact me.

Sincerely
Perry Hariri
Managing Partner

MIRAMAR CAPITAL

4300 Stevens Creek Blvd. Suite 180
San Jose, CA 95129
phariri@miramarcapital.com

Enclosure

eG: Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director, CDD
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager

SMRH:4892-7288-3291.2 -2-

486 of 575


--- page 487 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 2031 HOUSING ELEMENT

ice Address: 1500 Fashion Island Boulevard
Zoning: Executive Office with Residential Overla -0.62/R
General Plan Designations: Executive Office

APN: Total Lot Size:
035-550-040 6.08 acres

Site Ownership: Consolidated

Max Allowable Base Densities: 50 units/acre (or 304 units)
State Density Bonus: 106 additional units (35% density bonus)
Proposed General Plan Base Density: 100-200 units/acre (or

608-1,216 units

Project Status: Potential Site for Housing Redevelopment

Existing Conditions:
Currently the site consists of two 3-story office buildings occupied by an employment agency, a consulting
group, Reflekton Inc, Checkbook, and Wuhoover & Co. The buildings were built in 1982. Surface parking
lots take up available space on the site such that the current FAR is 0.49, though zoning in this district
allows up to 0.62 FAR.

Development Opportunity:
A developer has expressed interest in potentially redeveloping the site. The Housing Element Adequate
Sites List estimates a realistic capacity of 273 units of housing for the site. However, the base zoning can
allow up to 304 units. Should the developer/property owner choose to utilize the state density bonus, the
development could produce up to 410 residential units, which is very feasible in either a mixed-use or
100% housing development given the size of the sites. Adoption of the General Plan Update’s land use
map will increase the base density of the site to between 608-1,216 units.

Site Constraints:
Staff has identified one potential constraint in that it is located adjacent to Highway 92, which has
potential air quality impacts due to airborne particulates. These impacts can be mitigated through
development design.

Proximity to Transit:
Located 1.5 miles of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and 1.9 miles from South EI Camino Real.

Page H-C-43

487 of 575


--- page 488 ---
From: Lisa Taner 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:55 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height Limits Re-Examined 
 
Mayor Lee, 
  
You have been tapping the hornet’s nest for so long, and now have fully kicked it. 
It cannot be that you think your constituents lack intelligence as they watch you on the dais, but this 
time, with your ‘confusion’ over the Council approved height limits for study, you must feel that your 
position of power allows you to do most anything. 
In your ‘confusion’ and desire to reopen this subject, it’s no wonder San Mateo residents are striving to 
recall you.  It’s yet another example, after observing your gyrations and manipulations of important 
matters, staff and your fellow council members, of your continual failure to actually represent the 
people of San Mateo. 
Everyone’s best guess is that your goal for tonight, in alliance with special interests, is to maximize the 
building heights for study and push for a “Do you like Measure Y?” resident survey.  Sadly, you are all 
too predictable, as is your sidekick, Councilmember Loraine. 
The disgust of your constituents should be loud and clear tonight.  Oh, what a tangled web you weave. 
  
With regret, 
Lisa Taner  
 
cc: City Council 
 
488 of 575

--- page 489 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Donald Bilteau 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 1:30 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Proposed General Plan 25th Ave 
 
Members San Mateo City Council, 
 
This proposed plan for the development of 25th Ave. area is one of the worst ideas I have ever seen 
proposed. 
Please stop trying to destroy residenƟal neighborhoods! 
 
Don Bilteau 
 
 
 
489 of 575

--- page 490 ---
From: Tom Brady 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 12:26 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Avenue Height Limits 
 
I strongly object to any changes to that which the City Council voted on several weeks ago.  Please STOP 
screwing around, - NO HIGHER LIMITS. 
 
Tom Brady, Sr. – 317 Portola Drive – San Mateo 
 
490 of 575

--- page 491 ---
From: Rochel Cookshoor <
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 9:39 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Against re-opening building heights 
 
Dear City of San Mateo 
 
I am a home owner in San Mateo. I am against re-opening matters already decided by Council earlier in 
the month in regard to building heights to study - since Council already voted against the highest heights 
option. 
 
I am concerned that Mayor Lee states the previous meeting Minutes were 'confusing’ - this seems 
manipulative and false - and has used this excuse to reopen what’s already been decided by Voters via 
Measure Y and Council. 
 
I am against a building higher than two stories at Hacienda and 25th. 
 
Please hear my voice. 
Regards - 
Rochel M. Cook 
 
 
491 of 575

--- page 492 ---
From: Pat Dunn 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:45 AM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Building Heights for New Planned Development 
 
Ms. Lee and other City Council members - Thanks to Ms. Lee's prompt response but it appears to answer 
someone else's email.  It does not address the issue I brought up in my email from this morning.  I've 
recopied my email directly below (in italics): 
 
Good morning.  I am a long time San Mateo resident.  My wife and I raised four children in San Mateo 
and we continue to live here as we like the location and the local communities.  I typically avoid any 
political issues but feel compelled to address Mayor Lee and others' blatant attempts to overturn 
Measure Y which was approved by citywide voters. Elected officials are supposed to implement the 
desires of their constituents, not attempt to circumvent or overturn them.  Why do five former mayors of 
San Mateo support the recall of Mayor Lee?  This, in itself, is a serious indictment of her continued 
behavior.   
 
Patrick Dunn 
 
On Mon, Apr 3, 2023 at 9:36 AM Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Ms. Dunn,  
Good morning, I hope this email finds you well, I appreciate your concerns raised about Measure Y and 
the church parking lot. We have received many inquiries spurred by a flier and Nextdoor post. The author 
is unknown, but I can verify it did not come from the City.  
 
To clarify any misunderstanding, the City has received no proposed redevelopment project applications 
for the church parking lot on 25th Ave. Furthermore, this is not City-owned land and the City has no 
authority to develop a project on this site. 
 
Measure Y is the law and can only be changed by majority vote of the electorate. However, if the City is 
unable to meet the statutory requirements to get a certified Housing Element by the State we could 
loose access to essential funding and local control of land use policy. The Builder's Remedy removes the 
City's ability to deny HAA projects and would override the heights and densities set by Measure Y.  
 
Right now, the City is mandated to zone for over 7,000 net new housing units in the next 8 years (RHNA 
Cycle 6 2023-2031). We will likely need to plan for 2.5X that number over the next 20 years (the timeline 
of the General Plan 2040). One of our challenges is that the State requires the City to zone for projected 
population growth, which could force increased heights and densities into neighborhoods under Measure 
Y. The General Plan 2040 community engagement process established designated Study Areas that 
concentrates growth along the transit corridor and commercial areas to protect the established 
neighborhoods.  
 
Our community is at a crossroads: do we support concentrating growth around commercial areas, jobs 
and transit OR would we rather it spread across the City and into neighborhoods? How do we address 
the housing crisis and support more affordable housing? Every affordable housing and climate change 
organization opposed Measure Y because density sprawl exacerbates traffic, pollution, demands on 
infrastructure, and constrains affordable housing production.  
 
These are the challenging decisions of our time and ultimately the voters (and State) will decide. Over 
these past 4 years, City Council has supported a robust community engagement process through the 
General Plan, including public workshops, meetings, pop-up events, and a statistically valid community 
492 of 575

--- page 493 ---
survey. For additional information about the General Plan Update 2040 process, please 
visit: https://strivesanmateo.org 
 
Thank you for raising your concerns and questions, your feedback is very appreciated.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Amourence Lee 
Mayor, City of San Mateo  
T: (650) 522-7522 x 6262 
M: (650) 477-8271 
Book Online Council Office Hours 
https://linktr.ee/amourencelee 
 
 
From: Pat Dunn 
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 9:21 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Building Heights for New Planned Development  
  
Good morning.  I am a long time San Mateo resident.  My wife and I raised four children in San Mateo 
and we continue to live here as we like the location and the local communities.  I typically avoid any 
political issues but feel compelled to address Mayor Lee and others' blatant attempts to overturn 
Measure Y which was approved by citywide voters. Elected officials are supposed to implement the 
desires of their constituents, not attempt to circumvent or overturn them.  Why do five former mayors 
of San Mateo support the recall of Mayor Lee?  This, in itself, is a serious indictment of her continued 
behavior.    
 
Pat Dunn 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
493 of 575

--- page 494 ---
From: Mike Germano

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:54 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: San Mateo General Plan and Height Limits

San Mateo City Council members,

| am disappointed that the issue of increased height limits in our city continues to be
raised in light of the last election and the passing of Measure Y by the citizens of San
Mateo.

The fact that the proposed land use and increased heights for our beloved 25th avenue
area are being considered contrary to what was recently voted upon by the residents is
very discouraging. Additionally I'm very disappointed that our new district 5 council
member has not specifically brought this to the attention to our neighborhood.

As representatives of the citizens of San Mateo, | respectfully ask that you represent the
building heights that residents have voted upon and passed, and not ignore our citizens.

Thank you,

Mike Germano

494 of 575


--- page 495 ---
From: georgette 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 1:42 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges 
<rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Building Heights/ CITY COUNDEL MIEETING 4/3/2023 
 
As a longtime resident who fought many years ago with the Beresford Hillsdale neighborhood 
association, and other San Mateo neighborhood associations along side Gary Yates,  in the early 90's to 
keep building heights in check in the city of San Mateo through Measure H, and later Measure P, it’s 
extremely discouraging to see that the present City Mayor, who obviously was not present in these 
important topics back then, intends to reopen this misguided matter.  She also most probably does not 
know of the residents’ and small business owners’ fight to keep rampant development from engulfing Bay 
Meadows Phase I and Phase II in the early 2000's.  
  
Ironically, all of the combined efforts of the City government and developers usually begin their 
persuasion of the public with the noble declaration that we need more affordable housing for all no matter 
which building project they were proposing.  The affordable housing argument was a sham.  The units, 
apartments, condos subsequently built were never really affordable no matter what the time period in 
which they were built. 
  
The development of bigger and higher edifices have, and will, continue to cause chaos on our present 
infrastructure—whether it be for our congested transportation, sewer or electrical systems and grids. We 
see what the results of an electrical system run by an inept company has produced this winter.  We see 
the conditions of our roads, levies and waterways where Public money can be better spent to improve. 
The repetition of saying, “this is the worst winter ever”, doesn’t placate a public who knows that keeping 
everything repaired, renovated and run responsibly should be one of the top priorities of governments—
not how many buildings we can squeeze into suburbs which have now become as sprawling as big cities, 
and have lowered the quality of life for all. 
  
We also see some of the recently erected buildings beginning to have vacancies (Genentech’s South San 
Francisco letting off a good number of employees).  Our local city governments who proclaim to be 
helping out its lower to middle class citizens have instead catered to the tech industry in an unbalanced 
and insincere way.  
  
Acting upon ideologies without  good, competent knowledge and experience of “how things work” will end 
up in bad and even sometimes “selfish” decisions? 
  
Height measures should be reduced, not increased. 
  
georgette guerra 
San Mateo 
 
495 of 575

--- page 496 ---
From: Anne’s Comcast

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:22 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: More outreach needed for 25th Ave. project.

To our San Mateo City council members,

| live within District 5 of San Mateo. | was born in San Mateo...went to Knolls, Abbott, Hillsdale, CSM and
am invested in my hometown.

Only recently have | been made aware of the large 25th. Avenue and adjacent church parking lot
projects that seem to be almost ready for acceptance by you.

What about all the neighborhood outreach that is always placed on your marketing ads when large
projects like this one have been proposed?

Didn’t we already vote to restrict heights with Measure Y? To override the voters | feel there should be
much more input than has been provided.

Please, do not move forward and approve anything on this proposal project until more of those who will
be personally impacted are heard from.

Thank you,
Emily Heinz.

496 of 575


--- page 497 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:02 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges 
<rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: April 3rd Study Session on Measure Y Again? 
 
Dear Council Members, 
 
 
We were stunned to learn the Council is having another study session on land use heights and how to 
address Measure Y in the General Plan update. The Council decided on these issues at the March 6 
meeting, and the notes were approved. The public confirmed their wishes to retain Measure Y in their 
comments at the March 6 meeting.  
 
The council has so many topics that need study sessions we are disappointed that the council is wasting 
time rehashing already-decided topics.  
 
We reiterate our support for maintaining Measure Y heights and densities. Please disregard the 
comments of non-residents asking for more height and density in San Mateo. The residents voted 
multiple times to limit heights and density. Please stop trying to overturn the will of the citizens.  
 
Thank you, 
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
 
 
497 of 575

--- page 498 ---
From: linda lara <
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 9:34 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y continued revuews 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Council Members, 
 
As a long time resident (1961) of San Mateo, a parent that raised my daughter here from kindergarten 
through junior college, and now a grandmother whose grandchildren live here and are going thru the 
San Mateo school system and recreation programs as well, I have respected and valued the community I 
live in. I and my family are highly invested in our community.  
 
I am asking that you please vote to keep Measure Y intact as the voters of San Mateo have already 
decided at the ballot box. 
 
My fellow San Matean's, neighbors, co-workers, business owners etc. have spoken and voted on the 
matter more than once. 
 
Yet, this issue keeps being re-hashed and manipulated to different degrees. 
 
Shouldn't the voters of San Mateo be able to have confidence that their vote to maintain not only the 
parameters of Measure Y, but other issues as well, is safeguarded, secure and matters? 
 
What will undoing this vote of the people do to our democracy on our local level? 
 
Respectfully, I ask you to uphold the voice of the people. 
 
Sincerely, 
Linda Slocum Lara 
North Central 
 
 
498 of 575

--- page 499 ---
From: Jeremy Levine <jlevine@hlcsmc.org>  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:14 PM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa 
Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob 
Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eloiza Murillo-Garcia 
<emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment on Agenda Item 16, General Plan Update 
 
Good afternoon San Mateo City Council (and staff!), 
 
I hope you and the entire San Mateo County are doing well. I am submitting the attached comment on 
behalf of HLC regarding the city's ongoing General Plan update.  
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Jeremy 
-- 
Jeremy Levine (he • him) 
Policy Manager 
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 El Camino Real 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
www.hlcsmc.org 
650.242.1764 
 
Facebook • Twitter • LinkedIn • Instagram • Become A Member! 
499 of 575

--- page 500 ---
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403
To the honorable San Mateo City Council,
The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County appreciates this opportunity to engage
the City of San Mateo on its General Plan. We have followed the process closely and value the
hard work by council and the city staff to put forward a plan that meets the housing needs of the
entire San Mateo community.
HLC wants to make sure that San Mateo has the maximum amount of flexibility to plan for
housing that meets the needs of all residents. Though the General Plan rezonings can help the
city make progress on housing, the current proposals to be studied in the EIR are quite modest.
The city is only proposing to study an increase of densities in pre-existing commercial and
multi-family areas. The highest heights currently proposed to be studied in the EIR, whether 8 or
10 stories, are quite low relative to the dwelling units per acre the city asserts can be built. (Our
general rule of thumb is one story every 10 du/ac.)
These rezoning proposals would be a huge missed opportunity for the city. The redevelopment
of major commercial areas such as Hillsdale and Bridgepoint presents a historic chance to
promote affordable housing near transit and jobs. San Mateo’s downtown would be much more
lively with a greater number of residents. And many of the city’s highest-opportunity
neighborhoods could accommodate new housing to promote access.
Furthermore, studying such low densities within such a narrow scope in the EIR may make it
difficult for the city to comply with other state laws, particularly housing element law. The city is
currently updating its housing element; the state department of Housing and Community
Development recently sent the city a letter with recommendations for improvements to its
housing plan.
In its most recent review letter, HCD writes that the housing element “must include specific
commitment to increase densities and adjustments to development standards. In addition, the
element should include a specific program to address the constraint of Measure Y.” The city
cannot afford to undershoot; to receive housing element certification, the city must address the
constraint posed by Measure Y as needed to make new housing development feasible.
There are two options to address that constraint and meet the state housing goals. The first is to
study increased densities above the Measure Y limit in specific locations–the city’s current
500 of 575

--- page 501 ---
strategy. The second option is to study modest density increases up to the Measure Y limit in
single family neighborhoods throughout the city. HLC supports both being studied, but we
expect rezoning in single family neighborhoods will be much more controversial than
overturning the poorly written, outdated Measure Y.
In addition, including higher densities for consideration in the city’s General Plan update EIR
would create opportunities for the city to better comply with two primary areas of housing
element law:
-
San Mateo’s site inventory relies on a number of large sites that likely require rezoning in
order to be made feasible for new development. However, the current constraints to
development on these sites may be too high to enable redevelopment for housing. By
increasing the densities studied in San Mateo’s housing element EIR, the city can
ensure it has the latitude necessary to remove constraints to development on its
opportunity sites.
-
Current proposals to study rezoning in San Mateo do little to Affirmatively Further Fair
Housing (AFFH), one of the most significant new requirements for a housing element.
AFFH law requires cities to promote affordable housing throughout the community rather
than concentrating it in certain areas. Unfortunately, San Mateo drafted its General Plan
rezoning proposals before it even considered AFFH issues. As a result, the General Plan
update EIR proposal doesn’t even consider allowing for more housing choices in the
city’s highest opportunity neighborhoods. In its most recent review letter, HCD writes
“The element should … identify further program actions that will be taken to promote
equitable quality of life throughout the community.” By continuing to study such a narrow
scope of rezoning, the city may hamper its ability to comply with the AFFH mandate and
promote fair housing throughout the community.
The housing element is not just a paper exercise; in fact, it is the only part of the General Plan
that is specifically regulated by the state. In the past year, HLC has sent the city three letters
outlining opportunities to approve the initial draft of its housing element: We sent two letters in
April and May of 2022 regarding the city’s first draft of its general plan, one focused primarily on
needs and constraints, the other focused on affirmatively furthering fair housing, the sites
inventory, and the goals, policies, and programs. We then sent a third letter on November 7,
2022 elaborating on our policy proposals, including a set of rezoning proposals we believe
would ensure that San Mateo can comply with all relevant state housing laws while also
promoting the most housing choices for the community.
Unfortunately, the city’s current General Plan rezoning proposals for study in the EIR present a
huge risk: The proposed density increases above Measure Y may not pass. As a result of this
uncertainty, HLC proposes the city study multiple options in its EIR: A primary plan that allows
for potential rezoning above the Measure Y limit in the city’s densest areas, and a contingency
plan that allows for potential rezoning throughout many of the community’s single-family
neighborhoods. If the city does not study a broad enough area within the EIR, then it risks legal
challenges that could undermine its ability to get a certified housing element.
501 of 575

--- page 502 ---
In order to provide the maximum flexibility to plan for the community’s housing needs, San
Mateo’s EIR should consider the broadest range of options possible. The city would benefit from
studying–and surveying–a much greater scope for its general plan EIR . We propose the EIR
include:
-
Continuation of the 10-story High II zoning designation
-
Implementation of a 12-story High III zoning designation for study at Hillsdale and
Bridgepoint sites, at least
-
Expand area being studied for upzoning to at least Mixed-Use Medium II standards to
include all neighborhoods within ¾ mile of CalTrans
-
Expand area being studied for upzoning to Mixed-Use Medium II standards to include all
sites owned by schools and faith institutions.
Remember, we’re not making any decisions right now. We’re creating options for the future
housing needs of San Mateo. Please direct staff to expand the rezoning options to be studied in
the city’s General Plan EIR and representative survey.
Thank you for your consideration,
Jeremy Levine
Policy Manager, Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
502 of 575

--- page 503 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:09 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Ave  
 
Council Member Loraine: 
It’s amazing that there is an enƟre neighborhood in the dark about the DraŌ General Plan.  At a very 
minimum we expect you, as our district representaƟve, to make decisions that support our 
neighborhood and to keep us informed of changes that profoundly impact us. If you think it is okay to 
plan for buildings that tower over single-family homes, displace small businesses, turn neighborhood 
streets into El Camino, then we have a bigger issue. 
The proposed heights and densiƟes for the church parking lot and for 25th Ave are completely 
inappropriate for our neighborhood. The Measure Y conﬂict map shows we are in the red zone 
indicaƟng an increase of over 30’ from current allowed heights. The actual potenƟal for height increases 
is 40’-50’ with density bonuses.  It is totally unacceptable to have these heights and accompanying 
densiƟes abuƫng single family homes. The church parking lot is currently designated R-1 @ 24’ height 
limit and it is surrounded on three sides by the same; it should remain that way to be compaƟble with 
the neighborhood. 25th Ave is currently designated as Neighborhood commercial with a 25’ height limit. 
It should remain that designaƟon unƟl Flores St. 
The DraŌ General Plan treats 25th Ave exactly same as it does El Camino. 25th Ave is not El Camino; it is a 
two-lane neighborhood street with parking on both sides. It does not always funcƟon as two-lane street 
since one lane is frequently occupied by delivery and construcƟon trucks, people dropping of kids, or 
running in to pick up a meal. People are driving at 5mph looking for the elusive parking spot and making 
U-turns if one is spoted on the opposite side. Do you honestly think this street can support retail with 
high-density housing of 4-6 stories (and potenƟally 8 stories with density bonuses) with limited parking? 
How much atenƟon or direcƟon have you given to the proposed land use for 25th Ave?  Have you seen 
this concept planned or constructed anywhere else? I would love to see it.  
Small business owners of 25th Ave will undoubtedly be displaced.   A land use change on 25th Ave will 
increase land values encouraging landowners to sell to developers.  Parcels will be combined to 
maximize development. Before construcƟon begins, small business owners will lose their space and 
must ﬁnd a new locaƟon. They are unlikely to return since rents will not be aﬀordable in the new 
buildings. Both neighbors and business owners lose.  
If the City General Plan allows for the current heights and densiƟes, developers will ﬁnd a way to build 
it.  UlƟmately, if the city wants a successful outcome in overturning Measure Y, the city needs the 
backing of residents. 
Thank you, 
503 of 575

--- page 504 ---
Lisa Maley 
 
 
 
504 of 575

--- page 505 ---
From: Jennifer Martinez 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:26 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 4/3 Agenda Item #16: General Plan Update & Height Limits 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing to express support for increased height and density in San Mateo's General Plan.  
 
As I have said before, I feel very fortunate to have lived in San Mateo for the past 9 years. However, I am 
acutely aware that were it not for significant luck and the fact that my household consists of 3 full-time 
working adults, we would not be able to afford to live here.  
 
So many who serve our community - essential workers, teachers, service providers, childcare providers, 
seniors, to name a few - either live in unaffordable (and too often, unsafe) conditions or travel long 
distances to work or visit family here. This is because the city has blocked opportunities to build housing 
that would benefit people at a range of income levels - namely, multi-family housing across the city.  
 
Every piece of land in our city is precious and should be used efficiently and effectively to house people 
at all income levels, create economic opportunities, and protect our environment. Current R1 zoning 
and height and density limits prevent us from doing this. Current restrictions against high-density 
housing development are a remnant of old racial and classist belief systems that should be rejected on 
moral grounds and should also be rejected on practical grounds.  
 
Despite what we might hear in city council meetings or in public comment, the vast majority of San 
Mateans (63% according to the True North survey conducted in 2022), support heights up to 12 
stories. Please take seriously that the majority of voices are not being heard in the public debates 
about this issue because they are too busy working and taking care of their families to participate in 
this kind of forum - a challenge made even more acute by high housing costs and restrictive 
community inclusion. 
 
With this in mind, I strongly encourage you to pursue changes to the General Plan that will allow for 
greater height and density so that we can adequately meet the housing and environmental challenges 
we face and so we can create the kind of vibrant, inclusive, sustainable San Mateo that so many current 
residents want and that future residents need.  
 
Thank you, 
Jennifer Martinez 
 
 
505 of 575

--- page 506 ---
From: Virginia McIsaac 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:31 AM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Building Heights 
 
In recent news it has shown that San Mateo County has ranked second in California for 
population decrease.  Which is a good reason for questioning the RHNA numbers requested 
by the state.  Keep our height limits and voters approved Measure Y intact.  I also would 
encourage a discussion about the RHNA numbers supplied by the state to be reexamined.  
Best Regards,  
Virginia McIsaac  
 
On Mon, Apr 3, 2023 at 10:15 AM Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Good morning, I hope this email finds you well, I appreciate your concerns raised about Measure Y and 
the church parking lot. We have received many inquiries spurred by a flier and Nextdoor post. The author 
is unknown, but I can verify it did not come from the City.  
 
To clarify any misunderstanding, the City has received no proposed redevelopment project applications 
for the church parking lot on 25th Ave. Furthermore, this is not City-owned land and the City has no 
authority to develop a project on this site. 
 
Measure Y is the law and can only be changed by majority vote of the electorate. However, if the City is 
unable to meet the statutory requirements to get a certified Housing Element by the State we could 
loose access to essential funding and local control of land use policy. The Builder's Remedy removes the 
City's ability to deny HAA projects and would override the heights and densities set by Measure Y.  
 
Right now, the City is mandated to zone for over 7,000 net new housing units in the next 8 years (RHNA 
Cycle 6 2023-2031). We will likely need to plan for 2.5X that number over the next 20 years (the timeline 
of the General Plan 2040). One of our challenges is that the State requires the City to zone for projected 
population growth, which could force increased heights and densities into neighborhoods under Measure 
Y. The General Plan 2040 community engagement process established designated Study Areas that 
concentrates growth along the transit corridor and commercial areas to protect the established 
neighborhoods.  
 
Our community is at a crossroads: do we support concentrating growth around commercial areas, jobs 
and transit OR would we rather it spread across the City and into neighborhoods? How do we address 
the housing crisis and support more affordable housing? Every affordable housing and climate change 
organization opposed Measure Y because density sprawl exacerbates traffic, pollution, demands on 
infrastructure, and constrains affordable housing production.  
 
These are the challenging decisions of our time and ultimately the voters (and State) will decide. Over 
these past 4 years, City Council has supported a robust community engagement process through the 
General Plan, including public workshops, meetings, pop-up events, and a statistically valid community 
survey. For additional information about the General Plan Update 2040 process, please 
visit: https://strivesanmateo.org 
 
Thank you for raising your concerns and questions, your feedback is very appreciated.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
506 of 575

--- page 507 ---
Amourence Lee 
Mayor, City of San Mateo  
T: (650) 522-7522 x 6262 
M: (650) 477-8271 
Book Online Council Office Hours 
https://linktr.ee/amourencelee 
 
 
From: Virginia McIsaac <
 
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:03 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Building Heights  
  
I was pleased to see that we were able to meet the states RHNA numbers without 
exceeding the city voter mandated height limits.   
I am concerned that while Council voted to approve that portion of the housing element, 
our Mayor has requested it to be reopened.  This is a waste of Council's time when we have 
more pressing matters that need to be addressed.   
I encourage our council to quickly resolve this issue by advising the Mayor that it was 
discussed and voted to approve the height limits as stated in the Housing Element of the 
General Plan.  
Best regards  
Virginia & Peter McIsaac  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
507 of 575

--- page 508 ---
From: t
<t
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:47 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Agenda Item 16 
 
Dear Mayor and City Council, 
  
Agenda items are often evaluated one at a time and in a vacuum (by themselves without regard on other 
items and/or prior decisions). I strongly believe that issues are dynamic and impact one another. Likewise 
solutions that seem reasonable or work can be used for other challenging issues. 
At the last City Council meeting (March 20th) this once again seemed present. We heard from the 
consultant regarding a potential storm water funding measure. A range of amounts were suggested. The 
consultant seemed to wisely advise we should focus outreach on a specific amount versus providing a 
range of amounts voters are willing to pay. At the end of the meeting it was suggested to bring back 
heights and densities by using a survey with a range of outcomes. 
 
Regarding base heights and densities, I clearly understood from the March 6th meeting there was 
consensus to remove High II as an option. I am not in favor of High II. Primarily because after 85 feet of 
height there are additional fire and life safety requirements that are triggered.  Assuming each floor is 10 
feet I do not see the difference between 85 and 120 feet as feasible to be built from a cost standpoint and 
would have difficulty being underwritten or need to use private sources of funding resulting in increase the 
cost. We say we want our workers to make more, how is this possible if more money is going to those 
who finance the project versus those who build them?  
 
Further it encourages existing landowners to exact a price as if the land were built at 120 feet. This would 
encourage speculation and a stubbornness that would be counterproductive to the housing needs of our 
City and the region (we may inadvertently create an imbalance of funding for projects in neighboring 
cities). My preference would be to have a standard that would result in a scenario where a project is more 
likely than not to be built. Government at all levels generally provides a framework, it would be more 
beneficial to provide examples of project that look good and can be built, while also allowing those who 
choose to invest in San Mateo a reasonable profit. Too much open-endedness creates uncertainty, and 
last time I checked the appetite for uncertainty was extremely low. A higher density will cause developers 
to sit on the sidelines and wait until certainty exists. If this happens we will likely fall short of our RHNA 
allocation. 
About the survey, we should only poll what we plan to place in the EIR (we should use the same advice 
the storm fee consultant advised) and refrain from presenting a menu of options. The survey should also 
focus on likely voters. I think it would be counter productive and divisive to place a range of options before 
the public, because one option may poll a certain way and be voted on differently in an election. Like it or 
not this was a citizen ballot measure, so if we would like changes, you will need to listen versus trying to 
find an outcome that is like a popularity contest.  
Thank you, 
 
Thomas Morgan 
 
508 of 575

--- page 509 ---
From: Michael Nash

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 12:26 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Public Outreach on Height Limits

Dear City Council::

Speaking for the neighborhood, the Baywood Neighborhood Association's Board
supports the City Council's decision to have H1 as the height limit for the General Plan. It
does not support further efforts to increase these height levels, as the real preference is
to leave heights where they are now. However, the aggressive number of housing units
that we have to meet to comply with State demands necessitates some increased
heights. These should be in limited cases in every instance and subject to sensible
planning limitations.

Regards,

Michael Nash
President

NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION

509 of 575


--- page 510 ---
From: Martha Park 
>  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:37 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height and density limits and Measure Y 
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Nash, and Council Members 
Loraine, Newsom Jr., and Hedges, 
We are writing ahead of the City Council Study Session tonight 
regarding height and density limits for the Public Review Draft 
General Plan. We would like to ask that the Council keep the 
direction aligned with Measure Y, as that is what the voters 
requested through the ballot box. 
It seems that the state has already allowed developers an 
additional two stories past the limits of Measure Y.  
Thank you for considering public comments. 
Martha and Stephen Park 
 
 
 
 
510 of 575

--- page 511 ---
From: Cynthia Prien 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:26 AM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan Heights and Densities for 25th Ave Area 
 
Mayor and Councilmembers, 
 
I  just learned of the proposed General Plan heights and densities for the 25th Avenue 
neighborhood. The City was derelict in its failure to provide neighborhood outreach specific to 
this proposal, particularly one that would incur such enormous and negative impacts to the 
neighborhood and businesses.  I am vehemently opposed to the heights and densities proposed 
for the church parking lot and for 25th avenue. 
 
It is beyond reason to contemplate: 1) building a tower (church parking lot) in the midst of 
single-family homes and where will church congregants park, and, 2) building 6-story, and 
potentially 8-story (density bonus) buildings along 25th avenue also backing up to single family 
homes.  What happened to transition?  This proposal treats 25th avenue as if it were El Camino! 
 
It appears there was no foresight or concern with regard to the impacts of such development.  As 
it is, 25th avenue has limited parking which overflows into the surrounding neighborhood.  How 
can the additional traffic and parking burden 
possibly be accommodated?  Additionally, if such development should come to fruition, you can 
be assured that 25th avenue small businesses will no longer exist and the wonderful character 
that many have enjoyed for decades will be lost. 
 
I am opposed to any ballot measure that includes the General Plan as currently written with 
regard to the 25the avenue area proposed development. 
 
Lastly, councilmembers please adhere to proper decorum by not cutting off or interrupting others 
and being succinct so as not to unnecessarily impose upon the time of others. 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
511 of 575

--- page 512 ---
From:

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:19 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Against re-opening building heights

| am a home owner in San Mateo. | am against re-opening matters already decided by Council earlier in
the month in regard to building heights to study - since Council already voted against the highest heights
option.

| am concerned that Mayor Lee states the previous meeting Minutes were ‘confusing’ - this seems
manipulative and false - and has used this excuse to reopen what’s already been decided by Voters via
Measure Y and Council.

| am against a building higher than two stories at Hacienda and 25th.

Please hear my voice.

Hollis Shoor

512 of 575


--- page 513 ---
From: l watanuki 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 10:40 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; lwatanuki6@gmail.com 
Subject: Comments for April 3, 2023 City Council MeeƟng - Item 16 - General Plan Update 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the City Council, 
 
I atended the 3/6/23 meeƟng and agree with decision to remove the ResidenƟal and Mixed Use H2 
category from the General Plan.     
 
There will be 2 stories added to H2 category for Density Bonus and 12 stories buildings would bring more 
shadows and block the sunlight for the pedestrians and businesses.  We will have similar impacts with 10 
story buildings.  According to residents the new taller glass buildings generate more heat and reﬂecƟve 
glare during the day and more light impacts at night for a residenƟal neighborhood.   
 
Please stay with the decision made on 3/6/23 in the recorded minutes and remove the H2 category.  
 
As residents we have supported Measure Y heights and densiƟes and it has served us well.  With 
Measure Y aﬀordable housing is spread equitably around all neighborhoods to avoid targeƟng speciﬁc 
neighborhoods.   
 
Thank you for your consideraƟon.  
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
 
 
513 of 575

--- page 514 ---
From: Thomas Woolway 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 12:34 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Tonights meeƟng 
 
 
My name is Tom Woolway owner of the property at 2405 Hacienda.  Is the board going to discuss the 
building height proposal for 25 Ave and the Church parking lot?  Please let me know.  If so please add me 
to to the sign up sheet to speak before the Council.  Regards Tom Woolway Sent from my iPhone 
 
514 of 575

--- page 515 ---
From: Sean Lacson 
>  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:00 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 4/3 Meeting - Rejected Housing Element 
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 2 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration at the Special Study 
Session on April 3rd. We wish to thank the council and staff for their recognition at the March 
6th Special Study Session that we need to increase height and density limits over those allowed 
by Measure Y in our General Plan Update. We are asking that you consider the following: 
 
• 
Greater densification in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of 
reducing CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban sprawl. 
Greater densities also allow for higher numbers of affordable units. This satisfies 
requirements for both social justice and regional economic needs. 
 
• 
The City has recently received its second letter from HCD stating that the San 
Mateo Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. The review letter from 
HCD cites serious flaws in the Site Inventory with respect to a great many of the 
sites’ suitability and capacity. This undercuts the claim that the city can move 
forward without serious consideration of either relaxing height limits imposed by 
Measure Y on an expedited basis to increase site capacity or else subject the R1 
neighborhoods to potential upzoning. Please bear in mind that with the Builder’s 
Remedy, which is currently in play, San Mateo effectively has no enforceable 
zoning for proposed projects offering at least 20% affordable units. 
 
• 
Under the current circumstances we feel it is extremely misguided to 
eliminate  staff’s March 6 proposal for Residential High II land use designation. 
The city website states in a FAQ section on the General Plan that “at the very 
least, General Plan 2040 will need to ensure that enough land is zoned for 
housing for RHNA 2023-31”. Not only should Residential High II designation be 
retained but, if anything, height and density provisions should be extended and 
strengthened. 
 
• 
In the most recent opinion poll commissioned by the City, more than 60% of 
respondents last year indicated they favored higher densities and heights (up to 
12 stories).  
 
• 
No one has yet brought up what the consequences might be if a ballot measure 
to overturn Measure Y fails. 
 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to: 
 
515 of 575

--- page 516 ---
1. Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High 
II.  Now is not the time to get rid of these options. We need the flexibility to use 
these designations.  
2. Increase height limits for residential building to Residential High III for 12 stories 
in the downtown core of San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
3. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
4. Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to pass a resolution 
overturning Measure Y, candidly assess what this could mean for future 
compliance with the HCD, and entertain possible contingency plans. 
 
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sean Lacson 
 
516 of 575

--- page 517 ---
From: Lisa Taner 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 11:55 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height Limits Re-Examined 
 
Mayor Lee, 
  
You have been tapping the hornet’s nest for so long, and now have fully kicked it. 
It cannot be that you think your constituents lack intelligence as they watch you on the dais, but this 
time, with your ‘confusion’ over the Council approved height limits for study, you must feel that your 
position of power allows you to do most anything. 
In your ‘confusion’ and desire to reopen this subject, it’s no wonder San Mateo residents are striving to 
recall you.  It’s yet another example, after observing your gyrations and manipulations of important 
matters, staff and your fellow council members, of your continual failure to actually represent the 
people of San Mateo. 
Everyone’s best guess is that your goal for tonight, in alliance with special interests, is to maximize the 
building heights for study and push for a “Do you like Measure Y?” resident survey.  Sadly, you are all 
too predictable, as is your sidekick, Councilmember Loraine. 
The disgust of your constituents should be loud and clear tonight.  Oh, what a tangled web you weave. 
  
With regret, 
Lisa Taner  
 
cc: City Council 
 
517 of 575

--- page 518 ---
From: Sue Barizon

Sent: Sunday, April 2, 2023 2:12 PM

To: Adam Loraine <aloraine @cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: 25th Ave Area-Proposed General Plan Land Use & Heights

Councilmember Loraine,

My husband and | are opposed to the construction of high density housing (4-7 stories) at the church
parking lot on the corner of 25th & Hacienda.

| could go on and site all the usual objections to such a preposterous scheme but I’m it appears you’ve
heard them all before and have chosen to

ignore them. You may have put the machinery in place for this assault on our neighborhood but we will
be heard.

Let us simply say that it’s WRONG. We know it. Our neighbors know it. The City knows it but most
importantly, YOU KNOW IT.

Steve and Sue Barizon

San Mateo, CA 94403

518 of 575


--- page 519 ---
From: Pam Mills Casey 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:40 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please uphold Measure Y - April 3 meeƟng.  
 
City council members, and San Mateo City Mayor- 
 
I am wriƟng to express my conƟnuing support  for measure Y  and its dictates on limiƟng height and 
density for our growing downtown. San Mateo is clearly ‘under construcƟon’ at the present Ɵme, and 
we must abide by the expressed will of the voters. 
 
I have writen before to express my ongoing support of the passage of Measure Y and simply wanted to 
reiterate it again at this Ɵme. 
 
Thank you for listening to the voters, and for not atempƟng to overturn their expressed desire. San 
Mateo is thriving, and does not need the addiƟon of more high rise high density buildings in our core. 
Measure Y should not be ignored.  
 
Respecƞully submited,  
 
Pam Mills Casey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
519 of 575

--- page 520 ---
From: William Cendak 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:55 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th & Hacienda 
 
Dear Council members, 
 
I can't believe your gall wanting to construct a 7 story building in a residential area. 
 
You people are completely out of control! 
 
How about we place a 7 story building next door to your residence? 
 
What's good for the goose is good for the gander, right? 
 
Wake up! 
 
W. J. Cendak 
 
520 of 575

--- page 521 ---
From: Linda Tribuzi 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:09 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 25th Avenue general Plan 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing to voice my concerns about plans for building developments in San Mateo.   
  
I have been a resident of W 25th Avenue since 1996.  I learned about a plan indicating the parking lot at 
the corner of W 25th and Hacienda can or will be built up to 7 stories, and 25th Avenue from Hacienda to 
El Camino can or will be built up to 8 stories.  After numerous neighbors started exchanging information 
about this within the last few days it is clear we need more information.  After reviewing emails, I now 
understand this would potentially be in the general plan (no building plans in progress at this time).  Also, 
just learned . . . the staff (I assume this is planning staff?) will recommend the church parking lot be 
amended to be classified as residential Low II (2-4 story height range).   
 
Please see below for concerns about this:   
•       The fact that a lot of information is being shared and some of it not updated should raise a red flag to all 
City Council members that citizens need better and summarized information to be sent to them 
proactively on the topic of building in our neighborhoods. 
•       Please do not dismiss this as nothing at this time because the City has received no proposed 
redevelopment project applications for the church parking lot, and this is not City-owned land and the City 
has no authority to develop a project on this site.  Even though building is not happening now, we do not 
want these height limits included in the general plan.  This opens the door to have this building happen in 
the future.   
•       Even with the new information that the recommendation for the church parking lot is Low II (2-4 story 
height), I believe this is still too high as this is in the middle of a residential neighborhood.  The height 
recommendation should be 1 or 2 story single family home as new buildings should be compatible with 
the neighborhood.   
•       Is parking included in the plan?  If not, where will the residents, church goers, and shopper’s park? There 
is already an issue from overflow parking into the neighborhoods from the lack of parking on 25th Ave. 
How will a revitalized retail area succeed without parking?  
•       What happened to Measure Y?  Why are changes being made after the majority voted for this?  The 
citizens of San Mateo voted for Measure Y and against the higher height options.  
•       I support growth of our community while preserving what we have.  We should invest in our local 
businesses and prioritize smart development without leaving citizens who have worked hard for their 
current communities and neighborhoods to feel abandoned or want to move out of this area.  
  
Lastly, I see this topic on the agenda for the April 4th city council meeting as the last agenda item (#16).  A 
topic as important as this should be one of the first agenda items.  We have seen some of these city 
council meetings run long and it is not possible for some citizens to be available at the end of a very long 
meeting to share their feedback.  As an alternative, this topic should be discussed at a separate special 
meeting that has an agenda of only this topic and time for public comments. 
  
Thank you, 
Linda Tribuzi 
 
521 of 575

--- page 522 ---
From: Lisa Vande Voorde 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:43 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: The Outcome of the 3/6/23 City Council Meeting Should Stand 
 
Dear City Council Members, 
 
Please accept the following as public comment for 
tonight's (4/3/23) City Council meeting. 
 
I've spent the entire day wondering why we are re-hashing 
TONIGHT what was ALREADY DECIDED at the 3/6/23 
City Council meeting.  Why are we re-hashing it? 
Because, at the next City Council meeting on 3/20/23, 
Mayor Lee suddenly claimed she was "confused" about 
what was decided upon at the 3/6/23 meeting.  She 
thought the minutes of the 3/6/23 meeting didn't reflect 
what was actually agreed upon.  So, I re-watched a lot of 
the 3/6/23 meeting today to confirm my own 
understanding, and Zach Dahl was quite specific at the 
end of that agenda item in recapping what the input was 
from the City Council.  And it was to take Residential-HII 
and Mixed Use-HII off the table and off the General 
Plan.  Zach paused to confirm that was the understanding, 
and not one City Council member said anything to the 
contrary.  Respectfully, Mayor Lee, THAT was the time to 
respond to Zach and say that was not your 
understanding.  And if you were confused about what was 
put in the minutes, you could have simply re-watched the 
video; but of course, you know that.  
 
522 of 575

--- page 523 ---
It is not appropriate to re-agendize a discussion that has 
already been agreed upon; maybe perhaps because you 
had second-thoughts, or more likely because you felt 
pressure from special interests groups and/or developers 
like Bohannon.  You took your fellow council members and 
staff by surprise by bringing this up at the 11th hour (way 
past midnight), and you refused to take "no" for answer 
and pushed your agenda through by insisting that you saw 
"three heads nodding in approval" of re-agendizing, and 
also interrupting and talking over Councilmember Nash 
who had some very valid points you didn't want to hear. If 
you think San Mateo residents aren't paying attention to 
these shenanigans, I assure you that we are. 
 
Because you don't like the outcome of an issue does not 
mean you can re-hash it.  Please don't waste our 
time.  But here I go again, having to write yet another letter 
to the City Council, expressing my SUPPORT of what was 
agreed upon at the 3/6/23 City Council meeting -- 
specifically, eliminating the Residential High II and Mixed-
Use High II categories from the Draft General Plan.  That 
is what you agreed to, and that should be the outcome of 
tonight's 4/3/23 City Council meeting as well. 
 
But since you have re-opened that discussion, I want to 
express my complete opposition to the General Plan 
development proposed for 25th Ave. and the church 
parking lot.  Those heights and densities are way out of 
scale for a residential area of one to two story homes and 
businesses.  Most neighbors I have spoken with are 
523 of 575

--- page 524 ---
completely outraged with what this General Plan would 
allow on 25th Ave, and I feel the same.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Lisa Vande Voorde 
 
--  
 
 
524 of 575

--- page 525 ---
From: Tomislav Vranjes 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 2:54 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Reject Housing Feasibility for 194 W 25th Ave and Adjacent Parking Lot 
 
Good day Councilmember Loraine and San Mateo City Council, 
  
I am writing to express my strong opposition to the ongoing planning which would allow for the 
potential construction of commercial housing on 194 W 25th Ave and the adjacent parking lot.  
  
Bringing large commercial housing developments to 25th Avenue will irreparably destroy the peace and 
wellbeing of those of us who live in the immediate area. As you know this is a neighborhood filled with 
single family residences, most of which are two or fewer stories tall. Introducing housing towers would 
inflict multiple hardships on the residents directly adjacent to them.  
  
1.     Sunlight  
a.     The height of the buildings which would be allowed under this review would cast the 
neighboring single-family residences into shadow for a substantial portion of the day.  
b.     Not only would this drastically impact the quality of life for those residents, but it 
would also decrease property values.  
c.      The lack of direct sunlight would also impact the efficiency of any current or future 
solar panel systems installed on these homes. 
  
2.      Traffic/Parking Congestion & Crime 
a.     While I understand the parking lot is the private property of Waypoint Church the 
reality is that it is utilized as a critical piece of infrastructure by the adjacent community.  
b.     There has never been enough parking to support the plethora of small businesses on 
25th Ave. The parking lot supplements their ability to service customers and decreases 
the impact of this traffic on the neighboring residents.  
c.      Even now, 24th Ave. and the neighboring streets are difficult to navigate with the 
number of vehicles parked on the street. Often only a single vehicle at a time can be 
driving with any oncoming traffic needing to pull to the side to allow for them to pass. 
The potential addition of dozens or hundreds of housing units would exacerbate this 
problem beyond what can be tolerated for a residential neighborhood.  
d.     The Farmer’s Market and Food Bank Distribution serve as a small preview of the 
problems that would occur should these types of structures be permitted. Over the past 
several years our vehicles parked on 24th Ave have been struck five times during these 
events resulting in damage ranging from a full sideswipe up the entire driver’s side of a 
vehicle to the loss of multiple mirrors. I know multiple neighbors have suffered similar 
damages. These issues would only grow worse with even more vehicles in the area.  
525 of 575

--- page 526 ---
e.     More vehicles mean more targets. I have already had catalytic converters stolen 
from two of our vehicles in the past three years. The increased use of street parking that 
these developments would bring will only incite further vehicle crime in the area.  
  
3.     Impact to Families and Children 
a.     The parking lot in its current form has been used by countless families in the area as 
a local park of sorts and continues to be used in this way today. 
b.     I grew up on 24th Ave and spent the first 21 years of my life here. My most precious 
memories were of my father Stanko Vranjes teaching me how to ride a bike when I was 
just starting school. After living out of state and out of the country for work I moved 
back to 24th Ave in 2019 to care for my father who sadly passed away of cancer in 2021 
during the height of the pandemic. Even as an adult I made memories in that parking 
lot. It served as a perfect place for me to help my father take short walks using his 
walker to keep him as fit as possible during chemotherapy and as he slowly began to 
decline. Getting him in and out of a car to take him to a real park was too difficult and 
the sidewalks were too narrow for him to walk and still had me supporting him on the 
side. Using the parking lot also allowed us to easily isolate ourselves from others as 
COVID would have proved deadly for my father. 
c.      The parking lot is in view of my front porch and every single day I can watch families 
both old and new creating those invaluable lifelong memories. Allowing the 
development of the parking lot would violate the unspoken understanding that the 
community has formed with the Church over past decades. The residents tolerate the 
increased traffic of the church and its events (farmers market, food drive, funerals, etc.) 
and in exchange the parking lot provides the community with supplemental parking for 
the businesses on 25th Ave. as well as a small, private, recreational space for the local 
families and their children to enjoy.  
  
There is no future in which these commercial buildings can be constructed in this neighborhood without 
depriving existing residents and future generations of the incomparable joy of living here. Please, 
remove these properties from consideration for future development and ensure that they can never be 
considered for anything more than single family residences. 
  
Thank you for your time and attention, 
-        Tomislav Vranjes 
  
 
526 of 575

--- page 527 ---
From: Michael 
  
Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:42 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Council Meeting 4/3/23 Item #16 
 
Mayor Lee and Councilmembers - I'm writing in response to item #16 aka "Groundhog Day".  
 
Mayor Lee, you wonder why there is an effort underway to recall you? Well, it's stunts like this, for 
starters. The recall accuses you of dishonesty and lack of integrity - all on full display here. You ambush 
the council at roughly midnight last week that you're suddenly unclear about the outcome of the vote 
on heights and densities and conducting a survey. This despite a.) there being a video recording you 
could easily have referenced, b.) a transcript of said video, and c.) your presence in said meeting. Oddly, 
I think this is the first time in your 4+ years your memory seems to have failed you on something that 
was pretty clear to basically everyone else. So let's call it what it is - you didn't like the outcome, so you 
want a redo. One where you can rally special interests and supporters and use that to re-legislate to get 
your desired outcome. Honesty would be at least owning up to that. Integrity would mean you handle 
results that aren't in your favor respectfully and gracefully. Again, you've failed San Mateo on both 
counts. 
 
With regards to tonight's meeting - this should be short. Reaffirm the existing decision to eliminate H2 
from consideration. We have no idea what the next RHNA cycle will bring and there are serious 
pressures on office and housing. We have sufficiently zoned for this cycle. This is again, well-covered 
territory. 
 
With regards to any "survey" on Measure Y and ballot language - you cannot call the survey "statistically 
valid" or anything like that - it's a loaded term and we all know that will be used to give it legitimacy it 
may not deserve even before any data is collected. Secondly, we've already done a statistically valid 
survey recently - the 2020 election barely two years ago now - where 23,000 voters affirmed their desire 
to continue Measure Y. Yes, we will need a ballot measure, and can survey the language that might be 
used, but this survey if it is to have any validity, MUST be ONLY LIKELY SAN MATEO VOTERS. This cannot 
be some free for all where every special interest in and out of San Mateo gets to weigh in. They won't be 
voting on the measure. 
 
Residents shouldn't have to be constantly vigilant to your antics, and shouldn't have to keep dropping 
everything to write letters, inform neighbors, and attend meetings - we have better things to do with 
our time and energy. Do better, Mayor Lee. We're watching, listening, and will be voting in force. 
 
- Michael Weinhauer 
 
 
 
527 of 575

--- page 528 ---
From: Dianne Whitaker

Sent: Monday, April 3, 2023 3:14 PM

To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; rnewsom@cityofsnamateo.org; Adam Loraine
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)

<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: April 3, 2023 City Council Meeting - Item No. 16

San Mateo Mayor and Council Members —

Please find attached my comments for tonight’s City Council meeting regarding Land Use
Heights and Densities and Measure Y (Agenda Item No. 16).

Thank you for your time and service.

-Dianne

Dianne Whitaker

528 of 575


--- page 529 ---
DIANNE WHITAKER

April 3, 2023

Amourence Lee, Mayor

Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor

Rob Newsom, Jr., Council Member
Rich Hedges, Council Member
Adam Loraine, Council Member
City of San Mateo, California

RE: April 3, 2023 San Mateo City Council Meeting
Agenda Item 16: General Plan Update — Review City Council Direction on Land Use
Heights and Densities and Measure Y

Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Councilmembers Hedges, Newsom Jr., and Loraine:

At tonight’s City Council meeting, please re-confirm your intentions from the March 6, 2023 City
Council Study Session regarding height and density ranges within the General Plan Update;
which you subsequently confirmed on March 20, 2023 when you approved the minutes from

the March 6, 2023 City Council meeting.

Specifically, you removed the Residential and Mixed Use High 2 (H2) classification from Land
Use Options in the General Plan Update.

How many times do the registered voters in the City of San Mateo have to express their desire
to NOT see 12-story buildings in our town?

Thank you for listening.

Sincerely,

Diamne R Whitaker
Proud Resident of North Central San Mateo

529 of 575


--- page 530 ---
From:
Vikas Maturi
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Eight stories is not enough
Date:
Monday, April 3, 2023 5:33:58 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I'm writing today to share my opposition to the decreased maximum height densities proposed
in the General Plan. 
Prior to March 6, 2023, the General Plan update proposed significant rezoning in the city’s
commercial areas and provided for building heights of up to 10 stories in some locations.
Since the city council voted to further decrease the maximum height in the General Plan to 8
stories.
Despite what we might hear in city council meetings or in public comment, the
vast majority of San Mateans (63% according to the True North survey
conducted in 2022), support heights up to 12 stories. Please take seriously that
the majority of voices are not being heard in the public debates about this issue
because they are too busy working and taking care of their families to participate in
this kind of forum - a challenge made even more acute by high housing costs and
restrictive community inclusion.
Eight stories is a squandered opportunity at best. It puts an unnecessary
stranglehold on our ability to increase the housing stock and push back against an
ever-worsening affordability problem. These data points from the city’s housing
element reinforce how necessary additional housing is in our community:
Home prices in San Mateo increased 115% from 2010 to 2020.  As of Q4 in
2022, the median home price in San Mateo was $2 million.
Rental prices increased by 74% from 2009 to 2019. 
The number of homes in San Mateo increased 3.6% from 2010 to 2020, which
is below the growth rate for San Mateo County and below the growth rate of the
region’s housing stock.
The jobs-household ratio in San Mateo increased from 1.17 in 2002 to 1.45 in
2018.
Every piece of land in San Mateo is precious and needs to be used efficiently to
house people at all income levels, create economic opportunities, and protect
our environment. Current restrictions against greater height and density prevent
this. 
530 of 575

--- page 531 ---
Thank you for your consideration. 
Vikas Maturi
531 of 575

--- page 532 ---
From:
Todd Struble
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Fwd: Neighbor on 23rd & Hacienda re: Proposed GP and Heights
Date:
Monday, April 3, 2023 9:36:17 PM
Dear Mr. Loraine and City Council: 
I have become aware of the adjustments for height and density outlined in the proposed City
of San Mateo General Plan.  I am 63 years old and currently living at 200 23rd Avenue (since
1993). I am a 3rd generation resident of San Mateo and very familiar with how our city has
grown over the course of my life.  
I have had the opportunity over the last 40+ years to see our city evolve to accommodate
growth in both industry as well as population.  While I support many of the projects that help
us meet our objectives for reasonable and necessary planning, it deeply concerns me how
meeting compliance guidelines from the State force the City of San Mateo to "plan" for the
future (in record time) while potentially sacrificing the long, rich history of our great city.  
I support our transportation corridor.  I support our development of Bay Meadows and the
housing it has created.  I support the commercial development of office complexes that have
brought many high tech businesses to our City.  I support the affordable housing initiatives
that help our distressed citizens.  I do not, however, support raising our historic San Mateo
neighborhoods into high rise, high density metros just because there happens to be a parking
lot at the corner of 25th and Hacienda.  
Sorry for being so blunt, but I am very disappointed that the 2023 proposed General Plan
incorporates significant height and density zoning changes which seem motivated by the need
to meet CA State compliance requirements rather than what reasonable and appropriate for our
City.  Again, I don't oppose growth.  I oppose "growth at any (irreversible) cost."  I also
oppose making long term commitments during times of uncertainty where planning is
especially difficult.  Let's practice judicious caution, please, especially when it comes to
affecting the core of our community.  
There are many practical reasons that the plan for our neighborhood doesn't make sense:
parking, congestion, unbalanced fit to existing structures, adding to what is already
acknowledged as a traffic corridor between HW92 and Hillsdale Blvd, and more.  To me,
however, the most important element is that there are many options to continue our progress
along El Camino, the CalTrain corridor,  Delaware Ave and more without performing radical
change to our neighborhood surrounding 25th Ave.  
The City of San Mateo has always documented it's core values and acted accordingly to stand
up for preserving our history and putting community first. Our community around 25th
Avenue has long been a part of the original San Mateo, just like our beautiful downtown. I ask
for your voice to please help us preserve our 25th Ave. community, for the benefit of all who
live and visit our beautiful City of San Mateo.  
Please reject the proposed General Plan height and density changes which will affect the 25th
Ave community, West of Flores.  
532 of 575

--- page 533 ---
Thank you,
Todd Struble
e:

533 of 575


--- page 534 ---
From:
L. Eberhart
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); General Plan
Subject:
General Plan - City Height limits
Date:
Monday, April 3, 2023 5:30:33 PM
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Members of the San Mateo City 
Council,
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 2 and a member of the San Mateo 
Climate Action Team, to address the height and density limits under consideration at 
the Special Study Session on April 3rd. We wish to thank the council and staff for 
their recognition at the March 6th Special Study Session that we need to increase 
height and density limits over those allowed by Measure Y in our General Plan 
Update. We are asking that you consider the following:
Greater densification in areas close to public transit will have the benefit of 
reducing CO2 emissions through reduced travel distances and less urban 
sprawl. Greater densities also allow for higher numbers of affordable units. This 
satisfies requirements for both social justice and regional economic needs. 
SHORT bus rides from Caltrain will complement residents desire to travel 
door to door via mass transit.
The City has recently received its second letter from HCD stating that the San 
Mateo Housing Element for this cycle is not in compliance. San Mateo 
effectively has no enforceable zoning for proposed projects offering at least 
20% affordable units AND will be at the mercy of developers.
Under the current circumstances we feel it is extremely misguided to eliminate  
staff’s March 6 proposal for Residential High II land use designation. 
Based on the above considerations, we strongly urge the City Council to:
1. 
Retain the high density alternatives Residential High II and Mixed Use High II.  
2. 
Increase height limits for residential building to Residential High III for 12 stories 
in the downtown core NORTH of Cal-Train stations. I am seeing a lot of 5 
story buildings going into downtown without any setbacks from the street. 
I have not seen any wind or daylighting in the GENERAL PLAN for 
534 of 575

--- page 535 ---
downtown. Eating outside or meeting for coffee outdoors is part of the 
charm of a wonderful downtown. YOU will not want to do that on 4th street 
next to the Draegers new building. PLEASE be aware of where you are 
densifying and look to San Carlos and Burlingame for wider streets, open 
pedestrian streets and plenty of sun and deciduous trees.
3. 
Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor.
4. 
Openly discuss the consequences for failure by the city to pass a resolution 
overturning Measure Y, candidly assess what this could mean for future 
compliance with the HCD, and entertain possible contingency plans.
Thanks again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion.
Sincerely,
Leane Eberhart,
San Mateo resident and Architect
535 of 575

--- page 536 ---
From:
Olivia Moir
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Adam Loraine
Subject:
Proposed apartment buildings on 25th avenue
Date:
Monday, April 3, 2023 6:24:04 PM
To whom it may concern,
In regards to the apartment buildings in talks to go up on 25th avenue, why would you think this is a good idea??
Where are people supposed to park? It’s already a nightmare to park anywhere in a three block radius so you are
going to make it more of a nightmare. Why would anyone rent to live there at that point? I bet most of the
apartments would be empty for a long time because you won’t be able to attract anyone to live there.
Knocking down all of 25th avenue is also a terrible idea because you are kicking out businesses who have been there
for decades. Where are those businesses supposed to go if everything is apartment buildings? There’s already a
limited amount of things to do in San Mateo to begin with so why would you bring down the number? San Mateo is
boring let’s be honest. The only reason people live there is to commute because there’s nothing to do. Let’s keep a
semblance of a community alive and leave 25th avenue alone and let jobs and businesses live on.
In addition, no one told anyone who lived around here about this! Why wouldn’t you let any of the neighbors, some
who have lived here for over 30 years, privy to this information. This is terrible communication with your
constituents and I’m extremely disappointed.
This is not a smart decision. These apartments should not be built. I don’t care how much money this will make
people. Let’s care about the community and not make this more of a commuter town than it already is.
Thank you,
Olivia Wallach
Sent from my iPhone
536 of 575

--- page 537 ---
From:
Linda Callegari
To:
Adam Loraine; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Proposed General Plan Land Use and Heights - 25th Ave Area
Date:
Monday, April 3, 2023 4:35:15 PM
To Councilmember Loraine,
I'm emailing you regarding the proposed 50 foot+ residential 3 -5 story building at the
church parking lot between 24th and 25th Avenue on Hacienda. I am outraged that I
just heard about this possible development this weekend. I am a longtime resident of
the 25th Avenue neighborhood.  I do not understand why you, as our representative,
did not reach out to the neighborhood residents to discuss this proposal and how it
might impact the neighborhood. It is not reasonable for there to be a 5 - 8 story
building in the middle of a residential neighborhood. It will cause too much traffic and
there will definitely not be enough parking for the apartment building, for the church
on 25th Avenue, or for the shops on 25th Avenue. 
I do not understand how the city council can override the building height limits of
Measure Y, that won the vote of the citizens of San Mateo. It is just not right that the
city council can change the rules because they don't like the outcome of the vote.
Also, before trying to get more dense and higher buildings into the middle of
residential neighborhoods, make sure that the developments at Bay Meadows and
the old K Mart area have been occupied. As I understand it, there will be more
housing at the area of the Rite Aid shopping center on Delaware. Those
developments have not even been built yet.
Do not try to override the voters of San Mateo and push this development through.
Sincerely,
Linda Callegari
 
537 of 575

--- page 538 ---
Land Use Heights and Densities, 
and Measure Y
April 3, 2023
538 of 575

--- page 539 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Team
»
City of San Mateo
• Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director
• Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
• Somer Smith, Associate Planner
• Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
• Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
• Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
»
Technical Advisory Committee
• Over 40 staff members from all City 
departments and SMCFD
»
Consultants
• Joanna Jansen, PlaceWorks
• Carey Stone, PlaceWorks
• Angelica Garcia, PlaceWorks
• Evelia Chairez, PCRC
• Sabina Mora, Good City Co
• Nelson\Nygaard
• Kittelson Associates, Inc.
• Economic & Planning Systems (EPS)
• BKF Engineers
539 of 575

--- page 540 ---
3
StriveSanMateo.org
Objectives for Tonight 
» Confirm City Council direction on:
• The base densities and height limits that should be incorporated into the 
General Plan Update’s Land Use Element
• How Measure Y should be addressed as part of the General Plan Update
540 of 575

--- page 541 ---
Project Overview
541 of 575

--- page 542 ---
5
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Vision Statement
542 of 575

--- page 543 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Milestones
Timeframe
Task
Fall - Winter 2018 
Establish communitywide vision for 2040
Spring - Summer 2019 
Identify study areas
•
Developed with an awareness of Measures P and Y
•
Study areas did not include any Single-Family Residential areas
Fall 2019 
Create a range of land use alternatives
Winter 2019 - Summer 2021
Finalize draft land use alternatives
Fall 2021 - Summer 2022
Select a preferred land use and circulation scenario
Summer - Fall 2022
Prepare draft goals, policies, and actions (GoPAs)
543 of 575

--- page 544 ---
7
StriveSanMateo.org
Where Are We Now and What’s Next? 
We are here
(June/July)
(August)
544 of 575

--- page 545 ---
Community Outreach and 
Engagement
545 of 575

--- page 546 ---
9
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Engagement
» Outreach events from 2018 to 2022 
include:
•
43 public meetings (GPS, PC and CC)
•
23 community workshops
§
2 youth events
§
3 Spanish language events
•
26 pop-up events
•
5 online activities
•
2 newsletters mailed to every San Mateo household
•
16+ Staff presentations to community groups
•
Focused outreach by PCRC at: Beresford Community Center, Mi Rancho Market, 
Los Primos Taqueria, Video Loco, North B Street, bus stops, food distribution 
sites, churches, laundromats, COVID testing sites, etc.
546 of 575

--- page 547 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
2022 Communitywide Survey
» Statistically significant survey about a range of topics, including land 
use and housing 
» Administered in English and Spanish between January 21 and February 
2, 2022  
» Results of the Survey presented to the City Council on March 7, 2022
» The following summarizes the main findings concerning building 
heights and density:
•
63% of San Mateo residents indicated support for concentrating new housing in higher-
density buildings downtown and near transit up to 12 stories; and 68% indicated 
support for buildings up to eight stories, to reserve more land for parks, recreation 
areas, and community amenities and to minimize change to existing neighborhoods
547 of 575

--- page 548 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
» Fall 2023 – Draft General Plan
• Three City Council meetings
» Late 2023/early 2024 – Adoption Hearings
• Up to three City Council meetings
Future City Council Meetings on General Plan
548 of 575

--- page 549 ---
2040 Proposed General 
Plan Heights and Densities
549 of 575

--- page 550 ---
13
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Land Use Map
550 of 575

--- page 551 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Land Use Map 
by Study Area
551 of 575

--- page 552 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
Proposed Land Use Heights and Densities 
Land Use Intensity Height Range
Density Range
Consistent with 
Measure Y?
Very Low
1 to 3 stories 
1 to 9 units per acre
Yes
Low I
1 to 3 stories
10 to 19 units per acre
Yes
Low II
2 to 4 stories
20 to 35 units per acre
Yes
Medium I
3 to 5 stories
36 to 50 units per acre
Yes
Medium II
4 to 6 stories
51 to 99 units per acre
No
High I
5 to 8 stories
100 to 130 units per acre
No
High II
6 to 10 stories
100 to 200 units per acre
No
552 of 575

--- page 553 ---
16
StriveSanMateo.org
Relationship Between Site Design and Height
553 of 575

--- page 554 ---
17
StriveSanMateo.org
Zoning Code Update
»
City will update Zoning Code 
following General Plan adoption
»
Zoning Code districts will 
further refine the allowed 
densities, FAR, and height
»
Not all Districts need to allow 
the max height allowed by the 
General Plan
• State law does allow housing 
projects to request max density 
allowed under General Plan
Existing General Plan 
Existing Zoning Code
554 of 575

--- page 555 ---
18
StriveSanMateo.org
Zoning Code Update - Timing
» Following adoption of the General Plan, Zoning Code will 
need to be updated
• Includes Zoning Code amendments and updated Zoning Map to align 
with General Plan
• Could take 1-2+ years to complete, depending on final version of 
General Plan
• Will include community outreach and engagement and direction from 
Planning Commission before City Council consideration
• General Plan Implementation Plan will be developed following adoption 
555 of 575

--- page 556 ---
The General Plan Update 
and Measure Y
556 of 575

--- page 557 ---
20
StriveSanMateo.org
Relationship to Measure Y
» Measure Y is a ballot measure passed by the voters in November 2020
» Retained the height and density limits from Measure P
• Sunset date of 2030
» Measure Y includes a height limit of up to 55 feet and a density limit up 
to 50 dwelling units per acre
• Height limit allows for exceptions in certain locations and under certain circumstances
• State Density Bonus law allows projects to exceed both limits when affordable units are 
provided
» Any components within the updated General Plan that are inconsistent 
with Measure Y will require voter approval before they could take effect
557 of 575

--- page 558 ---
21
StriveSanMateo.org
Measure Y Alignment with Draft General Plan
» Draft General Plan would continue to apply Measure Y requirements 
until:
• Measure sunsets; or 
• Voters provide different direction
» Public Review Draft General Plan would include Measure Y as an 
appendix, but the text would not be woven into the Land Use Element
» Measure Y would be implemented by this policy:
Voter Approved Growth Limits. As required by law, for the duration that Measure Y is in 
effect, any inconsistency between the measure and other provisions of the General Plan’s 
Land Use Element shall default to the provisions specified in Measure Y. 
» Reference to Measure Y will be added to each land use designation
558 of 575

--- page 559 ---
22
StriveSanMateo.org
Measure Y Alignment Timeline
» Winter 2024 – Council considers Final EIR and General 
Plan for adoption
» Spring 2024 – Council reviews ballot measure language 
and resolution
• A ballot measure must be added at least 88 days before the election 
(8/9/2024) 
• Ballot measure resolution adoption target is May/June 2024
• Last regular CC meeting to adopt would be July 15, 2024
» November 2024 – voters consider Measure Y related 
ballot measure
559 of 575

--- page 560 ---
March 6th City Council 
Study Session
560 of 575

--- page 561 ---
24
StriveSanMateo.org
March 6 City Council Study Session
Staff confirmed that a majority of Council supported the following direction: 
» The height and density ranges associated with each land use designation are appropriate 
to be included in the Public Review Draft General Plan, with the following changes: 
•
Set the maximum height for Office High at seven stories
•
Remove High II (up to 200 units/acre and 10 stories) for the Residential and Mixed-Use land 
use designations
» The Measure Y framework proposed by staff with target for an updated ballot measure on 
the November 2024 election is appropriate, with the following direction: 
§
Conduct a statistically significant survey to test ballot feasibility
§
Conduct robust outreach to all members of the community with materials and large 
graphics that are legible and easy to understand
561 of 575

--- page 562 ---
City Council Discussion 
and Direction
562 of 575

--- page 563 ---
26
StriveSanMateo.org
City Council Direction 
» Should Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be removed from 
consideration?
» Should a land use map with Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II 
be studied in the Environmental Impact Report? 
» Should a statistically reliable survey be conducted?
» When should the survey be conducted?
• During Draft General Plan Outreach 
§ Should High II (up to 10 stories and 200 units/acre) be included in TOD areas and 
Bridgepointe
• After Draft General Plan Phase 
§ How Measure Y should be modified to align with the General Plan Update
563 of 575

--- page 564 ---
27
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Considerations
» Removal of the Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II designations 
could reduce the 20-year growth estimates by approx. 1,000 units
» Preparation of the GPU’s Environmental Impact Report (EIR) started in 
August 2022
• The EIR technical studies are evaluating a land use map with High II
• Removing High II from EIR evaluation would delay publication of Draft EIR
• The EIR can be certified even if a reduced growth land use map is adopted with the 
General Plan 
» The Draft EIR is targeted for publication in August 2023
• 45-day public comment period, with a public meeting, after publication 
564 of 575

--- page 565 ---
28
StriveSanMateo.org
High I and II Locations
» Proposed locations of 
Residential and Mixed-Use 
High I and High II designations 
on the Draft Land Use Map
» Sites with current pipeline 
projects or existing buildings 
that exceed Measure Y 
identified
565 of 575

--- page 566 ---
29
StriveSanMateo.org
Survey Timing Options
2023
2024
Winter
Spring
Summer
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Fall
2024 
Election
Ballot 
Resolution 
Deadline
Survey during 
Draft GP outreach
Survey after Draft 
GP phase 
completed
CC adoption 
of EIR and GP
CC direction 
on Draft EIR 
and Draft GP
Adoption of 
Ballot 
Resolution
Publication of 
Draft GP
We are here
Publication of Final 
EIR and Final GP
566 of 575

--- page 567 ---
30
StriveSanMateo.org
Survey Considerations
»
Cost to conduct a statistically reliable survey is $30K-$35K and takes 4-5 
months to complete
»
Conducting survey before publication of Draft General Plan would eliminate 
ability to place a ballot measure on the November 2024 election
»
Who should be surveyed – community wide, registered voters or likely 
voters?
• Surveying likely voters is recommended by staff
»
When should the survey be conducted?
• During Draft General Plan Outreach 
§ Should High II (up to 10 stories and 200 units/acre) be included in TOD areas and Bridgepointe
• After Draft General Plan Phase 
§ How Measure Y should be modified to align with the General Plan Update
567 of 575

--- page 568 ---
31
StriveSanMateo.org
Council Meeting Public Comments
» 106 written comments received after agenda publication
•
March 31st to April 3rd (as of 3:30pm)
» Expressions of concern related to proposed land uses 
around 25th Ave (within Study Area 3)
» Expressions of support to maintain Measure Y height and 
density limits 
» Expressions of support to keep High II land use designations 
to support high density housing production near transit and 
to reduce GHG emissions
568 of 575

--- page 569 ---
32
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Map Recommendation
» For Draft General Plan Publication
•
Adjust 25th Ave block to Mixed-Use Medium I 
(3-5 stories, 36-50 du/ac)
•
Adjust First Presbyterian Church parking lot to 
Residential Low II (2-4 stories, 20-35 du/ac)
•
Allow General Plan team to make other study 
area edge adjustments to support 
height/density transitions
» Make adjustments to other study area 
edges consistent with Council 
direction to establish land use 
height/density transitions
Res Low II Mixed-Use Med I
El Camino Real
25th Ave
Hacienda St
569 of 575

--- page 570 ---
33
StriveSanMateo.org
City Council Direction 
»
Should Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be removed from 
consideration?
»
Should a land use map with Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be 
studied in the Environmental Impact Report? 
»
Should a statistically reliable survey be conducted?
»
When should the survey be conducted?
• During Draft General Plan Outreach 
§ Should High II (up to 10 stories and 200 units/acre) be included in TOD areas and Bridgepointe
• After Draft General Plan Phase 
§ How Measure Y should be modified to align with the General Plan Update
»
Support allowing General Plan Team to make minor adjustments to draft land 
use map consistent with Council direction? 
570 of 575

--- page 571 ---
STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040

Thank You

od ak


--- page 572 ---
Clarifying Questions?
572 of 575

--- page 573 ---
Public Comment
573 of 575

--- page 574 ---
City Council Discussion
574 of 575

--- page 575 ---
38
StriveSanMateo.org
City Council Direction 
»
Should Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be removed from 
consideration?
»
Should a land use map with Residential High II and Mixed-Use High II be 
studied in the Environmental Impact Report? 
»
Should a statistically reliable survey be conducted?
»
When should the survey be conducted?
• During Draft General Plan Outreach 
§ Should High II (up to 10 stories and 200 units/acre) be included in TOD areas and Bridgepointe
• After Draft General Plan Phase 
§ How Measure Y should be modified to align with the General Plan Update
»
Support allowing General Plan Team to make minor adjustments to draft land 
use map consistent with Council direction? 
575 of 575