Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Hamilton Township OH PD (Warren County)
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Aug 12 2026

Overview

Hamilton Township PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Hamilton Township PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Hamilton Township PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Story

Flock camera technology played a key role in the successful investigation of a burglary involving the residence of an 88-year-old female victim. Flock data placed the suspect in the vicinity of the victim's home at the time of the offense, leading investigators to confront the suspect with the evidence. The suspect ultimately admitted to being in the area and on the victim's property. Continued investigation resulted in the suspect being convicted of Burglary.

Featured Success Story

Flock camera technology played a critical role in the investigation of an aggravated arson involving an occupied residence. Flock data identified the suspect's vehicle entering Hamilton Township and placed it in the area of the fire at the time of the offense. Although the suspect initially denied ever leaving his home that night, the Flock evidence contradicted his statement and established his presence near the scene. This evidence significantly assisted investigators and ultimately contributed to the suspect's conviction for Aggravated Arson.

Featured Success Story

Flock Safety technology alerted officers to a vehicle associated with a missing juvenile out of Texas. Officers located the vehicle at a Speedway in South Lebanon and found the 14-year-old female with an adult male in his 40s who had taken her from Texas. The adult male was arrested, and the juvenile was safely recovered and transported to the Hamilton Township Police Department, where she remained in the care of Child Protective Services until she was reunited with her mother, who traveled from Texas.

Featured Success Story

Flock camera technology assisted investigators in identifying the suspect vehicle involved in a breaking and entering at River's Bend Liquor Store. Using Flock data, investigators were able to develop leads that resulted in the identification and arrest of three suspects connected to the crime.

Featured Success Story

Flock camera technology assisted in locating a subject experiencing a mental health crisis after he made threats of self-harm and left his residence in a vehicle. Flock data helped investigators track the vehicle's travel, ultimately leading to the subject being located in Missouri. Law enforcement safely intercepted the individual and transported him to a local hospital for evaluation and treatment.

Featured Success Story

Flock camera technology assisted investigators by identifying and locating the suspect vehicle involved in a felony hit-skip crash that resulted in serious physical injury. The evidence provided through Flock helped advance the investigation, leading to the identification of the suspect and ultimately the suspect's indictment.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

22

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

196,666

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

100

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Hamilton Township OH PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety