--- page 1 ---
https://apnews.com/article/flock-cameras-campaigns-midterms-senate-election-2026-
6e9a1eaf076994e9283ea93647deb6b5
AP
Flock surveillance cameras become midterm campaign
target as voters balk at tech companies' power
Across the country and up and down the ballot, candidates from both parties are
increasingly on the attack over Flock cameras
By SARAH RANKIN - Associated Press
Sep 3, 2026
 
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — Wisconsin's candidates for governor want to limit them,
while Pennsylvania's say they support a ban. A Michigan congressional candidate
called them “un-American.” A Florida Senate candidate is selling merch opposing
them.
Across the country and up and down ballots, candidates from both parties are
increasingly on the attack over Flock cameras, the AI-powered nationwide
network of automated cameras that record license plates and other
characteristics of all passing vehicles, allowing law enforcement agencies to
search and share that data. Although police say the cameras are an invaluable
crime-fighting tool, some critics say their pervasiveness amounts to
unconstitutional warrantless mass surveillance.
The cameras sold by Atlanta-based Flock Safety, which the company has said are
running in 6,000 communities in every state but Alaska, have become a new
campaign issue that candidates and strategists see as part of a backlash against
powerful technology companies, connected to broader debates over the future of
artificial intelligence and the associated boom in data center construction.
“We’ve seen candidates running on banning them, cutting off funding, or
requiring warrants. That’s a credit to activists across the country who have raised
concerns about their use,” Michael Soyfer, an attorney for the Institute for Justice,
Dette websted bruger teknologier såsom cookies til at aktivere væsentlige webstedsfunktioner
såvel som for analyse, personalisering og målrettet annoncering. Fortrolighedspolitik
Accepter
Afvis ikke-væsentligt

--- page 2 ---
a public interest law firm litigating over the technology, said in a statement.
In response to questions about the cameras as a campaign theme, a Flock
spokeswoman emphasized the company's claims about the power of its
technology, saying it helped “solve approximately one million crimes and helped
reunite roughly 10,000 missing people with their families.”
“We ask anyone weighing in on this issue to engage with the facts and the record:
the crimes solved, the families reunited, the safeguards already in place, and what
our technology actually does,” said MoMo Zhou, the company's vice president of
communications. “We ask them to work with the communities using this
technology to decide what rules should govern it and not to spread
misinformation or ban a critical public safety tool outright that is helping to
make communities safer.”
Flock opponents cite privacy concerns
License plate reader technology is decades old, and Flock was founded in 2017.
But the company has faced a growing backlash this year — one that's crescendoed
in recent weeks. It has come as awareness has grown about the sweeping reach of
Flock's network, litigation has unfolded over constitutional questions related to
the use of the cameras, and news media have documented cases of officers
misusing the technology to stalk personal connections.
James Talarico, the Democratic candidate for U.S. Senate in Texas, recently
declared, “Flock cameras have no place in Texas.” His Republican opponent Ken
Paxton's campaign didn't respond to a request for comment.
Josh Shapiro, the Democratic Pennsylvania governor seeking reelection and
considered a potential contender for the White House in 2028, said this week he
would support a statewide ban. His Republican opponent, Pennsylvania Treasurer
Stacy Garrity, said in a statement, “Flock cameras are an intrusive invasion of
privacy and they should be banned.”
In Wisconsin, the issue dominated the governor's race this week.
Dette websted bruger teknologier såsom cookies til at aktivere væsentlige webstedsfunktioner
såvel som for analyse, personalisering og målrettet annoncering. Fortrolighedspolitik

--- page 3 ---
Democratic nominee David Crowley, who is taking hits over his past comments in
support of making Wisconsin a global AI and data hub, highlighted that he had
issued an order limiting the use of Flock cameras in Milwaukee County, where he
serves as county executive. He said that as governor he would “implement strict
transparency and accountability laws that ensure Wisconsinites are not spied on.”
His Republican opponent, U.S. Rep. Tom Tiffany, said in a statement that he
would pause state funding for Flock cameras and create a task force to establish
stronger privacy protections, penalties for misuse, limits on data retention and
sharing and “safeguards against Communist China and foreign adversaries.”
The Wisconsin Democratic Party responded by posting a clip of Tiffany in April
saying in response to a question about Flock cameras that he didn’t know what
they were. Then the state Republican Party hit back, saying “Big Brother Crowley”
had a long record of previously supporting police surveillance technologies.
The issue has also infiltrated Rhode Island’s gubernatorial race, where
Democratic Gov. Dan McKee paused the installation of new cameras just weeks
before the state’s Sept. 9 primary, citing privacy and transparency concerns. His
primary opponent, former CVS executive Helena Foulkes, has questioned McKee’s
motives for stopping the rollout so close to the election but agreed a review of
how the data is being used was needed.
In Michigan, self-described democratic socialist William Lawrence, a Democratic
nominee for the U.S. House, recently addressed the cameras by calling them “the
most un-American thing I can imagine.” A spokesman for his opponent,
incumbent Rep. Tom Barrett, noted that Barrett is a co-sponsor of legislation
intended to ban federal agencies from using Flock cameras or other surveillance
technology and to prevent state and local governments from using federal funds
to buy them.
In Florida, where outgoing Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's administration this
week ordered the removal of automated license plate readers from state highway
rights-of-way, Democratic Senate nominee Angie Nixon's campaign is selling a T-
shirt that reads, “FLORIDA NEEDS TO GET THE FLOCK OUT.”
Dette websted bruger teknologier såsom cookies til at aktivere væsentlige webstedsfunktioner
såvel som for analyse, personalisering og målrettet annoncering. Fortrolighedspolitik

--- page 4 ---
Law enforcement groups support the technology
While calls for bans or restrictions have mounted, other candidates have
expressed more supportive or nuanced views, and policing groups have reiterated
their strong backing for the company and its tech.
Mitchell Davis III, chief of police in Hazel Crest, Illinois, and the president of the
National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives, said in an interview
that technology like Flock’s is “invaluable” and that the conversations around it
have become “disturbing.”
“The disturbing thing for me right now is I’m seeing these communities that are
telling their police departments that we’re no longer using these (automated
license plate readers) in our communities, and that, I believe, that’s a huge
mistake. Talk about the proverbial throwing the baby out with the bathwater,” he
said. “Instead of focusing on eliminating the cameras, make sure that there’s
proper guidelines and proper accountability for misuse of the cameras.”
President Donald Trump said recently at an Oval Office event that his
administration was studying the issue and would have more to say soon.
Cayce Myers, an attorney who teaches courses that touch on public relations,
political communications and privacy issues at Virginia Tech University, said
Americans are increasingly living in a world where they are interfacing with new
technologies like Flock cameras whether they want to or not.
“I think there’s a real synergy between the camera systems that we’re talking
about and also this greater societal discomfort with AI and technology in
general,” he said, adding that it seems obvious that new surveillance technologies
will continue to become a major political issue.
For Josh Chavez, Flock cameras are one of his concerns about the intersection of
emerging technologies and civil liberties in his stretch of West Texas where data
center projects are proliferating. Chavez, an HVAC installer, is outspoken enough
Dette websted bruger teknologier såsom cookies til at aktivere væsentlige webstedsfunktioner
såvel som for analyse, personalisering og målrettet annoncering. Fortrolighedspolitik

--- page 5 ---
on data centers that he was invited to participate in a recent roundtable on the
subject with Democratic gubernatorial candidate Gina Hinojosa, who is also a
Flock critic.
“This is the government seeking more power, right?” Chavez said of the cameras.
“In a partnership with Big Tech, who is seeking more money, all at the expense of
us.”
Associated Press reporters Scott Bauer in Madison, Wisconsin; Marc Levy in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Kimberlee Kruesi in Providence, Rhode Island; and
Gary Fields in Washington contributed to this report.
 
Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast,
rewritten or redistributed without permission.
Dette websted bruger teknologier såsom cookies til at aktivere væsentlige webstedsfunktioner
såvel som for analyse, personalisering og målrettet annoncering. Fortrolighedspolitik