South City expands surveillance | Local News | smdailyjournal.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP About Us Contact Us Subscribe Advertise Jobs Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram RSS 52° Partly Cloudy San Mateo, CA (94402) Today A few passing clouds, otherwise generally sunny. High 66F. Winds W at 10 to 20 mph.. Tonight Cloudy. Low 53F. Winds W at 10 to 20 mph. Updated: May 9, 2026 @ 1:41 am Full Forecast Site search Search Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Home Delivery Mail Subscription Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP Close Featured South City expands surveillance Police and Fire departments to have access to 44 license plate readers, more than 10 drones By Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author twitter Author email Jan 13, 2025 Jan 13, 2025 1 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin South City approved a two-year contract for 44 automated license plate readers and recently kicked off its drone program. The ALPR program began in 2022 — operated by the firm Flock Safety — and Police Chief Scott Campbell said the devices have been instrumental in reducing crime. Scott Campbell “Since the program’s inception, the police department has documented 555 Flock-related incidents that have resulted in 147 arrests and dozens of cases being sent to the District Attorney’s Office for arrest warrants and prosecution,” Campbell said. Ken Anderson Many cities throughout the county use ALPRs, and it has often been applied in theft-related crimes. According to public records data, retail theft arrests in South San Francisco increased from 32 to 51 in 2023, but initial figures from January to August 2024 show it has been declining since. Private property crime arrests seemed on track to decrease in 2024, based on initial data. The city has allocated about $120,000 each year over a two-year period, working with Flock Safety. The city currently has 28 cameras in place and will soon have 44. The city also recently launched its drone program, used by both the police and fire departments. Fire Capt. Ken Anderson said the equipment is crucial for search and rescue missions and for incidents, such as the four-alarm fire that broke out in a South City warehouse several years ago. Recommended for you “It would have been great to have a drone up for us to see an aerial view of the collapsed zone or what the status of the roof was,” Anderson said. Police Lt. Chris Devan said the drones will only be used for specific uses, not for unwarranted surveillance. “We will not be weaponizing any of our drones, they will not be used to conduct random surveillance activities … and absent a warrant or some sort of exigent circumstance, our drone operators know they are not to intentionally record or transmit images where somebody would have a reasonable expectation of privacy,” Devan said. Despite the near ubiquity of ALPRs and drone devices, many individuals and watchdog nonprofits have been wary of their application and data-sharing practices . Police departments are supposed to adhere to strict rules when it comes to sharing license plate data with other states and federal law enforcement agencies, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But more than 70 departments throughout California have been found to violate those rules, according to an investigation from the nonprofit Electronic Frontier Foundation. At least 10 violations occurred across several Bay Area cities and counties, including Contra Costa and Santa Clara-based agencies. In 2021, Marin County Sheriff Robert Doyle was sued after findings surfaced that his agency was providing ALPR data to hundreds of federal and out-of-state agencies, such as ICE and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Attorney General Rob Bonta issued a legal memo in 2023 reiterating the ethical uses of ALPR data in response to both advocate concerns and law enforcement pushback, as the latter, in some cases, maintained their right to provide non-California agencies with the data. Councilmembers unanimously approved the expansion of the ALPR program. alyse@smdailyjournal.com (650) 344-5200 ext. 102 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin Tags Automatic Number-plate Recognition Surveillance Police Arrest Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Criminal Justice National Security Law Enforcement Crime Legal Action Criminal Law Justice Law Issues In Ethics Emergency Services Public Safety Common Law Government Misconduct Privacy Social Issues Security Public Law Law Enforcement Techniques U.s. Immigration And Customs Enforcement Search Warrant U.s. Customs And Border Protection Politics Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author twitter Author email Follow Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Recommended for you × Post a comment as Guest Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching Thank you for visiting the Daily Journal. Please purchase a Premium Subscription to continue reading. To continue, please log in, or sign up for a new account. We offer one free story view per month. If you register for an account, you will get two additional story views. After those three total views, we ask that you support us with a subscription. A subscription to our digital content is so much more than just access to our valuable content. It means you’re helping to support a local community institution that has, from its very start, supported the betterment of our society. Thank you very much! Sign Up Log In Purchase a Subscription Want to join the discussion? Only subscribers can view and post comments on articles. Subscribe Today Already a subscriber? Login Here Trending Stories Articles Images Videos Commented Articles San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims Caltrans plans maintenance work on Highway 101 in San Mateo County San Mateo County buys property for Pride Center, sobering station: Burlingame site could be considered for Horizon's treatment center over proposed San Mateo location 2 candidates vie for San Mateo County judge position: San Mateo County Deputy District Attorney Brian Donnellan and Santa Clara Chief Deputy District Attorney Jay Boyarsky A new generation for Truebeck: San Mateo construction giant gets new leadership Burlingame sees new neighborhood with mixed-use development, street redesign in North Rollins area Kevin Mullin faces four challengers for District 15 US House of Representatives seat New principals for Burlingame, Aragon high schools San Mateo County death notices — May 1 to May 4, 2026 Living the dream: Oracle Park hosts six Peninsula Athletic League baseball teams Images Videos Commented Quotes from Trump, other Republicans (25) Support our troops (15) My mother’s faith (13) Weird walk to the governor’s office (12) ‘Disappointed and disgusted’: San Mateo County Democrats respond to sexual assault allegations against former gubernatorial candidate Eric Swalwell (12) What’s the alternative? (11) A reflection on two recent Daily Journal letters (11) Voter suppression fear mongering (10) They picked a fight with the wrong neighborhood (7) Voter ID is wrong for California (7) You thinking of the next governor yet? (7) The cost of the Artemis mission (7) David Canepa’s campaign thriving (6) The San Mateo Daily Journal and AI (6) Historic districts are a segregationist tool (6) San Mateo residents show growing support for controversial treatment facility (5) Our paleo president (5) Editorial: David Canepa for San Mateo County assessor-county clerk-recorder and chief elections officer (5) China has a grip on the United States (5) Diane Papan faces challenge from Jabra Muhawieh in District 21 Assembly race (5) Historic ordinance: Don’t be fooled (5) Former San Mateo County sheriff files defamation claim against county (5) Canepa or Irizarry? (4) Editorial: San Mateo’s historic ordinance dangerously incomplete (4) We are headed toward a global collapse of civilization (4) San Mateo weighs in on transit wishlist: City leaders hope for better connectivity across San Mateo Bridge if regional measure passes (4) Youth activists campaign for Hector (4) Héctor Camacho for San Mateo County superintendent (4) Disagree with Daily Journal’s endorsement (4) Epstein Ballroom (3) David Canepa is the right choice for assessor (3) The truth about affordability (3) Americans at risk (3) Burlingame High School's Bay Academy program to relocate students amid parent concerns (3) Projected San Mateo deficit balloons: $16M shortfall expected next year (3) Stop complaining about overcrowding (3) Sequoia Union High School District Board of Trustees discuss cellphone policy: Trustees interested in making policy uniform districtwide, majority not inclined to ban ‘bell to bell’ (3) California K-12 schools see largest enrollment decline since pandemic (3) Crunch time (3) Bobby Lee Surrender Day (3) San Mateo County Office of Education: What and why (3) Notes, quotes and dust motes (3) San Mateo Union High School District retracts plan to relocate Bay Academy's special needs students (3) San Mateo County should establish an independent redistricting commission (3) San Mateo adjusts capital improvement budget amid funding shifts (3) Nancy Pelosi comments on White House Correspondents’ Dinner shooting (3) Skeletons never really stay buried (3) U.S. reckoning (3) When everyone is Maxxing (3) A little personal fiction (3) Trump survives a third attempt on his life (3) Iran’s uranium enrichment threatens world peace (3) Elect a professional, not a politician (3) San Mateo County paves way for sales tax increase: Board of Supervisors can place tax increase on ballots if desired, with split board approval (3) Arguments in for, against Redwood City School District parcel tax: Per-square-foot tax could generate $12.2 million annually in new revenue (2) Drivers struggle with rising gas prices: San Mateo County averaging around $6 per gallon (2) Rob Newsom Jr announces reelection bid for San Mateo City Council (2) Caltrain closures (2) Loan helps Caltrain’s budget: Agency projects a balanced budget with state assistance, still needs long-term solutions (2) Leadership means fighting like the moment demands (2) Proposed HUD ruling threatens to destabilize housing for mixed status families (2) South San Francisco to probe air quality: East Side at top of priority list (2) San Mateo could secure new Transportation Authority grants (2) How the Supreme Court ruling could affect state’s gerrymandered districts (2) Agree with Daily Journal’s endorsement (2) Californians should note how little they get from high taxes (2) San Mateo’s parking debacle becomes reality (2) Questionable communication (2) Xavier rhymes with savior (2) Iran vs. Project 2025 (2) 1st TV debate in race for governor mostly bypassed California’s serious issues (2) San Mateo County studies e-conveyance devices, again: Proposed ordinance would largely reiterate state law, give minimal local restrictions on proper device use (2) VA healthcare training wheels (2) Where is our humanity? (2) Caltrans plans maintenance work on Highway 101 in San Mateo County (2) This media coverage has been badly skewed (2) Proposed recovery center (2) San Mateo County considers e-bike restrictions for children under 12 (2) Withdraw Baywood historic nomination (2) San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims (2) Protecting my peace (2) Belmont to revise Climate Action Plan: City updates plan to align with stronger state goals and increase EV adoption, non-vehicle use and tree planting (2) Preparing for the end (2) With Californians paying sky-high gas prices, now is not the time for new oil regulations (2) Shots fired as gunman charges toward ballroom at White House correspondents' dinner. Trump unharmed (1) Biden and the Taliban (1) Social justice goals in San Mateo (1) Sequoia junior Hennelly takes one for the team (1) Markwayne Mullin suggests halting customs processing at airports in sanctuary cities (1) Burlingame sees new neighborhood with mixed-use development, street redesign in North Rollins area (1) Marc Berman defends District 23 assembly seat against Republican challengers (1) Elk Grove Democratic Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen has first-in-the-nation plan to boost payments for child support (1) Featured Events Calendar Contributed family friendly for kids all ages Sponsored Our Lady of Angels School Presents Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Saturday, May 9th, 2026 @ 7:00 pm Our Lady of Angels School $10.00 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Our Lady of Angels school presents Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Jr! Read more Our Lady of Angels School Presents Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Calendar Contributed family friendly Sponsored Sofya Gulyak piano recital This event occurred on Friday, May 8th, 2026 @ 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm Gradus Ad Parnassum Music Academy $50/adult $25/child Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Join us for an evening of piano artistry with Sofya Gulyak 🎹, presented by Gradus ad Parnas… Read more Sofya Gulyak piano recital Latest News Moscow marks Victory Day with a Red Square parade under tight security Hungary’s Péter Magyar is set to be sworn in as prime minister, ending Viktor Orbán’s 16-year rule Chaos marks the Venice Biennale after the jury quits over Israeli and Russian participation AP Entertainment SummaryBrief at 4:31 a.m. EDT Today in History: May 9, FDA approves first birth control pill Trump's deal making with Xi next week may determine Hong Kong jailed activist Jimmy Lai's fate A military parade commemorating the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II has started in Moscow This Day in History Recent Comments on our Stories CA Is Burning said: If a mother or mother and dad can’t afford diapers, then they can’t afford a child. NO FREE DIAPERS . Perhaps parents should be approved via c… View more CA Is Burning said: I think all districts should be white Caucasian districts so white folks can have full control . Oh wait, that would be considered racist. View more CA Is Burning said: I guess our “hands out democrats” need to thank Trump since sleepy Joe was in basement eating ice cream. I’m calling all TDS-ers to put their … View more CA Is Burning said: If the people and sheep continue to vote for these scams, the same people will be whining and crying again in two years and asking for more. I… View more CA Is Burning said: Terrence - I knew darn well you would provide some common sense. Don’t forget, all the people who pay taxes are on the hook for the CalTrans u… View more Latest e-Edition San Mateo Daily Journal To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. The Daily Journal in your inbox Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! You must select at least one email list. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Submit An Event If you have an event you'd like to list on the site, submit it now! Go to form Calendar May 2026 Sun S Mon M Tue T Wed W Thu T Fri F Sat S 1 Fri 2 Sat 3 Sun 4 Mon 5 Tue 6 Wed 7 Thu 8 Fri 9 Sat 10 Sun 11 Mon 12 Tue 13 Wed 14 Thu 15 Fri 16 Sat 17 Sun 18 Mon 19 Tue 20 Wed 21 Thu 22 Fri 23 Sat 24 Sun 25 Mon 26 Tue 27 Wed 28 Thu 29 Fri 30 Sat 31 Sun Browse Today's events Submit Latest Classified Ads 66-70 Porsche 911 front black mask Traveling crib by Fisher 4 1967 Mustang hub caps in good condition Go Trax-Folding E-Bike w/fat 20'' tires Double bed frame Mahogany color MY PAINTING & GLASS PALO ALTO HIGH SCHOOL FLEA MARKET LASTING IMPRESSIONS ARE OUR FIRST PRIORITY Bulletin Stocks Market Data by TradingView Sections Home News Sports Business Arts & Entertainment Celebrations Community Obituaries Lifestyle Opinion Advertising Features Online Features Multimedia Services Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Subscribe Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Calendar Marketplace Email Alerts Search Weather Contact Information smdailyjournal.com 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123 San Mateo, CA 94402 Phone: 650-344-5200 Email: info@ Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 San Mateo Daily Journal 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123, San Mateo, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! First name Last name * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Confirm Email Address Confirm your email address. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close