Burlingame council supports exploring citywide surveillance technology policy | Local News | smdailyjournal.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP About Us Contact Us Subscribe Advertise Jobs Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram RSS 71° Sunny San Mateo, CA (94402) Today Sunny. High 68F. Winds W at 15 to 25 mph.. Tonight Clear skies. Low 51F. Winds W at 10 to 20 mph. Updated: May 14, 2026 @ 1:05 pm Full Forecast Site search Search Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Home Delivery Mail Subscription Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP Featured Burlingame council supports exploring citywide surveillance technology policy By Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author email Apr 10, 2026 Apr 10, 2026 Updated Apr 17, 2026 0 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Daily Journal file photo Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin Amidst ongoing, national conversations around public surveillance and data safety, a majority of Burlingame councilmembers said they’d be in support of exploring a citywide surveillance technology policy that would define data access and protection rules. Flock Safety, an automated license plate reader vendor that records data typically used in law enforcement operations, has been a particular point of concern in data safety discussions. In nearby Mountain View, for example, federal and state law enforcement agencies accessed the ALPR data in violation of city policy, spurring community concern and an end to the program. Other local municipalities, like Santa Clara and Santa Cruz, have also cut ties with the company . Burlingame has 17 ALPR cameras in place managed by its police department. It has its own policies in place to guide data protection and also adheres to state law, which prohibits data-sharing with out-of-state agencies. The city does not have a policy of its own to guide data use purpose, collection and auditing, staff said. For Mayor Michael Brownrigg, that lapse in local legislation is unacceptable, he said. “I am confident our department is treating this data sensitively. Unfortunately, the world isn’t Burlingame,” he said. “I just don’t think in this environment nationally, you can look around and say, ‘I trust every law enforcement agency in the country.’ I don’t anymore. I can’t, after Minneapolis. I just can’t.” Brownrigg, alongside Councilmember Desiree Thayer and Vice Mayor Andrea Pappajohn, were all proponents of the policy, highlighting the benefit of public transparency regardless of whether the city would be creating new regulation or simply restating existing rules. “I would be interested in pursuing a policy. I understand we would be the first in the county putting something together, but I don’t think that should prohibit us from doing so,” Thayer said. Recommended for you Councilmember Donna Colson said she was supportive of a baseline technology surveillance policy when it was first introduced to the council in 2023, but felt that the council’s prolonged discussion and eventual decision to put off the policy at the time was political. The Burlingame Police Department already does “a really good job,” Colson said, adding she was concerned with bogging down officers with convoluted data management rather than having them out on the streets if the city moved forward with a tandem technology impact report to accompany the surveillance policy. “I want my police on the ground policing,” she said. “I don’t want them sitting in an office collecting data, analyzing data, looking at data, when we haven’t had a problem.” Residents have not expressed major concerns about the ALPRs, Councilmember Peter Stevenson said. “I think we do a good job in our police. I don’t hear from my neighbors or residents, ‘why do we have those cameras,’ or ‘why do we do that?’” he said. “Quite the opposite, [they’re] quite enthusiastic about how this technology has actually caught people that have violated the law.” Despite tepid interest from Colson and Stevenson, with a majority of councilmembers in support, staff will be moving forward with a potential future policy. It’s important for the city to engage proactively with data security issues, Brownrigg emphasized, particularly given the impact that artificial intelligence will have on them not just in Burlingame, but nationally and around the globe. “One of the scariest things about what’s happening nationwide and actually, globally, is a whole lot of data gets collected by the government, a whole lot, and most of it never gets looked at by anybody, because no one has the time,” he said. “AI is going to make time.” holly@smdailyjournal.com (650) 344-5200 ext. 105 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin More information East Palo Alto City Council removes Flock camera contract item from agenda Three members on the East Palo Alto City Council decided at Tuesday’s meeting to pull an item from the agenda that would have allowed it to re… Half Moon Bay to review license plate readers use Tags Burlingame Surveillance City Council Data Protection Flock Safety Alpr Public Safety Michael Brownrigg Automatic Number-plate Recognition Social Issues National Security Issues In Ethics Justice Politics Law Technology Public Sphere Government Privacy Law Enforcement Crime Prevention Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author email Follow Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff Recommended for you × Post a comment as Guest Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching Thank you for visiting the Daily Journal. Please purchase a Premium Subscription to continue reading. To continue, please log in, or sign up for a new account. We offer one free story view per month. If you register for an account, you will get two additional story views. After those three total views, we ask that you support us with a subscription. A subscription to our digital content is so much more than just access to our valuable content. It means you’re helping to support a local community institution that has, from its very start, supported the betterment of our society. Thank you very much! Sign Up Log In Purchase a Subscription Want to join the discussion? Only subscribers can view and post comments on articles. Subscribe Today Already a subscriber? Login Here Trending Stories Articles Images Videos Commented Articles See’s Candies at Hillsdale Shopping Center celebrates 70 years: San Mateo location opened just after mall was constructed San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims Rail safety cost drops: Updated design for grade separation in San Bruno and South San Francisco saves critical dollars Former Marriott Hotel to become apartments, townhomes: New proposal would bring 234 residential units on 10-acre site 2 candidates vie for San Mateo County judge position: San Mateo County Deputy District Attorney Brian Donnellan and Santa Clara Chief Deputy District Attorney Jay Boyarsky Millbrae mayor resigning: Reuben Holober is stepping down from City Council to pursue job in public finance Half Moon Bay repeals rent control: Rental registry requirements also removed in 3-2 vote San Mateo County buys property for Pride Center, sobering station: Burlingame site could be considered for Horizon's treatment center over proposed San Mateo location San Mateo County death notices — May 6 to May 7, 2026 David Attenborough, the excited but hushed voice of nature programs, turns 100 Images Videos Commented Quotes from Trump, other Republicans (25) Support our troops (15) My mother’s faith (13) SAVE Act (13) Weird walk to the governor’s office (12) ‘Disappointed and disgusted’: San Mateo County Democrats respond to sexual assault allegations against former gubernatorial candidate Eric Swalwell (12) A reflection on two recent Daily Journal letters (11) Voter suppression fear mongering (10) They picked a fight with the wrong neighborhood (7) Voter ID is wrong for California (7) You thinking of the next governor yet? (7) David Canepa’s campaign thriving (6) The San Mateo Daily Journal and AI (6) 19th Avenue/Fashion Island project finalizing design: San Mateo is putting finishing touches on design of major bike lane and congestion improvement project (6) San Mateo residents show growing support for controversial treatment facility (5) Past time to fix California public instruction (5) Our paleo president (5) China has a grip on the United States (5) Diane Papan faces challenge from Jabra Muhawieh in District 21 Assembly race (5) Historic ordinance: Don’t be fooled (5) Canepa or Irizarry? (4) Editorial: San Mateo’s historic ordinance dangerously incomplete (4) Good heavens, this cannot be allowed (4) We are headed toward a global collapse of civilization (4) San Mateo weighs in on transit wishlist: City leaders hope for better connectivity across San Mateo Bridge if regional measure passes (4) Héctor Camacho for San Mateo County superintendent (4) Against the 101/92 connector improvement (4) California to provide free diapers to newborns at more than 60 hospitals (4) Epstein Ballroom (3) David Canepa is the right choice for assessor (3) The truth about affordability (3) Burlingame High School's Bay Academy program to relocate students amid parent concerns (3) How about that GOP? (3) San Carlos picks Laureola Park for aquatic center: High level site decision invokes master planning process to ensue (3) Projected San Mateo deficit balloons: $16M shortfall expected next year (3) Stop complaining about overcrowding (3) Sequoia Union High School District Board of Trustees discuss cellphone policy: Trustees interested in making policy uniform districtwide, majority not inclined to ban ‘bell to bell’ (3) Tennessee enacts new US House map carving up majority-Black district in Memphis (3) California K-12 schools see largest enrollment decline since pandemic (3) Crunch time (3) San Mateo County Office of Education: What and why (3) San Mateo Union High School District retracts plan to relocate Bay Academy's special needs students (3) San Mateo County should establish an independent redistricting commission (3) San Mateo adjusts capital improvement budget amid funding shifts (3) Nancy Pelosi comments on White House Correspondents’ Dinner shooting (3) U.S. reckoning (3) Jim Irizarry unfit to be assessor (3) San Mateo County studies e-conveyance devices, again: Proposed ordinance would largely reiterate state law, give minimal local restrictions on proper device use (3) When everyone is Maxxing (3) A little personal fiction (3) Trump survives a third attempt on his life (3) San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims (3) Iran’s uranium enrichment threatens world peace (3) San Mateo working toward El Camino Real and 17th Avenue improvements: City’s recent talks with Caltrans yield promise for long-awaited changes (3) Elect a professional, not a politician (3) San Mateo County paves way for sales tax increase: Board of Supervisors can place tax increase on ballots if desired, with split board approval (3) Arguments in for, against Redwood City School District parcel tax: Per-square-foot tax could generate $12.2 million annually in new revenue (2) Drivers struggle with rising gas prices: San Mateo County averaging around $6 per gallon (2) Loan helps Caltrain’s budget: Agency projects a balanced budget with state assistance, still needs long-term solutions (2) Vote like you care (2) Leadership means fighting like the moment demands (2) Proposed HUD ruling threatens to destabilize housing for mixed status families (2) Support for Irizarry (2) How the Supreme Court ruling could affect state’s gerrymandered districts (2) Agree with Daily Journal’s endorsement (2) San Mateo’s parking debacle becomes reality (2) Xavier rhymes with savior (2) Iran vs. Project 2025 (2) Stabbing at Redwood City Safeway Saturday night (2) 1st TV debate in race for governor mostly bypassed California’s serious issues (2) Candidates for governor target rising Becerra (2) VA healthcare training wheels (2) Where is our humanity? (2) Caltrans plans maintenance work on Highway 101 in San Mateo County (2) This media coverage has been badly skewed (2) Withdraw Baywood historic nomination (2) Protecting my peace (2) Belmont to revise Climate Action Plan: City updates plan to align with stronger state goals and increase EV adoption, non-vehicle use and tree planting (2) Preparing for the end (2) With Californians paying sky-high gas prices, now is not the time for new oil regulations (2) Shots fired as gunman charges toward ballroom at White House correspondents' dinner. Trump unharmed (1) How to incorporate personal finance class (1) Biden and the Taliban (1) Social justice goals in San Mateo (1) Sequoia junior Hennelly takes one for the team (1) Former Marriott Hotel to become apartments, townhomes: New proposal would bring 234 residential units on 10-acre site (1) We are to blame, not the media (1) Burlingame sees new neighborhood with mixed-use development, street redesign in North Rollins area (1) Marc Berman defends District 23 assembly seat against Republican challengers (1) Governor debates (1) Blame or solve (1) Elk Grove Democratic Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen has first-in-the-nation plan to boost payments for child support (1) Prevent youth sports injuries (1) Decision Day (1) San Mateo Daily Journal endorsements for the June 2 election (1) South San Francisco’s plans for 800 housing units close to breaking ground, but funding remains a challenge (1) Foster City prioritizes bike, pedestrian projects: Council identifies 6 bike lane efforts along parts of Beach Park, Edgewater and Foster City boulevards (1) Featured Events Calendar Contributed free accessible all ages Sponsored California Governor's Debate Watch Thursday, May 14th, 2026 @ 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm Round Table Pizza Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Join us to watch the last California Governor's Debate on Thursday, May 14 at Round Table Pi… Read more California Governor's Debate Watch Calendar Contributed all ages Sponsored free San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Sunday, May 17th, 2026 @ 10:00 am – 4:00 pm San Mateo JACC Gardeners' Hall Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Read more San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Calendar Contributed free seniors rsvp required Sponsored Book Club with Author Caroline Paul Tuesday, June 16th, 2026 @ 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Peninsula Jewish Community Center Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Join New York Times bestselling author Caroline Paul for a lively discussion of her book Tou… Read more Book Club with Author Caroline Paul Latest News US Border Patrol chief Michael Banks is resigning, in latest DHS leadership change Vance promotes Trump administration's work to counter fraud while criticizing Democrats in Maine Denver runway fatality reveals a weakness in airport security The Latest: Xi and Trump summit focuses on business links as Chinese leader issues Taiwan warning Oklahoma's Richard Glossip, who was nearly executed 3 times, granted bond while awaiting retrial A.J. Ewing hits 1st big league home run and Mets beat Tigers 9-4 New Mexico politicians grapple with oil windfall from Iran war that's both 'awesome' and awkward Cisco leads Wall Street to more records and the Dow back to 50,000 Recent Comments on our Stories JustMike650 said: Lots of homeless will need to be re-routed as many call that HOME. View more Jorg said: Compared to Trump’s steady decline, have you ever wondered why President Obama enjoyed such a comfortable majority of voters, both directly an… View more JustMike650 said: A good place to start is for parents to introduce their children to the https://www.riekes.org/ View more JustMike650 said: 3 years ago Redwood hores had a 4 way intersection on Marine Parkway and Shell Parkway and they TRIED placing/attaching TWO TIn CANS to each p… View more Mike Harris said: Re: Office of MEA.As the county is deciding who to elect as the new County Supernatant of Education, this is a question to present to each of … View more Latest e-Edition San Mateo Daily Journal To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. The Daily Journal in your inbox Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! You must select at least one email list. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Submit An Event If you have an event you'd like to list on the site, submit it now! Go to form Calendar May 2026 Sun S Mon M Tue T Wed W Thu T Fri F Sat S 1 Fri 2 Sat 3 Sun 4 Mon 5 Tue 6 Wed 7 Thu 8 Fri 9 Sat 10 Sun 11 Mon 12 Tue 13 Wed 14 Thu 15 Fri 16 Sat 17 Sun 18 Mon 19 Tue 20 Wed 21 Thu 22 Fri 23 Sat 24 Sun 25 Mon 26 Tue 27 Wed 28 Thu 29 Fri 30 Sat 31 Sun Browse Today's events Submit Latest Classified Ads NEED MAINTENANCE WORKER WITH COMMERCIAL EXPERIENCE Werner 225 wt capacity 24’ aluminum extension ladder 1 pair Levi’s “Superbell" Jeans Wooden Ice Box, vintage in good condition. Go Pro Hero 3 camera “Pride Maxima” Power Scooter "Delta" Milwaukee 20” band saw "General" Table Saw - model 350 Bulletin Stocks Market Data by TradingView Sections Home News Sports Business Arts & Entertainment Celebrations Community Obituaries Lifestyle Opinion Advertising Features Online Features Multimedia Services Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Subscribe Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Calendar Marketplace Email Alerts Search Weather Contact Information smdailyjournal.com 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123 San Mateo, CA 94402 Phone: 650-344-5200 Email: info@ Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 San Mateo Daily Journal 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123, San Mateo, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! First name Last name * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Confirm Email Address Confirm your email address. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close