--- page 1 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/redwood-city-council-renews-police-drone-and-body-camera-
contract/article_4c927e6d-1ace-4898-bd73-57887b3f2e63.html
Redwood City Council renews police drone and body
camera contract
By Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff
Apr 17, 2026
 
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy
Accept
Deny Non-Essential

--- page 2 ---
The Redwood City Police Department will renew its contract for drone and body-
worn cameras, to balance public and officer safety through technology, with a
vote from City Council Monday. 
The police department’s annual military equipment use report was reviewed by
councilmembers, who heard stories of how the tools and technology have directly
improved responses to calls for services. 
In one instance, a call came in detailing an individual harmed and robbed by four
or five individuals. Within 30 seconds, a drone was deployed to the scene, even
before the call was relayed to police, Redwood City police Sgt. Jeff Boyce said. 
The drone was able to keep an eye on the suspects, who left the scene within 30
seconds, and witnessed them throw the stolen property over a fence, which would
have gone unseen by an officer on foot or in the car, Boyce said. 
“It’s just an amazing story that just would have never been resolved had it not
been for the drones,” Boyce said. 
Police Chief Kristina Bell also shared how the drones have improved the
department’s ability to find missing individuals or keep track of individuals in
crisis, without having to deploy a fleet of police cars and while lowering
escalation. 
Of the 608 drone deployments between June and December 2025, 83 were for
citizen assists or welfare checks. Eight were to search for missing persons. 
Drones have also been used to identify illegal use of fireworks, particularly during
the Fourth of July, which Councilmember Diane Howard applauded ahead of the
summer months. 
“The value is just incredible,” Howard said. “We just don’t have enough police
officers to be put on every corner of Redwood City, and I’m so glad we’re getting
more.” 
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy

--- page 3 ---
The renewed agreement with Axon Enterprise is for five years of support with
continued body-worn camera operations and the acquisition of 11 more drones.
The most recent agreement expired Dec. 31, 2025, and the renewed agreement
retroactively approves the partnership that has continued with the city in the
past four months. 
Drones were first approved by the City Council in April 2024. 
For body-worn camera services and the limited drone program, the city currently
spends approximately $231,000 annually. The renewed agreement increases the
annual cost to $712,000, according to a staff report. 
The proposed five-year amended agreement with Axon totals $3.56 million, and
staff is budgeting approximately $3.7 million to consider taxes or changes in
equipment or implementation costs. 
Funding has been identified to cover the costs for the first 2 1/2 years of the
agreement. The remaining balance remains unfunded, totaling approximately
$1.6 million for the remaining time in the five-year contract. 
Councilmember Chris Sturken raised concerns that the falloff in secured funding
closely coincides with the city’s looming deficit and budgetary concerns. 
“I’m a little concerned about making such a commitment right now, not knowing
how we’re going to pay for it all,” Sturken said. “I think it’s important that we are
being mindful of our budget and living within our means.” 
Councilmember Jeff Gee added that budget plans need to proactively include
costs of maintenance ahead of time so the council isn’t surprised by future
budgets. 
“As we adopt more technology, one of the things that go with it is increased costs,
software updates, its useful life,” Gee said. “As I’ve talked at this dais about
looking at lifespan equipment and software and to plan for it, we’re going to have
to do that here.” 
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy

--- page 4 ---
The costs are worthwhile, councilmembers expressed. All shared their
appreciation for the positive results from the technology.
“My natural disposition when I hear military equipment is reflexively not wanting
that, however, I don’t think drones or body-worn cameras are military equipment,
those are police equipment,” Councilmember Isabella Chu said. “Those are just
good, modern tools.” 
While “anything that’s a tool can become a weapon,” Chu shared her trust in the
police department after seeing how these tools have reduced car chases and saved
lives. She said it will be important that guardrails are put in place to ensure the
tools remain useful and have a positive impact. 
“Right now, we have an amazing police department with good leadership,” Chu
said. “The trick is to structure laws and people so that it’s not dependent on good
people … that there’s protections built in place.” 
The renewal agreement was approved unanimously by councilmembers. 
“This is going to make our police department’s job and the fire department’s job,
our first responders, it’s going to make their work more efficient, safer and will
help us learn from it so we can keep getting better with our responses,” Mayor
Elmer Martinez Saballos said.
 
ana@smdailyjournal.com
(65) 344-5200 ext. 106
MORE INFORMATION
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy

--- page 5 ---
Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff
Daily Journal staff
Redwood City police set to purchase military equipment, drones
Drone helps police arrest juveniles, capture contraband in Redwood City
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy