--- page 1 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/national/security-camera-hack-exposes-hospitals-workplaces-
schools/article_1e22f0de-81ea-11eb-91e8-ef1cf389243c.html
Security camera hack exposes hospitals, workplaces,
schools
By MATT O'BRIEN and FRANK BAJAK Associated Press
Mar 10, 2021
 
Hackers aiming to call attention to the dangers of mass surveillance said they
were able to peer into hospitals, schools, factories, jails and corporate offices after
they broke into the systems of a security-camera startup.
That California startup, Verkada, said Wednesday it is investigating the scope of
the breach, first reported by Bloomberg, and has notified law enforcement and its
customers.
Opt-Out Signal Honored
This website utilises technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalisation, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy
Accept
Deny Non-Essential

--- page 2 ---
Swiss hacker Tillie Kottmann, a member of the group that calls itself APT-69420
Arson Cats, described it in an online chat with The Associated Press as a small
collective of "primarily queer hackers, not backed by any nations or capital but
instead backed by the desire for fun, being gay and a better world."
They were able to gain access to a Verkada "super" administrator account using
valid credentials found online, Kottmann said. Verkada said in a statement that it
has since disabled all internal administrator accounts to prevent any
unauthorized access.
But for two days, the hackers said, they were able to peer unhindered into live
feeds from potentially tens of thousands of cameras, including many that were
watching sensitive locations such as hospitals and schools. Kottmann said that
included outdoor and indoor cameras at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut, where 26 first-grade students and six educators were
killed in 2012 by a gunman in one of the deadliest school shootings in U.S.
history.
The school district's superintendent didn't return a call or emailed requests for
comment Wednesday.
One of Verkada's affected customers, the San Francisco web infrastructure and
security company Cloudflare, said the compromised Verkada cameras were
watching entrances and main thoroughfares to some of its offices that have been
closed for nearly a year due to the pandemic.
"As soon as we became aware of the compromise, we disabled the cameras and
disconnected them from office networks," said spokesperson Laurel Toney. "No
customer data or processes have been impacted by this incident."
Twitter said it permanently suspended Kottmann's account, which posted
materials gathered in the hack, for violating its rules against ban evasion, which
typically happens when users start a new account to circumvent an earlier
suspension. Kottmann had earlier received a message from Twitter suspending
the account for violating its rules against the distribution of hacked material, the
hacker said.
Opt-Out Signal Honored
This website utilises technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalisation, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy

--- page 3 ---
Verkada, based in San Mateo, California, has pitched its cloud-based surveillance
service as part of the next generation of workplace security. Its software detects
when people are in the camera's view, and a "Person History" feature enables
customers to recognize and track individual faces and other attributes, such as
clothing color and likely gender. Not all customers use the facial recognition
feature.
The company attracted negative attention last year when video surveillance
industry news site IPVM reported that Verkada employees had passed around
photos of female coworkers collected by the company's own in-office cameras and
made sexually explicit comments about them.
Cybersecurity expert Elisa Costante said it's worrisome that this week's hack
wasn't sophisticated and simply involved using valid credentials to access a huge
trove of data stored on a cloud server.
"What is disturbing is to see how much real-life data can go into the wrong hands
and how easy it can be," said Costante, vice president of research at Forescout.
"It's a wake up call to make sure that whenever you are collecting this much data
we need to have basic security hygiene."
Kottmann said the hacker collective, active since 2020, doesn't set out after
specific targets. Instead, it scans organizations on the internet for known
vulnerabilities and then "just narrow down and dig in on interesting targets."
 
Opt-Out Signal Honored
This website utilises technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well
as for analytics, personalisation, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy