Surveillance in parks expands in San Mateo | Local News | smdailyjournal.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP About Us Contact Us Subscribe Advertise Jobs Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram RSS 65° San Mateo, CA (94402) Today Partly cloudy skies. High 64F. Winds WNW at 15 to 25 mph.. Tonight A few passing clouds. Low 52F. W winds at 10 to 20 mph, decreasing to 5 to 10 mph. Updated: May 13, 2026 @ 10:40 am Full Forecast Site search Search Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Home Delivery Mail Subscription Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP Featured Surveillance in parks expands in San Mateo City’s security cameras expand beyond retail to include more parks and recreation spaces By Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author twitter Author email Jul 22, 2025 Jul 22, 2025 1 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin The surveillance camera at Martin Luther King Park is connected to the San Mateo Police Department for real-time monitoring. Alyse DiNapoli/Daily Journal Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin While the presence of security cameras at retail centers is now ubiquitous, San Mateo is starting to take a similar approach for its parks and open spaces. The city’s police department purchased surveillance camera trailers last year, stationing them in areas such as the Hillsdale Shopping Center and near TJ Maxx on Concar Drive in an effort to curb retail theft. But last month, the Parks and Recreation Department expanded its own, lesser-known surveillance camera program with a new $91,000 contract with San Mateo-based Verkada. While the department has had cameras at Central Park, Beresford Park and Seal Point for a few years, the new agreement will replace the Beresford camera and add more permanent cameras to Martin Luther King Park, as well as Joinville and Parkside Aquatic Park. The camera at Martin Luther King Park was in part motivated by higher rates of crime compared to other parks, Officer Jeanine Ovalle, a spokesperson for the San Mateo Police Department, said. But overall, most of the camera placements have not been a direct response to increased crime rates, instead acting as a useful deterrent that allows more efficient use of resources, Parks and Recreation Director Joanne Magrini said. “As cities, we have limited resources, and we’re always looking to make better use of our resources,” Magrini said. The cameras connect to the police department’s Real Time Information Center, another new development, which Ovalle said allows law enforcement to monitor a situation before officers are able to arrive at the scene. “We have dispatchers or light-duty officers manning it. They are supplementing our dispatch services and providing information to officers,” Ovalle said. “It’s a center that allows for additional eyes on a call for service.” Camera footage is stored for 30 days, however, it’s still possible to access it under certain circumstances for crime investigations. And while the cameras have facial recognition technology, Ovalle said it has yet to be used. According to Verkada’s website, the cameras’ facial recognition capabilities allow for “person of interest only” face searches, which blur other faces that don’t match the provided description. Oversight ordinances In response to the concerns over law enforcement’s heightened use of sophisticated surveillance technology, many cities, such as San Francisco, Palo Alto and Davis, have passed ordinances known as community control over police surveillance, which are meant to impose specific guardrails and oversight for law enforcement technologies. Some of the policies require annual public reporting, community advisory committees and City Council discussions that provide options for public comment. And Assembly Bill 481, signed into law in 2021, now requires jurisdictions to detail how they plan to fund and use military equipment, including drones, and provide an annual report on its use, including complaints and concerns — though, surveillance cameras used by the department don’t fall under the legislation. According to San Mateo’s 2024 report, no complaints on its military equipment were received. But the city doesn’t have a CCOPS ordinance, and because its contracts for the cameras were technically under $100,000, they didn’t require explicit City Council approval, which would have triggered opportunity for public comment. Beryl Lipton, senior investigative researcher at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said the cost for such technologies is getting less expensive, and it doesn’t hurt that Verkada’s headquarters is in San Mateo, likely boosting the relationship between the security firm and the city. The technology provides an audit trail that shows who accessed footage, when it was accessed and for what reason. But there are no regular annual reports and no independent oversight committee that ensures the access was appropriate. Lipton said without clear measures of progress — including understanding if and how crime has decreased as a result of the cameras — or regular reporting and oversight, such practices are ripe for misuse. Recommended for you “When they’re in that preliminary stage, they usually don’t set up a good process for evaluating success,” she said. No concerns Ovalle said the police department has observed what seems like a decrease in crime, however, it’s hard to know if that’s a direct result of the new cameras. San Mateo resident Sandra, who didn’t want to give her last name, said she doesn’t mind the cameras at MLK Park, as it gives her peace of mind when she is with her young daughter at the playground. “I think it’s great,” she said. Councilmember Nicole Fernandez, who represents the district where Martin Luther King Park is located, said she hasn’t heard any negative feedback about the cameras yet. While it makes sense for larger cities with higher crime rates to have stricter ordinances around law enforcement’s use of surveillance technology, she hasn’t had the same concerns for San Mateo’s police department. “We don’t have the crime rates of San Francisco or San Jose,” Fernandez said. “If my constituents are concerned, I’m happy to respond to that, but I haven’t heard any concerns yet.” Downsides? But the downsides to such proactive surveillance aren’t just hypothetical, Lipton said, and any department, regardless of its crime rate or size, can abuse surveillance technology. Many cities throughout the county have now adopted automated license plate recognition systems as a way to more easily locate suspects for a wide range of crimes, and while it’s helped secure countless arrests, there have also been concerns about data sharing practices within Bay Area law enforcement agencies over the years. At least 10 ALPR data sharing violations occurred across several Bay Area cities and counties, including Contra Costa and Santa Clara-based agencies, according to EFF data. In 2021, Marin County Sheriff Robert Doyle was sued after findings surfaced that his agency was providing ALPR data to hundreds of federal and out-state agencies, such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection. A lawsuit from 2020 claimed San Francisco law enforcement illegally accessed video camera footage to surveil protesters, and in New Orleans, law enforcement allegedly violated the city’s ordinance that its facial recognition technology surveillance must only apply toward suspects of certain crimes, instead using it for broader monitoring purposes, the Washington Post reported in May. Surveillance becoming commonplace While such surveillance approaches are becoming more commonplace nationwide, Lipton said, it still necessitates proactive guardrails and oversight, especially as many, including San Mateo, expand surveillance programs. The city has also recently gained momentum on its Connect San Mateo program, which grants law enforcement access to individuals’ and business’ private surveillance cameras for those who choose to opt in, creating a vast security network beyond the agency’s own cameras. “Any sort of surveillance and data in general is very leaky, and once you start giving people permission to access it, it quickly becomes very difficult to get a handle on who actually has access to it,” Lipton said. Verkada has also faced complaints from the Federal Trade Commission over data security violations. According to the complaint, the firm’s inadequate security practices allowed a hacker to access security cameras and view patients in “sensitive locations,” including psychiatric hospitals and women’s health clinics, which included access to over 150,000 live cameras. According to the company’s website, the two parties finalized a settlement in which Verkada completed enhanced security compliance, and “agreed to adopt the FTC’s “information security program” protocol, subject to biennial reviews by a third-party assessor,” it said. alyse@smdailyjournal.com (650) 344-5200 ext. 102 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin More information Is county behind in AI boom? Most of San Mateo County hasn’t gained much traction in the Bay Area’s burgeoning artificial intelligence boom, widening an existing chasm bet… Tags Surveillance Closed-circuit Television Police Verkada Facial Recognition System Automatic Number-plate Recognition Justice National Security Law Law Enforcement Politics Crime Issues In Ethics Social Issues Government San Francisco Bay Area Public Sphere Privacy Legal Action Criminal Law Crime Prevention Criminal Justice Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author twitter Author email Follow Alyse DiNapoli, Daily Journal staff Recommended for you × Post a comment as Guest Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching Thank you for visiting the Daily Journal. Please purchase a Premium Subscription to continue reading. To continue, please log in, or sign up for a new account. We offer one free story view per month. If you register for an account, you will get two additional story views. After those three total views, we ask that you support us with a subscription. A subscription to our digital content is so much more than just access to our valuable content. It means you’re helping to support a local community institution that has, from its very start, supported the betterment of our society. Thank you very much! Sign Up Log In Purchase a Subscription Want to join the discussion? Only subscribers can view and post comments on articles. Subscribe Today Already a subscriber? Login Here Trending Stories Articles Images Videos Commented Articles See’s Candies at Hillsdale Shopping Center celebrates 70 years: San Mateo location opened just after mall was constructed San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims San Mateo County buys property for Pride Center, sobering station: Burlingame site could be considered for Horizon's treatment center over proposed San Mateo location Rail safety cost drops: Updated design for grade separation in San Bruno and South San Francisco saves critical dollars 2 candidates vie for San Mateo County judge position: San Mateo County Deputy District Attorney Brian Donnellan and Santa Clara Chief Deputy District Attorney Jay Boyarsky Millbrae mayor resigning: Reuben Holober is stepping down from City Council to pursue job in public finance Half Moon Bay repeals rent control: Rental registry requirements also removed in 3-2 vote Weird walk to the governor’s office David Attenborough, the excited but hushed voice of nature programs, turns 100 Burlingame baseball making the most of a bad situation Images Videos Commented Quotes from Trump, other Republicans (25) Support our troops (15) My mother’s faith (13) Weird walk to the governor’s office (12) ‘Disappointed and disgusted’: San Mateo County Democrats respond to sexual assault allegations against former gubernatorial candidate Eric Swalwell (12) A reflection on two recent Daily Journal letters (11) Voter suppression fear mongering (10) They picked a fight with the wrong neighborhood (7) Voter ID is wrong for California (7) You thinking of the next governor yet? (7) David Canepa’s campaign thriving (6) The San Mateo Daily Journal and AI (6) 19th Avenue/Fashion Island project finalizing design: San Mateo is putting finishing touches on design of major bike lane and congestion improvement project (6) San Mateo residents show growing support for controversial treatment facility (5) Past time to fix California public instruction (5) Our paleo president (5) China has a grip on the United States (5) Diane Papan faces challenge from Jabra Muhawieh in District 21 Assembly race (5) Historic ordinance: Don’t be fooled (5) Former San Mateo County sheriff files defamation claim against county (5) Canepa or Irizarry? (4) Editorial: San Mateo’s historic ordinance dangerously incomplete (4) We are headed toward a global collapse of civilization (4) San Mateo weighs in on transit wishlist: City leaders hope for better connectivity across San Mateo Bridge if regional measure passes (4) Héctor Camacho for San Mateo County superintendent (4) California to provide free diapers to newborns at more than 60 hospitals (4) SAVE Act (4) Disagree with Daily Journal’s endorsement (4) Epstein Ballroom (3) David Canepa is the right choice for assessor (3) The truth about affordability (3) Burlingame High School's Bay Academy program to relocate students amid parent concerns (3) Projected San Mateo deficit balloons: $16M shortfall expected next year (3) Stop complaining about overcrowding (3) Sequoia Union High School District Board of Trustees discuss cellphone policy: Trustees interested in making policy uniform districtwide, majority not inclined to ban ‘bell to bell’ (3) Tennessee enacts new US House map carving up majority-Black district in Memphis (3) California K-12 schools see largest enrollment decline since pandemic (3) Good heavens, this cannot be allowed (3) Crunch time (3) San Mateo County Office of Education: What and why (3) San Mateo Union High School District retracts plan to relocate Bay Academy's special needs students (3) San Mateo County should establish an independent redistricting commission (3) San Mateo adjusts capital improvement budget amid funding shifts (3) Nancy Pelosi comments on White House Correspondents’ Dinner shooting (3) Skeletons never really stay buried (3) U.S. reckoning (3) Jim Irizarry unfit to be assessor (3) Against the 101/92 connector improvement (3) San Mateo County studies e-conveyance devices, again: Proposed ordinance would largely reiterate state law, give minimal local restrictions on proper device use (3) When everyone is Maxxing (3) A little personal fiction (3) Trump survives a third attempt on his life (3) San Mateo weighs in on 101/92 connector project: Controversial project won’t take homes but concerns remain over congestion claims (3) Iran’s uranium enrichment threatens world peace (3) Elect a professional, not a politician (3) San Mateo County paves way for sales tax increase: Board of Supervisors can place tax increase on ballots if desired, with split board approval (3) Arguments in for, against Redwood City School District parcel tax: Per-square-foot tax could generate $12.2 million annually in new revenue (2) Drivers struggle with rising gas prices: San Mateo County averaging around $6 per gallon (2) Loan helps Caltrain’s budget: Agency projects a balanced budget with state assistance, still needs long-term solutions (2) Vote like you care (2) Leadership means fighting like the moment demands (2) Proposed HUD ruling threatens to destabilize housing for mixed status families (2) How the Supreme Court ruling could affect state’s gerrymandered districts (2) Agree with Daily Journal’s endorsement (2) San Mateo’s parking debacle becomes reality (2) Xavier rhymes with savior (2) Iran vs. Project 2025 (2) Stabbing at Redwood City Safeway Saturday night (2) 1st TV debate in race for governor mostly bypassed California’s serious issues (2) VA healthcare training wheels (2) Where is our humanity? (2) Caltrans plans maintenance work on Highway 101 in San Mateo County (2) This media coverage has been badly skewed (2) Proposed recovery center (2) Withdraw Baywood historic nomination (2) Protecting my peace (2) Belmont to revise Climate Action Plan: City updates plan to align with stronger state goals and increase EV adoption, non-vehicle use and tree planting (2) San Mateo working toward El Camino Real and 17th Avenue improvements: City’s recent talks with Caltrans yield promise for long-awaited changes (2) Preparing for the end (2) With Californians paying sky-high gas prices, now is not the time for new oil regulations (2) Shots fired as gunman charges toward ballroom at White House correspondents' dinner. Trump unharmed (1) How to incorporate personal finance class (1) Biden and the Taliban (1) Social justice goals in San Mateo (1) Sequoia junior Hennelly takes one for the team (1) Former Marriott Hotel to become apartments, townhomes: New proposal would bring 234 residential units on 10-acre site (1) Burlingame sees new neighborhood with mixed-use development, street redesign in North Rollins area (1) Marc Berman defends District 23 assembly seat against Republican challengers (1) Elk Grove Democratic Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen has first-in-the-nation plan to boost payments for child support (1) San Carlos picks Laureola Park for aquatic center: High level site decision invokes master planning process to ensue (1) Decision Day (1) San Mateo Daily Journal endorsements for the June 2 election (1) South San Francisco’s plans for 800 housing units close to breaking ground, but funding remains a challenge (1) Foster City prioritizes bike, pedestrian projects: Council identifies 6 bike lane efforts along parts of Beach Park, Edgewater and Foster City boulevards (1) San Mateo County mourns the passing of former schools superintendent Nancy Magee (1) Disagree with cellphone ban (1) Featured Events Calendar Contributed all ages Sponsored free San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Sunday, May 17th, 2026 @ 10:00 am – 4:00 pm San Mateo JACC Gardeners' Hall Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Read more San Mateo Bonsai Club - Bonsai Show Calendar Contributed free seniors rsvp required Sponsored Book Club with Author Caroline Paul Tuesday, June 16th, 2026 @ 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Peninsula Jewish Community Center Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Join New York Times bestselling author Caroline Paul for a lively discussion of her book Tou… Read more Book Club with Author Caroline Paul Latest News Utah woman who published a book on grief after husband’s death to be sentenced for his murder The Latest: Trump arrives in China to meet with Xi in Beijing AP Entertainment SummaryBrief at 1:52 p.m. EDT Dodgers give Shohei Ohtani a DH break for 2 days amid his offensive slump Drug counselor who delivered ‘Friends’ star Matthew Perry the ketamine doses that would kill him gets 2 years in prison Former private prison executive David Venturella will become ICE's acting leader Senate is set to confirm Trump pick Warsh as chairman of the Federal Reserve, following Powell Swiatek steamrolls Pegula in straight sets to reach Italian Open semifinals Recent Comments on our Stories CA Is Burning said: Shut down Newsoms' high speed rail and build a bridge from South SF / Candlestick to San Lorenzo / San Leandro. View more Sue Lempert said: Michael was a model city council member. He only wanted what was best for his city and he leaves a long list of accomplishments. He will be missed/ View more KarenC said: The supposed point of the 101/92 project is to relieve traffic congestion. Since no modifications on the Hayward bridge are planned, adding th… View more Yosemite Says said: The bigger problems of the Top Two primary are its throttling of small parties and its forced increase of dependency on large donors. View more Terence Y said: Here we go again…with Mike Forster repeating easily debunked Democrat talking points regarding the SAVE Act. If anything, the SAVE Act increas… View more Latest e-Edition San Mateo Daily Journal To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. The Daily Journal in your inbox Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! You must select at least one email list. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Submit An Event If you have an event you'd like to list on the site, submit it now! Go to form Calendar May 2026 Sun S Mon M Tue T Wed W Thu T Fri F Sat S 1 Fri 2 Sat 3 Sun 4 Mon 5 Tue 6 Wed 7 Thu 8 Fri 9 Sat 10 Sun 11 Mon 12 Tue 13 Wed 14 Thu 15 Fri 16 Sat 17 Sun 18 Mon 19 Tue 20 Wed 21 Thu 22 Fri 23 Sat 24 Sun 25 Mon 26 Tue 27 Wed 28 Thu 29 Fri 30 Sat 31 Sun Browse Today's events Submit Latest Classified Ads Wooden Ice Box, vintage in good condition. Go Pro Hero 3 camera “Pride Maxima” Power Scooter "Delta" Milwaukee 20” band saw "General" Table Saw - model 350 "Jet" Spindle Sander ; $370.00 "Delta" Sander ; $1,000.00 "Delta" Planer ; $300.00 Bulletin Stocks Market Data by TradingView Sections Home News Sports Business Arts & Entertainment Celebrations Community Obituaries Lifestyle Opinion Advertising Features Online Features Multimedia Services Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Subscribe Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Calendar Marketplace Email Alerts Search Weather Contact Information smdailyjournal.com 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123 San Mateo, CA 94402 Phone: 650-344-5200 Email: info@ Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 San Mateo Daily Journal 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123, San Mateo, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! First name Last name * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Confirm Email Address Confirm your email address. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close