Redwood City residents urge review of Flock Safety contract | Local News | smdailyjournal.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP About Us Contact Us Subscribe Advertise Jobs Log In My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved Items Subscribe Manage Service Log Out Subscribe Manage Service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram RSS 58° Clear San Mateo, CA (94402) Today Sun and a few passing clouds. High 74F. Winds WNW at 10 to 20 mph.. Tonight Partly cloudy skies during the evening will give way to cloudy skies overnight. Low near 55F. Winds W at 10 to 15 mph. Updated: September 14, 2026 @ 12:00 am Full Forecast Site search Search Home About Us Contact Us Subscribe Jobs Elections Subscribe Digital Print Home Delivery Mail Subscription Gift a Digital Subscription News Local News Community Bay Area State National World Opinion Columnists Editorials Guest Perspectives Other Voices Letters to the Editor Sports Local National E-Edition Events Calendar SMDJ Events Submit Event Crossword A&E Lifestyle Celebrations Community Food Food Story Map Health Home And Garden Pet Tip Obits On smdailyjournal.com Submit an Obituary Advertising Ad inquiry form Make payment SMDJ Events Classifieds Place an Ad Place an Employment Ad Fictitious Business Name Statement Name Change Notice Probates and Summons Support FOOD MAP Prev Previous Previous Different ways to think about waste: Pacifica artist uses va… Pacifica artist Vanessa Woods uses photography, collage and … Next Next Up Next Up San Mateo-Foster City School District task force to review s… A task force studying technology use in the San Mateo-Foster… Featured Redwood City residents urge review of Flock Safety contract By Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author email Jul 29, 2026 Jul 29, 2026 Updated Aug 14, 2026 2 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Photo credit: Tony Webster on Visualhunt / CC BY-SA Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin With privacy and safety concerns over unauthorized access to automated license plate reader data, Redwood City residents asked the City Council to cancel its contract with Flock Safety and reevaluate the city’s need for the technology altogether. Residents showed up to the City Council meeting Monday evening to ask councilmember to not renew their contract for the automated license plate readers in September. The concern follows national scrutiny over Flock Safety , a surveillance technology company, over mass data collection and sharing with law enforcement beyond city limits, including federal agencies. “Automated License Plate Readers have become one of the most pervasive surveillance tools used by federal agencies to surveil and ultimately detain the most vulnerable members of our communities,” Diane Savage, an organizer with Indivisible Mid-Peninsula. The Redwood City Council approved its contract with Flock for 25 cameras in 2023, and police said the technology would help them identify vehicles involved in crimes. The city also looked to include safeguards to protect resident privacy as much as possible, Mayor Elmer Martínez Saballos said. “I know we’re finding ourselves in a really difficult landscape with these federal agencies that we’re seeing operate in our communities right now and that’s driving so much of the concerns from the neighbors I’m hearing from,” Martínez Saballos said. “I also believe the City Council, when we reviewed this tech, we had protections and safeguards put into place.” Whether those guardrails have been effective will be the focus of any future council decision, he said. The city’s policy on the technology states that immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment, intimidation and use based on a protected class such as race, sex and religion are prohibited. It also states that the technology cannot identify individuals through facial recognition. However, outside law enforcement agencies were found to have improperly accessed data generated by the automated license plate reader system in numerous cities, without permission from the respective law enforcement agencies. Recommended for you Flock Safety acknowledged the issue in March, stating some California agencies “had their camera networks inadvertently accessible to out-of-state law enforcement agencies for a period of time,” according to a company statement. The company said it was “impossible to determine a specific cause” for the data breach. For the concerned residents, the threat of potential data breaches is reason enough to cancel the contract. “Many of us have been sold the lie that we have to give up some of our privacy in the name of safety but the choice between privacy and safety is a false choice,” Emily Morris said during public comment. “The reality is the ALPRs both compromise our privacy and make us all less safe.” There has been no evidence of unauthorized access into Redwood City’s technology data, according to Redwood City police. Still, the department is reviewing the license plate reader program, and a full update will be presented at the city’s Police Advisory Committee meeting Aug. 12. Following the swarm of public comment at the City Council’s meeting Monday, Martínez Saballos said he is working with city staff to look into the matter and will be paying close attention to the PAC’s meeting Aug. 12. “If we do see a robust [turnout] of the community at this next PAC meeting, that would give us even more of a green light to organize a town hall on the subject, to have a study session on this as a council,” Martínez Saballos said. “If there are enough questions, that means there’s an appetite in the community to do education outreach and gather input.” The city’s contract with Flock Safety is slated to renew in September, but would go toward the City Council one way or another for final approval, Martínez Saballos said. Any redirection following the Aug. 12 meeting will need to be made swiftly, Martínez Saballos said. “It’s a quick timeline but we’re ready to act quickly and receive that input depending on what we see at the PAC meeting,” Martínez Saballos said. ana@smdailyjournal.com (65) 344-5200 ext. 106 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Linkedin More information License plate reader helps catch theft suspects in Redwood City Two San Jose men were arrested Tuesday after Redwood City officers used automated license plate reader technology to track a vehicle linked to… California sues, says El Cajon police are illegally sharing license plate info with other agencies Flock camera data has insufficient systemic oversight in San Mateo County, grand jury finds Redwood City to let Flock Safety contract expire over automatic license plate readers concerns Tags Redwood City Flock Safety Automated License Plate Readers Alpr Redwood City City Council Police Advisory Committee Privacy Concerns Surveillance Technology License Plate Reader Data Public Comment Municipal Contract Data Access Automatic Number-plate Recognition Technology Privacy Redwood City, California Contract Law Enforcement Agency National Security Data Law Enforcement Data Breach Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff Daily Journal staff Author email Follow Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff Recommended for you × Post a comment as Guest Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching Thank you for visiting the Daily Journal. Please purchase a Premium Subscription to continue reading. To continue, please log in, or sign up for a new account. We offer one free story view per month. If you register for an account, you will get two additional story views. After those three total views, we ask that you support us with a subscription. A subscription to our digital content is so much more than just access to our valuable content. It means you’re helping to support a local community institution that has, from its very start, supported the betterment of our society. Thank you very much! Sign Up Log In Purchase a Subscription Want to join the discussion? Only subscribers can view and post comments on articles. Subscribe Today Already a subscriber? Login Here Trending Stories Articles Images Videos Commented Articles Mastodon tooth found in San Mateo County creek bed Parent group wants Sequoia Union High School District superintendent out: Community members to share efforts to recall 3 trustees DA will not file charges in Foster City Sea Spray Lane fire Wizeguyz Collectors Club to open in downtown San Bruno The politics of politics Majority of San Bruno’s $24.5M community fund from YouTube Bayhill campus project spent on cable service debt Peninsula to see new theater company: Broadway on the Bay could put on shows by August 2027 San Mateo County death notices — Sept. 4 to Sept. 8, 2026 Belmont weighs parcel tax for Barrett Community Center Gilead opens new research center at Foster City headquarters Images Videos Commented Our US oligarchs (12) We can’t afford Socialism (11) Sign stealing (8) Focus on the real dangers of the road (7) A broken promise could cost some state counties and cities millions of dollars (7) Last word on Dolly Parton (7) Socialism is something to worry about (7) Incumbent takes on challenger for San Mateo Union trustee seat: Trustee Jennifer Jacobson, teacher Diana Harris in race to represent Area 3 on the San Mateo Union High School District (7) No new taxes (6) Fauci witch hunt (5) Data centers opposition (5) No to a DOGE for San Mateo (5) A safer way (5) How to argue with a neighbor (5) Caltrain hopes cost-cutting, non-fare initiatives can close $75 million annual operating deficit (4) Editorial: Harris, Proctor for San Mateo Union High School District board (4) A local mystery (4) Medicare for all? (4) Living wage for local democracy (4) Imagine (4) Bogus Board of Peace (4) Becker, Wiener back clean energy bills to cut electricity costs (4) Is socialism about protecting public goods? (4) Taxes on the ballot (4) What is the socialist agenda? (3) Getting real about Measure H (3) San Mateo County Community College District, union reach tentative deal (3) Finally, the end of career as identity? (3) Americans' satisfaction with schools is at a low point, new Gallup poll shows (3) The politics of politics (3) The challenge to San Mateo City Council on Measure H (3) Growth should enrich a community — not erase it (3) Asking for a friend ... (3) Fear not (3) Increased spending on state public schools has not raised achievement (3) Carlmont’s lunch table territory (3) Taxes in San Carlos (3) Donation requests (3) Plans for Burlingame Bayfront park move forward (3) You get what you need (3) My American Dream (3) Foster City police honor young couple who save father-son from drowning (3) Time to tilt the scale back toward the American worker (3) Kindness (3) BAAQMD threatens elder homeowners in San Mateo (3) Half Moon Bay advances housing element changes amid Our Lady of the Pillar Church lot dispute (3) Legal fight over 555 Kelly referendum ballots ensues in Half Moon Bay (2) San Mateo proposal to add housing to Burger King at 2817 El Camino Real (2) San Mateo County police reports • Saturday, Sept. 5, 2026 (2) How to improve healthcare (2) Rep Kevin Mullin talks immigration, Trump at Redwood City town hall (2) Character of change (2) Taxing November ballot (2) Increasing age-friendly businesses (2) The oldest home in San Mateo: A look inside the historic William Sands home — and the life of its steward (2) DA will not file charges in Foster City Sea Spray Lane fire (2) Affording service (2) If Half Moon Bay voters say no to 555 Kelly, what happens next? (2) Can we speed DACA renewals? (2) San Carlos furthers Crestview Drive design plans (2) Some agreement on single-payer healthcare (2) Bravo, Craig (2) The other lawsuit that should happen (2) Dignity for all people (2) Our monuments (2) The sad story of Dr. Fauci (2) SamTrans sees state transit funding cuts amid budget changes (2) DJ Q&A: Jennifer McCabe, director and chief curator of SFO Museum (2) Belmont weighs parcel tax for Barrett Community Center (2) Burlingame City Council passes Vision Zero plan to eliminate traffic death by 2040 (2) One issue with lowering speed on California Drive (2) Burlingame distracted driving operation nets 27 citations (2) Enforcement, not speed reductions (2) Democrats can’t resolve question wildfire liability (1) Lindsay Clancy jury goes home after a fourth day without a verdict and signals an impasse (1) Mike Guingona and Jason Holt vie for San Mateo County Community College District seat (1) Editorial: Guingona for Area 2 community college trustee (1) We are all Socialists now (1) More on single-payer healthcare (1) SamTrans seeks public input on Reimagine Dumbarton corridor between Redwood City and East Palo Alto (1) Another train-vehicle collision at Broadway intersection in Burlingame (1) Back to school (1) States take Meta to trial in California in the biggest fight yet over social media harms to children (1) Ashes to Ashes (1) Residence Card Verification: What It Is and Why It Matters (1) San Mateo County to consider establishing Regional Firefighting Training Center (1) Unusual dragonfly swarms sweep across California after warm spring rains (1) Diane Papan’s e-bike safety bill heads to Newsom (1) Lurching here and there (1) Noncitizen voting claims animate Trump's attacks on midterms and set up potential result challenges (1) Jefferson high district seeks fresh taxes (1) 2 in race to replace longtime high school trustee: Alison Proctor, Kimo Rosenbaum vie to hold position on San Mateo Union High School District board (1) Build on San Mateo (1) San Carlos council asks for more info on e-bike incidents (1) Beverly Gerard, Dana Johnson vie for San Mateo County Board of Education seat (1) A lot happens in just 20 years (1) Featured Events Calendar Contributed family friendly for kids for teens seniors accessible 18 and over 21 and over rsvp required all ages budget date night free Sponsored September Nights on B Street Thursday, September 17th, 2026 @ 6:00 pm B Street between 1st and 3rd Aves Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Join us for September Nights on B Street with free music and entertainment for the whole family. Read more September Nights on B Street Calendar Contributed family friendly seniors 18 and over all ages date night Sponsored A Tribute to Fred Astaire Friday, September 18th, 2026 @ 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm Manny's 16th and Valencia $36.05 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin A Tribute to Fred Astaire. Friday September 18th at 8pm. Manny's at 3092 16th Street, San Fr… Read more A Tribute to Fred Astaire Calendar Contributed family friendly for kids for teens seniors accessible 21 and over all ages budget free Sponsored Summer's End Music Festival Saturday, September 19th, 2026 @ 11:00 am – 5:00 pm John L. Carter Memorial Park Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin Free Live Music, Complimentary Burgers & Family Fun at Half Moon Bay's Summer's End Musi… Read more Summer's End Music Festival Calendar Contributed free family friendly seniors all ages Sponsored Bonsai Show by The San Mateo Bonsai Club Sunday, September 20th, 2026 @ 10:00 am – 4:00 pm San Mateo JACC Gardener's Hall Free Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Linkedin - Beautiful Bonsai Trees on Display Read more Bonsai Show by The San Mateo Bonsai Club Latest News San Mateo-Foster City School District task force to review screen time, internet access Rediscovering the Peninsula: Street names in Burlingame, Millbrae, South San Francisco Belmont-Redwood Shores seeking applicants for vacant trustee seat DJ Q&A: JobTrain Medical Assistant instructor Natisa Rosco San Mateo County approves $8.1 million for 101 corridor projects San Mateo Daily Journal police reports: Sept. 12, 2026 Jefferson football looks to future with loss to powerhouse McClymonds Rally by Aragon football teams falls short against rival San Mateo Friday night Recent Comments on our Stories easygerd said: SUHSD is one of the richest school districts in the country, with ca. $350M per year. They gained a full $100M in just 5 years, while losing s… View more easygerd said: It's always funny when people belittle the litmus test, because they do not understand how a litmus test works. It's even funnier when they ar… View more CA Is Burning said: EZ - I'm not going to reply to all your false biased statements. It appears you do have selective apologist recall....War on terror, let's ref… View more MichKosk said: With all the money in this county spent on schools and the constant requests for more via bond measures, it is crazy to me that they don't hav… View more craigwiesner said: Hi Maddie - Thanks for sharing your story of hunting for a spot! Well done!! I hope the powers that be at school take note and perhaps get som… View more Latest e-Edition San Mateo Daily Journal To view our latest e-Edition click the image on the left. The Daily Journal in your inbox Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! You must select at least one email list. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Submit An Event If you have an event you'd like to list on the site, submit it now! Go to form Calendar September 2026 Sun S Mon M Tue T Wed W Thu T Fri F Sat S 1 Tue 2 Wed 3 Thu 4 Fri 5 Sat 6 Sun 7 Mon 8 Tue 9 Wed 10 Thu 11 Fri 12 Sat 13 Sun 14 Mon 15 Tue 16 Wed 17 Thu 18 Fri 19 Sat 20 Sun 21 Mon 22 Tue 23 Wed 24 Thu 25 Fri 26 Sat 27 Sun 28 Mon 29 Tue 30 Wed Browse Today's events Submit Latest Classified Ads Lead Industrial Designer GREEN MOUNTAIN LANDSCAPING Plastic Models; unbuilt; large collection Butcher block Top-a-box 30"x30" Bathroom scale $10 Gourmia Toaster/oven/air fryer $50 HONEST HANDYMAN DALY CITY Room for Rent Bulletin Stocks Market Data by TradingView Sections Home News Sports Business Arts & Entertainment Celebrations Community Obituaries Lifestyle Opinion Advertising Features Online Features Multimedia Services Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Subscribe Submission Forms Classifieds Place an Ad Calendar Marketplace Email Alerts Search Weather Contact Information smdailyjournal.com 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123 San Mateo, CA 94402 Phone: 650-344-5200 Email: info@smdailyjournal.com Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 San Mateo Daily Journal 1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Suite 123, San Mateo, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Offer Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! First name Last name * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Confirm Email Address Confirm your email address. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information * Phone Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Breaking News If it breaks, we'll send it to you. Join this email list to be kept abreast of breaking news. Sign up today! Daily Headlines Wake up to our carefully curated list of headlines with the Daily Journal's daily newsletter. All the top stories -- local news, local sports, lifestyle, opinions, obituaries, entertainment, plus regional/national/global info to keep you informed. Newsletter arrives every morning for your convenience. Sign up today! Daily Journal Sports Get updates on LOCAL SPORTS ! All the latest and greatest local sports headlines straight to your inbox. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, the Daily Journal will send you links to our best local sports stories. Sign up now! Marketing and Business Intelligence Would you like to receive our Marketing and Business Intelligence newsletter? The Daily Journal is proud to offer a newsletter providing vital information that will benefit your career, your business, and/or your organization. CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Promo code Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Purchase detail Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card Terms of service confirmation I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close