--- page 1 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/redwood-city-residents-urge-review-of-flock-safety-
contract/article_90e0686d-4dd9-42f8-b6a6-266c3c70936e.html
FEATURED
Redwood City residents urge review of Flock Safety
contract
By Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff
Jul 29, 2026
 
With privacy and safety concerns over unauthorized access to automated license
plate reader data, Redwood City residents asked the City Council to cancel its
contract with Flock Safety and reevaluate the city’s need for the technology
altogether. 
Çıkış Sinyali Kabul Edildi
Bu web sitesi, temel site işlevlerinin yanı sıra mantıksal analiz, kişiselleştirme ve hedeflenmiş
reklamcılık için çerezler gibi teknolojiler kullanır. Gizlilik Politikası
Kabul et
Gerekli Olmayanları Reddet

--- page 2 ---
Residents showed up to the City Council meeting Monday evening to ask
councilmember to not renew their contract for the automated license plate
readers in September. The concern follows national scrutiny over Flock Safety, a
surveillance technology company, over mass data collection and sharing with law
enforcement beyond city limits, including federal agencies. 
“Automated License Plate Readers have become one of the most pervasive
surveillance tools used by federal agencies to surveil and ultimately detain the
most vulnerable members of our communities,” Diane Savage, an organizer with
Indivisible Mid-Peninsula. 
The Redwood City Council approved its contract with Flock for 25 cameras in
2023, and police said the technology would help them identify vehicles involved
in crimes.
The city also looked to include safeguards to protect resident privacy as much as
possible, Mayor Elmer Martínez Saballos said. 
“I know we’re finding ourselves in a really difficult landscape with these federal
agencies that we’re seeing operate in our communities right now and that’s
driving so much of the concerns from the neighbors I’m hearing from,” Martínez
Saballos said. “I also believe the City Council, when we reviewed this tech, we had
protections and safeguards put into place.”
Whether those guardrails have been effective will be the focus of any future
council decision, he said. 
The city’s policy on the technology states that immigration enforcement, traffic
enforcement, harassment, intimidation and use based on a protected class such
as race, sex and religion are prohibited. It also states that the technology cannot
identify individuals through facial recognition. 
However, outside law enforcement agencies were found to have improperly
accessed data generated by the automated license plate reader system in
numerous cities, without permission from the respective law enforcement
agencies. 
Çıkış Sinyali Kabul Edildi
Bu web sitesi, temel site işlevlerinin yanı sıra mantıksal analiz, kişiselleştirme ve hedeflenmiş
reklamcılık için çerezler gibi teknolojiler kullanır. Gizlilik Politikası

--- page 3 ---
Flock Safety acknowledged the issue in March, stating some California agencies
“had their camera networks inadvertently accessible to out-of-state law
enforcement agencies for a period of time,” according to a company statement.
The company said it was “impossible to determine a specific cause” for the data
breach. 
For the concerned residents, the threat of potential data breaches is reason
enough to cancel the contract. 
“Many of us have been sold the lie that we have to give up some of our privacy in
the name of safety but the choice between privacy and safety is a false choice,”
Emily Morris said during public comment. “The reality is the ALPRs both
compromise our privacy and make us all less safe.”
There has been no evidence of unauthorized access into Redwood City’s
technology data, according to Redwood City police. Still, the department is
reviewing the license plate reader program, and a full update will be presented at
the city’s Police Advisory Committee meeting Aug. 12. 
Following the swarm of public comment at the City Council’s meeting Monday,
Martínez Saballos said he is working with city staff to look into the matter and
will be paying close attention to the PAC’s meeting Aug. 12. 
“If we do see a robust [turnout] of the community at this next PAC meeting, that
would give us even more of a green light to organize a town hall on the subject, to
have a study session on this as a council,” Martínez Saballos said. “If there are
enough questions, that means there’s an appetite in the community to do
education outreach and gather input.” 
The city’s contract with Flock Safety is slated to renew in September, but would
go toward the City Council one way or another for final approval, Martínez
Saballos said. 
Any redirection following the Aug. 12 meeting will need to be made swiftly,
Martínez Saballos said.  
Çıkış Sinyali Kabul Edildi
Bu web sitesi, temel site işlevlerinin yanı sıra mantıksal analiz, kişiselleştirme ve hedeflenmiş
reklamcılık için çerezler gibi teknolojiler kullanır. Gizlilik Politikası

--- page 4 ---
Ana Mata, Daily Journal staff
Daily Journal staff
“It’s a quick timeline but we’re ready to act quickly and receive that input
depending on what we see at the PAC meeting,” Martínez Saballos said.
 
ana@smdailyjournal.com
(65) 344-5200 ext. 106
MORE INFORMATION
California sues, says El Cajon police are illegally sharing license plate info with other agencies
Flock camera data has insufficient systemic oversight in San Mateo County, grand jury finds 
Redwood City to let Flock Safety contract expire over automatic license plate readers concerns
License plate reader helps catch theft suspects in Redwood City
Çıkış Sinyali Kabul Edildi
Bu web sitesi, temel site işlevlerinin yanı sıra mantıksal analiz, kişiselleştirme ve hedeflenmiş
reklamcılık için çerezler gibi teknolojiler kullanır. Gizlilik Politikası

--- page 5 ---
Çıkış Sinyali Kabul Edildi
Bu web sitesi, temel site işlevlerinin yanı sıra mantıksal analiz, kişiselleştirme ve hedeflenmiş
reklamcılık için çerezler gibi teknolojiler kullanır. Gizlilik Politikası