--- page 1 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/flock-camera-data-has-insufficient-systemic-oversight-in-san-
mateo-county-grand-jury-finds/article_53dcc419-8d30-47cf-8b5e-c7821618204b.html
FEATURED
Flock camera data has insufficient systemic oversight in
San Mateo County, grand jury finds 
Grand jury did not find current evidence of ALPR out-of-state data-sharing
By Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff
Aug 6, 2026
 
Сигналът за отказ е уважен
Този уебсайт използва технологии като бисквитки, за да активира основната
функционалност на сайта, както и за анализ, персонализиране и целенасочена
реклама. Политика за поверителност
Приемане
Отказване на несъществено

--- page 2 ---
A civil grand jury report reviewing San Mateo County police agencies’ use of
automated license plate readers didn’t find any illegal, out-of-state data-sharing
as of December 2025, but did see sharing with private universities and noted that
unauthorized data access and insufficient oversight mechanisms for the cameras
remains a concern. 
“Although the materials reviewed did not identify current sharing by SMC
operators with out-of-state entities, most operators did not document criteria,
process, or controls governing in-state sharing in a manner sufficient to
demonstrate compliance with law,” the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury report,
issued Aug. 3, read. 
Nearly all police agencies in the county utilize Flock Safety, a technology that can
be used for authorized law enforcement to respond to emergencies, apprehend
people suspected of crimes and identify stolen vehicles and missing people but
has also generated serious privacy issues. 
Locally, Palo Alto Online reported that the Menlo Park Police Department
previously broke state law by accidentally sharing data collected by their ALPRs
with out-of-state agencies, an issue that has become prevalent across California
and in nearby cities like Mountain View. 
Mountain View announced its decision to turn its ALPRs off after findings that
hundreds of law enforcement agencies, including several federal entities, had
accessed its license plate data without authorization, the Mountain View Voice
reported. 
Residents of other San Mateo County cities, like Redwood City and East Palo Alto,
have also urged their city councils to revisit contracts with Flock following
nationwide scrutiny over the company’s data-sharing practices. 
Despite state ALPR-sharing law allowing only for data dissemination between
public agencies, the grand jury found that law enforcement agencies, including in
Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, Colma, East Palo Alto, Hillsborough,
Menlo Park, Pacifica, Redwood City and San Bruno, had shared data with private
university security. 
Сигналът за отказ е уважен
Този уебсайт използва технологии като бисквитки, за да активира основната
функционалност на сайта, както и за анализ, персонализиране и целенасочена
реклама. Политика за поверителност

--- page 3 ---
The San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office, which provides police services to
unincorporated areas of the county as well as specific cities, had two reported
instances of sharing data with private universities, and Daly City and Foster City
did not report the data. 
While the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury reported that police agencies had
bolstered their protections against out-of-state data sharing, largely because of
systemwide improvements made by Flock, the auditing processes in place remain
insufficient in detailing whether state regulations are actually being followed. 
In particular, the process of “side-sharing,” where ALPR operators make a search
upon request of an outside agency and don’t record the results or reason for the
search in the system, is extremely difficult to detect, the report stated. 
“As a result, compliance with California law in this area depends largely on the
policies, training, and oversight practices of individual agencies,” the report said. 
Officer Andrew Peek, San Mateo Police Department public information officer,
said that the agency was implementing a formal monthly auditing process to
promote transparency of the technology, which has been helpful not only in
solving crimes but also missing persons cases and mental health situations. The
department does not engage in side-sharing and requires all agencies requesting
its data to adhere to its policies, he said.
“The big thing moving forward, these audits provide great documented oversight,
reinforcing accountability,” Peek said. 
The Sheriff’s Office is also committed to ensuring ALPR technology is being used
for “its intended purpose,” Communications Director Gretchen Spiker said in a
statement. 
“The ALPR system is configured by the Sheriff’s Office with safeguards that
prevent access by out-of-state and federal agencies. Compliance is verified
through periodic audits conducted by Sheriff’s Office personnel,” Spiker’s
statement read. 
Сигналът за отказ е уважен
Този уебсайт използва технологии като бисквитки, за да активира основната
функционалност на сайта, както и за анализ, персонализиране и целенасочена
реклама. Политика за поверителност

--- page 4 ---
Other police agencies whose cities were denoted as having weak audit systems or
simply not reporting audit data at all, like Burlingame, Menlo Park and
Hillsborough, did not respond to request for comment. 
Whether agencies share data within the entire state or only within the county is
also up to those individual jurisdictions, according to the grand jury. San Bruno,
for example, shares data with 335 other agencies, whereas Woodside shares with
only three. 
The possibility of data being shared incorrectly corresponds to how many other
agencies have access to it, according to the report. 
“As the size of a network increases and more law enforcement agencies are
granted access, the risk of misuse correspondingly increases,” the report said.
 
holly@smdailyjournal.com
(650) 344-5200 ext. 105
MORE INFORMATION
Сигналът за отказ е уважен
Този уебсайт използва технологии като бисквитки, за да активира основната
функционалност на сайта, както и за анализ, персонализиране и целенасочена
реклама. Политика за поверителност

--- page 5 ---
Holly Rusch, Daily Journal staff
Daily Journal staff
East Palo Alto City Council upholds Flock Safety camera contract
Burlingame council supports exploring citywide surveillance technology policy
Redwood City to let Flock Safety contract expire over automatic license plate readers concerns
Redwood City residents urge review of Flock Safety contract
Сигналът за отказ е уважен
Този уебсайт използва технологии като бисквитки, за да активира основната
функционалност на сайта, както и за анализ, персонализиране и целенасочена
реклама. Политика за поверителност