--- page 1 ---
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/san-mateo-police-receives-drone-funding/article_40e8009e-
cac4-11ed-a99d-2f7e1c8053cb.html
San Mateo police receives drone funding
Mar 25, 2023
 
The San Mateo Police Department
has received funding to add three
new drones for use in the field after
City Council approval on March 20.
The council approved a purchase
agreement with Axon Enterprise, a
drone program for law enforcement.
It calls for Axon to provide a
consolidated drone program for the
department’s existing program and add three new drone devices. The department
currently has four drones after the department started using the technology in
2020. Axon will also provide licenses, systems, maintenance and training for the
program. The contract is for five years at the cost of around $110,000. The
contract amendment will cost $48,000 in the current fiscal year and about
$15,000 each year after. The department has already contracted with Axon for
body cameras, Tasers and a virtual-reality training simulation system.
A drone is an unmanned aerial device controlled remotely from the ground. The
police would use the drones for scene documentation, area searches for people
and evidence, disaster response, tactical operations and critical incident
management, a city staff report said. The drones are not equipped with weapons
and there are strict regulations on when, where, how and why police can use a
drone, the staff report said. Flights must be approved by the drone unit
commander and the pilot and must comply with police policy and Federal
Aviation Administration flight restrictions.
Tento web využívá technologie, jako jsou soubory cookie, aby umožnily základní funkce webu,
a také pro analýza, personalizace a cílená reklama. Zásady ochrany osobních údajů
Přijmout
Odmítnout nepodstatné

--- page 2 ---
The remote pilot will also focus on needed areas and not collect data on
uninvolved people or places, according to the staff report. The council
unanimously approved the agenda item on its consent calendar Monday.
 
Tento web využívá technologie, jako jsou soubory cookie, aby umožnily základní funkce webu,
a také pro analýza, personalizace a cílená reklama. Zásady ochrany osobních údajů