Update: Man arrested in hit-and-run that killed woman – Palo Alto Daily Post MENU About Awards Opinion Letters Spotlight Obituaries Jobs Newsracks Contact Archives About Awards Opinion Letters Spotlight Obituaries Jobs Newsracks Contact Archives Home Redwood City Update: Man arrested in hit-and-run that killed woman Update: Man arrested in hit-and-run that killed woman May 29, 2026 2:36 pm UPDATE, MAY 29 — Redwood City police have arrested a man suspected in a hit-and-run that killed a 72-year-old woman. Police used the city’s license plate camera system to find a match for the white Toyota Tundra pickup truck that is believed to have stuck Maria Perez on Sunday night, police said. On Monday, police found such a truck parked at the home of Francisco Gallardo Alvarez, 52, of Redwood City, and towed it. Police arrested Gallardo Alvarez on Thursday (May 28) on suspicion of vehicular manslaughter and hit-and-run and booked him into jail. He remains in jail in lieu of $50,000. ORIGINAL STORY, MAY 27 — Redwood City police are searching for a driver who caused a fatal hit-and-run of a pedestrian at Middlefield Road and Beech Street, police said. The hit-and-run happened around 9:45 p.m. on Sunday (May 24), according to Redwood City Lt. Jeff Clements. Maria Perez, 72, was crossing the street when she was hit by a white Toyota Tundra pickup truck, according to a fundraiser on GoFundMe. Police found Perez near the intersection and she was taken to the hospital, where she was pronounced dead, Clements said. “Maria was a loving auntie, family member and friend who touched the lives of so many peo-ple. Her passing has left our family devastated emotionally, mentally, and financially during this difficult time,” her niece, Cindy Perez, said in the fundraiser. “Losing her so suddenly has left a pain that words can’t explain.” The driver of the pickup truck involved fled the scene, and police are trying to find the driver, Clements said. Previous June primary voter guide Next Appeals court hands city a win in dispute over Black Lives Matter mural Be the first to comment Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Comment Name Email Website We Publish Legals The Daily Post has been adjudicated by the Superior Court of Santa Clara County as a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Palo Alto and County of Santa Clara, and is qualified to publish legal notices, including: • Fictitious Business Name Statements (FBNs) • Legal name changes • Petitions to Administer Estate (Probate) • Notices of Public Sale • Alcohol Beverage Licenses • Service by Publication • Notices of Trustee’s Sale • Family Law Summonses Just email or call (650) 328-7700 to place your legal advertisement. Read the print edition Only a fraction of the local news stories covered by the Daily Post appear on this website. To get all the local news, including many stories you can’t find online, pick up the Post every morning at 1,000 Mid-Peninsula locations. Recent Comments Sunny on District settles antisemitism lawsuit Dan Molieri on District settles antisemitism lawsuit Mark Allendorf on District settles antisemitism lawsuit Len on Assembly passes bill critics call the ‘Stop Nick Shirley Act’ — shielding employees of some nonprofits from news cameras on District settles antisemitism lawsuit Nathaniel Martinez on Assembly passes bill critics call the ‘Stop Nick Shirley Act’ — shielding employees of some nonprofits from news cameras Anonymous on District settles antisemitism lawsuit Categories Amazon Apple Atherton Belmont Burlingame Caltrain East Palo Alto Facebook Google Hillsborough In the news Los Altos Los Altos Hills Menlo Park Mountain View North Fair Oaks Obituaries Opinion Palo Alto Portola Valley Redwood City San Carlos San Mateo San Mateo County Santa Clara County schools Spotlight Stanford Sunnyvale Sunset Towers Woodside © Copyright 2008-26, The Daily Post. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Terms of Use. ::after