Officer fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera to track down relative – Palo Alto Daily Post MENU About Awards Opinion Letters Spotlight Obituaries Jobs Newsracks Contact Archives About Awards Opinion Letters Spotlight Obituaries Jobs Newsracks Contact Archives Home In the news Officer fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera to track down relative Officer fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera to track down relative September 14, 2026 7:34 pm This Flock camera can photograph hundreds of license plates per minute. When the location and time of those photographs are put in a database, along with data from other Flock cameras, the travels of an ordinary citizen can be documented in police computers. Photo from Flock Safety. A San Jose police officer has been fired for allegedly using Flock camera data to help a relative track down the location of a domestic violence victim, police officials said. The officer, while off duty, used a personal device to perform the unauthorized automatic license plate reader search, related to a domestic violence matter involving family members, San Jose police said. After finding the victim’s vehicle, the officer shared the location with the suspect, who is a relative of the officer, according to police. “The officer was immediately placed on leave and later terminated following a criminal investigation,” San Jose police said in a statement. The case has been submitted to the State of California Peace Officer Standards and Training for decertification investigation. The case has prompted the department to put policies in place regarding Flock data, police said. The department has now restricted automatic license plate reader and other sensitive law enforcement systems from being accessed on personal devices. All officers were admonished that improper access of ALPR and other law enforcement systems is grounds for termination. In addition to current monthly ALPR audits, the department is testing new smart auditing tools that go even further to flag possible access without a lawful purpose. “When an officer violates the public’s trust this severely, my responsibility is clear: that person cannot remain in a position of police authority, and they cannot wear the San Jose badge, said Police Chief Paul Joseph. “This technology is new; the standard is not.” Previous Deputy arrested for kiddie porn Next San Mateo County Democrats announce endorsements, say they’re neutral on RWC rent control Be the first to comment Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Comment Name Email Website We Publish Legals The Daily Post has been adjudicated by the Superior Court of Santa Clara County as a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Palo Alto and County of Santa Clara, and is qualified to publish legal notices, including: • Fictitious Business Name Statements (FBNs) • Legal name changes • Petitions to Administer Estate (Probate) • Notices of Public Sale • Alcohol Beverage Licenses • Service by Publication • Notices of Trustee’s Sale • Family Law Summonses Just email or call (650) 328-7700 to place your legal advertisement. Read the print edition Only a fraction of the local news stories covered by the Daily Post appear on this website. To get all the local news, including many stories you can’t find online, pick up the Post every morning at 1,000 Mid-Peninsula locations. Recent Comments Gene on Parents sue PAUSD over process used to hire new superintendent Kari on City, schools are negotiating Cubberley sale even though tax is on the ballot details on Opinion: Mueller eyes DA job; City criticized for new signs to parks; Sequoia district tries to muzzle critics Paul D on Opinion: Mueller eyes DA job; City criticized for new signs to parks; Sequoia district tries to muzzle critics Ginnie Noh on City, schools are negotiating Cubberley sale even though tax is on the ballot rpar762 on School gave 5th graders laptops with no parental controls — what could go wrong? rpar762 on School gave 5th graders laptops with no parental controls — what could go wrong? Categories Amazon Apple Atherton Belmont Burlingame Caltrain East Palo Alto Facebook Google Hillsborough In the news Los Altos Los Altos Hills Menlo Park Mountain View North Fair Oaks Obituaries Opinion Palo Alto Portola Valley Redwood City San Carlos San Mateo San Mateo County Santa Clara County schools Spotlight Stanford Sunnyvale Sunset Towers Woodside © Copyright 2008-26, The Daily Post. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Terms of Use. ::after