--- page 1 ---
HOME

SAN MATEO COUNTY

Woodside wants to know
about federal agencies tapping into its surveillance cameras
Woodside wants to know
about federal agencies
tapping into its
surveillance cameras
February 19, 2026 11:14 am
ABOUT
AWARDS
OPINION
LETTERS
SPOTLIGHT
OBITUARIES
JOBS
NEWSRACKS
CONTACT
ARCHIVES

--- page 2 ---
A flock camera. Flock Safety photo.
BY ADRIANA HERNANDEZ
Daily Post Staff Writer
Are federal law enforcement agencies such as ICE
downloading data collected by license-plate reading
cameras set up by local governments?
That’s the question Woodside City Council wants to
answer about its cameras.
Council voted 4-1 on Feb. 10 to look for an auditor
to review requests that the San Mateo County
Sheriff’s Office received from federal agencies for
data collected by the cameras operated by a
company known as Flock Safety.
Councilman Dick Brown voted no.
Flock cameras take hundreds of pictures a second of
license plates. When a computer stitches the
pictures together, it is able to provide information






--- page 3 ---
on the daily travels of average citizens, including
those not suspected of any crime.
Councilwoman Jenn Wall said it was hard to feel
confident that Woodside’s images are not being
accessed by federal agencies when only a small
percentage of requests are being checked. Council
was told that the sheriff’s office only checked 10 of
the 117,723 requests it got for Flock data.
The issue hit the front burner in late January when
Mountain View Police admitted federal agencies
had been downloading license-plate information
from its Flock cameras without their permission. A
few days after the story hit the news, Mountain View
Police Chief Mike Canfield turned off the city’s Flock
cameras.
“While the Flock Safety pilot program demonstrated
clear value in enhancing our ability to protect our
community and help us solve crimes, I personally no
longer have confidence in this particular vendor.
Like many of you, I was deeply disappointed to learn
that Flock Safety did not meet the City’s
requirements regarding our data access control and
transparency,” Canfield said in a statement Feb. 2.
Federal agencies that tapped into Mountain View’s
data included the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives, the inspector general’s
office of the U.S.. General Services Administration
and Air Force bases in Langley, Va., and in Ohio.
However, ICE did not attempt to access Mountain
View’s data.

--- page 4 ---
Flock representative Lily Ho told the Woodside
council that federal agencies accessed Mountain
View’s data during a trial period for the cameras
from August to November 2024, apparently before
the city set policies as to what agencies could access
its data. After Mountain View became a customer,
policies were put in place so it didn’t happen again,
Ho said.
Town Manager Jason Ledbetter said Woodside has a
robust policy and allows only the San Mateo County
Sheriff’s Office, Redwood City Police and San Mateo
Police to access its data. Council also has quarterly
meetings to review how the cameras are being used
in the community, Ledbetter said.
The town has to trust that others in law
enforcement are truthful when they request data,
but if they weren’t, it would open an internal
investigation, Assistant Sheriff Mark Myers said.
“It can’t just be a matter of faith if it involves my
personal privacy,” Nancy Goodban of the police
watchdog group Fixin’ SMC said Tuesday.
Residents said their concerns about the danger
Flock could pose to the community outweigh the
benefits of the cameras, and they demanded that
council turn off its 26 cameras. The purpose of the
cameras is to help law enforcement solve crimes,
such as tracking down home burglars.
In 2025, Woodside’s cameras scanned over 3.1
million license plates; however, it only helped

--- page 5 ---
PREVIOUS
Bus-only lanes
likely won’t work on
El Camino,
councilman says
NEXT 
Los Altos’
Councilman to
challenge
Eisenberg for water
board seat
recover two stolen cars, and four arrests were
made, according to Ledbetter.
“Standing by our values means choosing community
trust, privacy and immigrant safety over
unconstitutional hyper-surveillance,” Kimberly Woo
said.
In related news, Redwood City officials said in a
statement Feb. 12 that its contract with Flock ends
in September and is encouraging residents to give
the Police Advisory Committee feedback on whether
to pursue contracts with other vendors or if the city
should try other technology options.
Reason For These Cameras - Big Picture says:
FEBRUARY 19, 2026 4:24 PM AT 4:24 PM
This is the reason you keep these cameras – I bet
that Pima County Arizona had these for the Guthrie
investigation.
From Sunnyvale DPS: Shooting / Attempted
Homicide:
“Multi-Agency Effort Leads to Arrest of Armed Felony
Assault Suspect Using FLOCK Camera Alert”
6 COMMENTS

--- page 6 ---
On 2/16/26, patrol officers responded to a felony
assault in the 100 block of South Bernardo Avenue.
The suspect fled prior to officers’ arrival after
assaulting one victim and pointing a firearm at a
second individual.
On 2/17/26, officers received an alert from the
FLOCK Safety Camera System indicating the suspect
vehicle was detected in downtown Los Gatos. With
the assistance of the Los Gatos Police Department
and the Santa Clara County Special Enforcement
Team, officers located and safely arrested the
violent suspect nearby. Sunnyvale officers
subsequently served a search warrant and
recovered a loaded firearm equipped with an
extended magazine, along with additional loaded
magazines. The suspect was booked on multiple
felony charges.
This case underscores the importance of inter-
agency collaboration and demonstrates the
effectiveness of the FLOCK safety camera system,
which officers rely on daily to locate and apprehend
violent offenders in the ongoing effort to keep
Sunnyvale safe for the community.
Observer says:
FEBRUARY 19, 2026 5:56 PM AT 5:56 PM
Flock cameras aren’t useful when it comes to
catching the bad guys because the bad guys drive
cars with paper plates. Flock cameras are good at
The Daily Post has been
adjudicated by the Superior
Court of Santa Clara County as a
newspaper of general
circulation in the City of Palo
Alto and County of Santa Clara,
and is qualified to publish legal
notices, including:
• Fictitious Business Name
Statements (FBNs)
• Legal name changes
• Petitions to Administer Estate
(Probate)
• Notices of Public Sale
• Alcohol Beverage Licenses
• Service by Publication
• Notices of Trustee’s Sale
• Family Law Summonses
Just email or call (650) 328-7700
to place your legal
advertisement.
WE PUBLISH LEGALS
READ THE PRINT EDITION

--- page 7 ---
tracking the movements of law-abiding citizens,
though.
However, I think “One Reason …” has a great sense
of humor. Pima County, even with Flock cameras,
hasn’t had any success in finding Guthrie or her
abductors. Not a good example.
Stew says:
FEBRUARY 20, 2026 6:23 PM AT 6:23 PM
Interesting how these local councils were perfectly
happy to have this Orwellian surveillance system
tracking law abiding citizens 24/7, and only became
outraged about constitutional privacy rights being
trampled when they found out ICE might be using
the data to track immigrants.
jam says:
FEBRUARY 20, 2026 7:11 PM AT 7:11 PM
Interesting. Even Amazon ended its deal with Flock.
My question is what’s Palo Alto doing about Flock?
Anything?
Google for Vehicles says:
FEBRUARY 21, 2026 10:42 AM AT 10:42 AM
The conversation around Flock Safety cameras often
misses the forest for the trees. To understand this
tool, we must look at the “big picture.”
Only a fraction of the local news
stories covered by the Daily Post
appear on this website. To get
all the local news, including
many stories you can’t find
online, pick up the Post every
morning at 1,000 Mid-Peninsula
locations.
LET A JUDGE DECIDE ON Bonini
overcomes qualifications
concern and leads race for
county superintendent
SQUIDSIE ON Confusion
blamed for defeat of parcel tax
AJ SIMON ON Confusion
blamed for defeat of parcel tax
LARRY ON School supporters
handed some lessons from
defeat of parcel tax
MARK ALLENDORF ON School
supporters handed some
lessons from defeat of parcel
tax
HAL ROACH ON School
supporters handed some
lessons from defeat of parcel
tax
RECENT COMMENTS

--- page 8 ---
When law enforcement uses Flock, they aren’t
“watching” a street corner to monitor residents; they
are querying a digital history book. It is less like a
CCTV monitor and more like a Google search for a
criminal’s vehicle. The keyword is criminal. Unless
you are associated with a crime, you aren’t being
tracked.
Crime doesn’t respect city boundaries, and neither
should police work. We saw this in Sunnyvale just
this week. On February 16, a suspect committed a
felony assault with a firearm and fled. The very next
day, a Flock alert detected the vehicle in Los Gatos.
Through a multi-agency effort involving Sunnyvale,
Los Gatos, and Santa Clara County, the violent
offender was safely arrested, and a loaded firearm
with an extended magazine was taken off the
streets.
This mirrors a recent San Jose case where a double-
homicide suspect from Pleasanton was captured
thirty miles away thanks to real-time data sharing.
It is a mistake to abandon such an effective tool just
because some city staff lack the technical
competence to conduct proper audits. Looking at
the situation in Mountain View, it appears staff
made significant assumptions and are now “saving
face” by blaming the vendor.
Instead of punishing public safety for bureaucratic
oversight, we should ensure the people managing
this technology are competent. We shouldn’t trade
community safety for administrative errors—not
DETAILS ON Bonini overcomes
qualifications concern and leads
race for county superintendent
Amazon
Apple
Atherton
Belmont
Burlingame
Caltrain
East Palo Alto
Facebook
Google
Hillsborough
In the news
Los Altos
Los Altos Hills
Menlo Park
Mountain View
North Fair Oaks
Obituaries
Opinion
Palo Alto
Portola Valley
Redwood City
San Carlos
San Mateo
CATEGORIES

--- page 9 ---
when these tools are the difference between a
violent suspect on the run and a suspect behind
bars. Think of how much more information would
have been available for the Nancy Guthrie case.
A comment to Observer: There are zero Flock
cameras in the Catalina Foothills near the crime
scene; hence, investigators have to go find residents
with Ring cameras to even get a baseline of what
vehicle to look for.
If it can happen there, it can happen in Palo Alto,
Menlo Park, Woodside, Atherton and the list goes
on. Bottomline: If the federal government is
searching for a specific target with a specific vehicle
and if so it is serious. They are not looking for
random immigrants and common sense should
prevail that this would be a huge waste of time.
Observer says:
FEBRUARY 21, 2026 3:22 PM AT 3:22 PM
Your comments about the Guthrie case are
incorrect.
1. The Pima County Sheriff’s Department has five
Flock ALPR units. It wanted more, but its grant
application was rejected by the Pima County Board
of Supervisors in 2019 (See TucsonSentinel.com,
May 7, 2019).
2. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration also
has Flock cameras along Interstate 19 and Arizona
San Mateo County
Santa Clara County
schools
Spotlight
Stanford
Sunnyvale
Sunset Towers
Woodside

--- page 10 ---
State Route 86, according to the Arizona Daily Star
(August 5, 2012, updated July 8, 2014).
3. U.S. Customs and Border Protection affixes Flock
ALPR cameras to its vehicles and installs concealed
cameras for limited periods during investigations
and along “smuggling routes.” (Google CBP Privacy
Impact Report for License Plate Reader Technology,
December 11, 2017).
All of which strengthens my argument that despite
these Flock cameras, Pima County hasn’t had any
success in finding Guthrie or her abductors.
Comments are closed.
© Copyright 2008-26, The Daily Post. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Terms of Use.
::after