--- page 1 ---
Policy
463
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
463.1   PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for the capture, storage and use of digital data 
obtained through the use of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology.
463.2   ADMINISTRATION
The ALPR technology, also known as License Plate Recognition (LPR), allows for the automated 
detection of license plates. It is used by the San Mateo Police Department to convert data 
associated with vehicle license plates for official law enforcement purposes, including identifying 
stolen or wanted vehicles, stolen license plates and missing persons. It may also be used to 
gather information related to active warrants, homeland security, electronic surveillance, suspect 
interdiction and stolen property recovery.
All installation and maintenance of ALPR equipment, as well as ALPR data retention and access, 
shall be managed by the FIeld Operations Captain or their designee. The Field Operations Captain 
or their designee will assign members under his/her command to administer the day-to-day 
operation of the ALPR equipment and data.
463.2.1   ALPR ADMINISTRATOR
The Field Operations Captain, as the ALPR Administrator, or their designee, shall be responsible 
for developing guidelines and procedures to comply with the requirements of Civil Code § 
1798.90.5 et seq. These guidelines and procedures are delineated in this policy and/or in our 
Department's Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) 205, "Automated License Plate Readers 
Operating Procedure."
463.3   DEFINITIONS
“Automated license plate recognition operator” or “ALPR operator,” means a person that 
operates an ALPR system. For our Department purposes, this will usually refer to our personnel or 
authorized designee operating a vehicle or other item of equipment with ALPR cameras collecting 
license plate data.
“Automated license plate recognition end-user” or “ALPR end-user” means a person that 
accesses or uses an ALPR system. For our Department purposes, this will usually refer to our 
personnel or authorized designee accessing data on a retroactive basis that is collected and stored 
in a centralized database(s).
463.4   OPERATIONS
Use of an ALPR is restricted to the purposes outlined below. Department members shall not use, 
or allow others to use the equipment or database records for any unauthorized purpose (Civil 
Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53).
(a)
An ALPR shall only be used for official law enforcement business by any Department 
member(s) or authorized designee whose job duties necessitate the use of ALPR and 
that have completed Department approved training.
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2025/12/12, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) -
471


--- page 2 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
(b)
An ALPR may be used in conjunction with any routine patrol operation or criminal 
investigation. Reasonable suspicion or probable cause is not required before using 
an ALPR.
(c)
While an ALPR may be used to canvass license plates around any crime scene, 
particular consideration should be given to using ALPR-equipped cars to canvass 
areas around homicides, shootings and other major incidents. Partial license plates 
reported during major crimes should be entered into the ALPR system in an attempt 
to identify suspect vehicles.
(d)
No member of this department or authorized designee shall operate ALPR equipment 
or access ALPR data without first completing department-approved training. This 
training is further described in SOP 205.
(e)
No ALPR operator may access department, state or federal data unless otherwise 
authorized to do so.
(f)
The employee or authorized designee using our ALPR system must recognize that 
the data collected from the ALPR device, and the content of referenced hotlists, 
consists of data that may or may not be accurate, despite ongoing efforts to maximize 
the currency and accuracy of such data.To the greatest extent possible, vehicle 
and subject information will be verified using separate law enforcement information 
sources to confirm the vehicle or subject's identity and justification for contact.Users 
of ALPR data must to the fullest extent possible visually confirm the actual plate 
characters generated by the ALPR readers correspond with the digital image of the 
license plate in question.
463.5   DATA COLLECTION AND RETENTION
The Field Operations Captain or their designee is responsible for ensuring systems and processes 
are in place for the proper collection and retention of ALPR data. Data will be transferred from 
vehicles to the designated storage in accordance with department procedures, as described in 
SOP 205.
All ALPR data downloaded to the server should be stored for a minimum of 30 days from the 
collection date. ALPR information being used as criminal evidence will be retained until the criminal 
matter is resolved and/or in accordance with other criminal evidentiary retention schedules. All 
data and images gathered by ALPR are for the official use of the San Mateo Police Department 
and because such data may contain confidential CLETS information, it is not open to public 
review. ALPR information gathered and retained by this Department may be used and shared with 
prosecutors or others only as law permits.
463.6   ACCOUNTABILITY
All data will be closely safeguarded and protected by both procedural and technological means. 
The San Mateo Police Department will observe the following safeguards regarding access to and 
use of stored data (Civil Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53):
(a)
All ALPR data downloaded to the mobile workstation and in storage shall be accessible 
only through a login/password-protected system capable of documenting all access 
of information by name, date and time (Civil Code § 1798.90.52).
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2025/12/12, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) -
472


--- page 3 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
(b)
Members approved to access ALPR data under these guidelines are permitted to 
access the data for legitimate law enforcement purposes only, such as when the data 
relates to a specific criminal investigation or department-related civil or administrative 
action.
(c)
ALPR system audits should be conducted on a regular basis, as described in SOP 
205.
For security or data breaches, see the Records Release and Maintenance Policy.
463.7   POLICY
The policy of the San Mateo Police Department is to utilize ALPR technology to capture and store 
digital license plate data and images while recognizing the established privacy rights of the public.
All data and images gathered by the ALPR are for the official use of this department. Because 
such data may contain confidential information, it is not open to public review.
463.8   RELEASING ALPR DATA
The ALPR data may be shared only with other law enforcement or prosecutorial agencies 
for official law enforcement purposes or as otherwise permitted by law, using the following 
procedures:
(a)
Agency members accessing ALPR data are subject to a pre-approval process by the 
database management administrator, confirming their authority to access the system 
for official law enforcement purposes
(b)
The agency makes a request for the ALPR data that includes:
(a)
The name of the agency.
(b)
The intended purpose of obtaining the information.
(c)
The approved request is retained on file.
Requests for ALPR data by non-law enforcement or non-prosecutorial agencies will be processed 
as provided in the Records Maintenance and Release Policy (Civil Code § 1798.90.55).
463.9   TRAINING
The ALPR Administrator shall ensure that members receive department-approved training to 
operate or access the ALPR system (Civil Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53). This 
training is further described in SOP 205. The department POST Coordinator will maintain all 
training records in METR.
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2025/12/12, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) -
473
