--- page 1 ---
OSHKOSH
Oshkosh looks beyond Flock for license
plate reader cameras
After ending its Flock Safety contract, Oshkosh plans to use a cybersecurity-led
committee to vet its next license plate reader vendor.
June 17, 2026
Updated June 18, 2026, 8:48 a.m. CT
OSHKOSH – The city isn’t taking any chances with its next tech dealer.
Oshkosh Police Department hasn’t begun looking for a successor to Flock Safety
yet, saying it intends to set up an advisory committee to identify a future
automated license plate reader vendor.
Life TV ending: Oshkosh could pull the plug on Life TV in August
Police Chief Dean Smith gave the update at the June 17 Common Council meeting
almost two months after the city revoked its contract with Flock Safety over
integrity and trust concerns.
Justin Marville
Oshkosh Northwestern
Key Points
An advisory committee will be formed to recommend a new vendor and establish best security and operational
practices.
The committee will include a cybersecurity company, city IT, police and community members both for and
against the technology.
Concerns from the public regarding Flock cameras included privacy erosion, security vulnerabilities and
potential law enforcement misuse.

--- page 2 ---
Who will make up the advisory committee?
According to Smith, OPD is looking for an independent cyber security company
to chair a committee that hopes to include representation from the city’s
information technology department, OPD and community members who support
and oppose ALPR technology.
The plan is for the committee to make recommendations for an alternative ALPR
vendor as well as identifying “best security and operational practices.”
Air quality program: Winnebago County launches new air quality tracking
“I’m not going to pigeonhole them on specifics [because] I want to hear from
them,” said Smith of the board’s function.
“The challenge is that this is new ground and finding the resources available is a
challenge, but it’s not a challenge we can’t overcome.”
Why is Oshkosh looking for a new ALPR vendor?
Common Council unanimously voted not to renew its contract for the contentious
cameras in April less than 24 hours after approving an amended one-year
agreement with Flock.
At a special April 22 meeting, Smith said he was immediately advised by officers
that Flock cameras create a “heat map,” directly refuting claims to the contrary
from Flock Chief Information Security Officer Chris Castaldo.
Castaldo told council member Brad Spanbauer the images captured by Flock
cameras do not create a pattern of movement for vehicles while also claiming
federal agencies couldn’t access Oshkosh’s data without OPD’s knowledge.
Assistant Chief of Police Brian Schuldes advised the Northwestern that OPD
powered off each of Oshkosh's 26 Flock cameras and covered the license plate
readers with a bag to ensure they cannot collect data.

--- page 3 ---
Oshkosh’s move to drop Flock Safety followed similar decisions by Verona,
Sturgeon Bay and Dane County before Appleton and Grand Chute followed suit.
Grand Chute is switching to ALPR provider Axon, but during public comment at
the June 17 Oshkosh Common Council meeting, software engineer Tanner Mann
urged the council not to use the tech company because of similar security
concerns.
What are Flock cameras and what are they used for?
Solar-powered cameras, Flock Safety readers are tools mounted on poles used to
capture the rear of vehicles and analyze license plates to provide other vehicle
data in a system.
The company’s client base was previously composed of more than 5,000 law
enforcement agencies, who can search the system for plate numbers, vehicle
color, vehicle type or a distinguishable feature to receive real-time alerts tracking
stolen automobiles or vehicles associated with warrants or a crime.
Why did community members oppose Flock cameras?
The public has pointed to concerns about possible infringement of Fourth
Amendment rights, privacy erosion, security vulnerabilities, the company’s data
sharing and law enforcement misuse.
In February, Mountain View City Council in California terminated its contract
with Flock after an investigation revealed more than 250 unapproved agencies
conducted around 600,000 searches of the city’s records over the span of a year.
Both Milwaukee and Menasha have also seen police officers charged after using
the Flock system to personally track vehicles belonging to women.
Contact Justin Marville at jmarville@usatodayco.com and follow him on X
(formerly Twitter) at @justinmarville.

--- page 4 ---
