Denver extends contract with Flock for license-plate readers Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 53°F Saturday, May 9th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Home Page News Latest Headlines Colorado News Politics Crime and Public Safety Courts National News World News Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Photos Video Your Hub Weather Sports Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Denver Summit FC College Sports Preps NEW Betting Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio Sports Podcasts Business Business Real Estate Airlines Economy Energy Retail Technology Best Reviews The Know The Know Food and Drink Art Culture Movies TV & Streaming Music Theater Travel Family Friendly Bars Beer Outdoors Outdoors Hiking Fall Colors Cycling Fitness Running Camping Fishing Hunting Water Sports Skiing Snowboarding Winter Sports Opinion Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Things To Do Things To Do Event Calendar Television Listings Comics Games Horoscopes Advice Home & Garden Free and Cheap Cannabis Recipes Denver Post Store Classifieds Classifieds Automotive Homes Jobs Branded Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log in Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Politics | Mayor extends Denver’s contract with Flock… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 53°F Saturday, May 9th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Politics Latest Headlines Colorado Politics Crime Nation World Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Trending: Free summer concert guide 🎸 Avalanche vs. Wild schedule 🏒 Colorado cop fired for dishonesty keeps his badge Breaking News Frontier Airlines flight bound for Los Angeles hits, kills person on runway at Denver International Airport News Politics News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Mayor extends Denver’s contract with Flock license-plate readers without council approval The City Council unanimously opposed a new contract with the company earlier this year Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Denver Mayor Mike Johnston speaks during the State of the City address in the Seawell Ballroom at the Denver Center for the Performing Arts on Monday, July 21, 2025. (Photo by AAron Ontiveroz/The Denver Post) By Elliott Wenzler | ewenzler@denverpost.com | The Denver Post PUBLISHED: October 22, 2025 at 10:11 AM MDT | UPDATED: October 22, 2025 at 5:04 PM MDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Mayor Mike Johnston’s office is extending Denver’s contract with Flock — a company that operates AI-powered license-plate readers throughout the city — for five months without any additional cost, circumventing the need for a vote by the City Council. In May, the council unanimously voted against a contract to extend the camera system over concerns that the technology is creating a surveillance network ripe for abuse. But Johnston’s office opted not to take the cameras down, then extended the contract through October without council approval. Now, another contract extension with added requirements intended to reduce the risk of data misuse will run through at least March, which is when Johnston’s team will present a new contract to the City Council, according to an announcement Wednesday by the mayor’s office. “In Denver, we believe you can be a city that is just as tough on fighting crime as it is protecting someone’s civil liberties,” Johnston said in the news release. “I’ve made clear to Flock’s leadership that I expect total transparency and that anything less will result in an end to our relationship.” Some councilmembers reacted to the extension with exasperation Wednesday. “I’m tired of seeing major public safety decisions made behind council’s back,” said Councilwoman Flor Alvidrez. “Extending Flock again without a vote undermines democratic oversight and public trust.” Johnston’s office says Flock’s technology has been a “game changer” for combating crime. Information gathered by Flock cameras across Denver has led to 352 arrests and 250 recovered stolen vehicles, according to the city. The company agreed to add new protections to its services to ensure Denver’s data isn’t shared with the federal government, according to a news release. One of the biggest concerns that opponents of the system have is that the data could be used by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for deportation efforts. It’s illegal for local law enforcement agencies in Colorado to cooperate with ICE. Denver’s new contract will include a requirement that Flock must pay $100,000 for any instance that data collected in the city is shared with federal agencies, according to the news release. Flock will also only allow law enforcement users to look up vehicles with certain search terms for a “select number of crimes,” which excludes anything related to immigration or reproductive health care, like abortions. Any law enforcement agencies that want access to Denver’s Flock data will also have to agree, under the new deal, not to share any information with the federal government regarding immigration enforcement or face possible prosecution from the Colorado Attorney General’s Office. A spokesman for Flock said the company plans to continue working with Denver to prevent and solve crimes while protecting residents’ privacy. “We fully support Mayor Johnston’s commitment to transparency and accountability and will continue partnering with the city to ensure that Denver’s program reflects its values and priorities,” Paris Lewbel said in a statement. The 111 Flock cameras operating in Denver were installed at 70 intersections in 2024 as part of an eight-month pilot program. Johnston’s office proposed a two-year extension to that program earlier this year, but ultimately asked the council to vote it down after intense backlash from residents and concerns from council members. After the council rejected the proposal , Johnston’s office approved a new contract with Flock over the summer for just under $500,000, which is the threshold required for council approval. That extension ends this month. The new extension will have no cost. Councilwoman Sarah Parady, one of the council’s most vocal opponents of Flock, said Wednesday she was “stunned” to learn of the latest contract extension. “This company is dishonest, motivated primarily by the profit potential that comes with aggregation of data and has no place in our city,” she said. “Flock’s mass surveillance system remains incredibly dangerous for Denver regardless of this belated step.” Alvidrez and Councilwoman Jamie Torres said the new requirements don’t assuage their concerns about the company. Torres said she finds the move to avoid a council vote “pretty reprehensible” and that the decision will further erode Johnston’s tense relationship with the council. “I don’t think it bodes well for when we actually have to consider voting on it again in the new year,” she said. But not everyone on the council disagreed with the decision. Councilman Kevin Flynn was quoted in the mayor’s announcement, saying he was satisfied with the guardrails added. “The system has already proved its worth in solving crimes around the city. We can boost safety while ensuring the data is restricted,” he said, according to the news release. The news outlet 404 Media earlier this year reported that ICE has used Flock data for its deportation efforts. The mayor’s office said there have been no examples of that happening with information captured by Denver cameras. Related Articles There are 111 cameras snapping photos of license plates in Denver. City Council is deciding whether to keep them. Increasing police use of license-plate scanner technology raises privacy concerns Denver won’t extend contract for license-plate readers. But cameras at 70 intersections aren’t coming down soon. This summer, law enforcement records released in Illinois revealed that Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agents had used their access to the Loveland Police Department’s Flock data for an immigration investigation. Following that revelation, Johnston’s office told 9News that the Denver Police Department had revoked Loveland police’s access to tracking data from Denver’s Flock cameras. The cameras operate by snapping photos of every car that passes through the intersections where they are based. The system then cross-references the license plate with national and local law enforcement databases. If a plate matches one listed in the system as stolen or involved with a crime, the Denver Police Department is notified — with a pinpoint of where the photo was taken — within about 15 seconds. The photos are stored for 30 days unless they are flagged as part of an investigation. Stay up-to-date with Colorado Politics by signing up for our weekly newsletter, The Spot. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver If Broncos get Burnham Yard stadium done, what happens at Empower Field site? If Broncos get Burnham Yard stadium done, what happens at Empower Field site? Asking Eric: Husband’s downward spiral put him and others at risk Asking Eric: Husband’s downward spiral put him and others at risk A ‘rogue’ Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. A 'rogue' Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. CU Denver faculty concerned over chancellor’s relationship with faculty member CU Denver faculty concerned over chancellor's relationship with faculty member Under new rate request, Xcel Energy electric bills could jump 33% since last increase Under new rate request, Xcel Energy electric bills could jump 33% since last increase Jeffco Public Schools Superintendent Dorland will resign this summer Jeffco Public Schools Superintendent Dorland will resign this summer Military’s selection of Buckley base as possible site for nuclear microreactor spurs questions in Aurora Military's selection of Buckley base as possible site for nuclear microreactor spurs questions in Aurora Michael Bennet, Phil Weiser trade jabs at each other — and Gov. Polis — in televised debate Michael Bennet, Phil Weiser trade jabs at each other -- and Gov. Polis -- in televised debate Frontier Airlines coping with a 48% spike in jet fuel costs Frontier Airlines coping with a 48% spike in jet fuel costs More in Politics ‘Surveillance pricing’ ban, RTD overhaul, a ‘super-secret memo’ and more from the Colorado legislature this week Pentagon watchdog declines to probe Kid Rock flights Trump says Russia and Ukraine have agreed to his request for a 3-day ceasefire and a prisoner swap Trump is lifting restrictions on hunting in national parks, refuges and wilderness areas 2025 October 22 Subscribe News Alerts Submit a News Tip Member Services Become a Member Digital Subscription FAQ Place a Hold Digital Replica Edition Sitemap Classifieds Autos Real Estate Jobs Contact Us Careers Denver Post Store Place an Obituary Advertise With Us Network Advertising Privacy Policy Accessibility Today’s Front Page Back Issues Archives Mobile Apps Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Site Map Ethics Policy Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Denver Post. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close