Denver’s City Council rejected Flock surveilance, but Axon is just as bad (Opinion) – The Denver Post Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 53°F Saturday, May 9th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Home Page News Latest Headlines Colorado News Politics Crime and Public Safety Courts National News World News Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Photos Video Your Hub Weather Sports Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Denver Summit FC College Sports Preps NEW Betting Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio Sports Podcasts Business Business Real Estate Airlines Economy Energy Retail Technology Best Reviews The Know The Know Food and Drink Art Culture Movies TV & Streaming Music Theater Travel Family Friendly Bars Beer Outdoors Outdoors Hiking Fall Colors Cycling Fitness Running Camping Fishing Hunting Water Sports Skiing Snowboarding Winter Sports Opinion Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Things To Do Things To Do Event Calendar Television Listings Comics Games Horoscopes Advice Home & Garden Free and Cheap Cannabis Recipes Denver Post Store Classifieds Classifieds Automotive Homes Jobs Branded Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log in Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Opinion Columnists | Denver’s City Council rejected Flock… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 53°F Saturday, May 9th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Opinion Columnists Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Trending: Avalanche vs. Wild schedule 🏒 Free summer concert guide 🎸 A-Basin extends season ⛷️ Opinion Opinion Columnists Opinion, Opinion Columnist Opinion, Opinion Columnist Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the author’s interpretation of facts and data. , Represents the opinion of the author who is either a paid columnist or an unpaid guest columnist. Denver’s City Council rejected Flock surveilance, but Axon is just as bad (Opinion) Denver City Council will vote tonight on license plate readers through Axon Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X A Flock Safety license plate recognition camera is seen near the intersection of Marine Street and Arapahoe Avenue in Boulder on Thursday, March 5, 2026. (Matthew Jonas/Staff Photographer) By Jennifer Piper | Guest Commentary PUBLISHED: March 23, 2026 at 9:36 AM MDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... It’s clear that Mayor Mike Johnston’s office does not understand, or does not care about, the underlying privacy and human rights concerns raised by many of his constituents; fortunately, Denver’s city councilmembers can do better. Thousands of Denverites have made it clear that they reject constant and unwarranted surveillance, the violations of our constitutional rights and that we find the profits companies rake in selling our data unconscionable. Over the last year, organizations like mine, the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), successfully organized to end Denver’s contracts with one such company, Flock. But now Mayor Johnston is proposing another contract using our taxpayer dollars, with Axon Enterprises, a company at the forefront of the Trump administration’s investments in the surveillance state. Denver residents are deeply engaged in networks of rapid response and mutual aid, seeking to protect one another as more ICE agents hit the streets each day in rapid, kidnap-style actions profiling immigrants and people of color. Each day, we receive dozens of calls to the Colorado Rapid Response hotline and hear from our volunteers across the city. A pattern of indiscriminate detention targeting the breadwinners of immigrant families has emerged. The machinery of this injustice involves few humans and relies on the corporate surveillance state. Artificial Intelligence selects which of our neighbors to unleash ICE on next. The cameras behind the License Plate Reader system build data profiles on all of our driving patterns, creating dozens of location data points for each unique license plate daily. This data is sold to other companies, analyzed by AI and compared against lists of people who’ve applied for asylum, temporary statuses or green cards. These companies sell ICE a list of our neighbors whose routines are predictable — be they advocates or immigrants. The federal government’s ability to wreak havoc and attempt to silence our communities depends mightily on the machines running on our streets and in data centers. Axon currently has a $370 million contract to provide ICE and DHS with body cameras, TASERs, and other devices and technologies. Their technologies have been used in immigration enforcement and deportation operations. And on a recent earnings call, their CEO told investors the company’s rapid growth was attributed to its “AI era plan”, which includes a voice-activated companion to body cameras, as the company eyes federal law enforcement contracts as a “major opportunity” for the company. This is not surprising. Axon’s head of DHS program and strategy is Ronald D. Vitiello , who served as the acting director of ICE under the first Trump administration, where he oversaw the implementation of the zero-tolerance policy that separated families at the border. Related Articles License plate readers are a good and valid tool for public safety in Colorado (Letters) Denver keeps license plate cameras as council approves Axon contract in a tight vote Three former Denver mayors urge a ‘yes’ vote on license plate cameras (Opinion) As Denver council faces vote on new license plate cameras contract, distaste lingers for ‘this whole Flock era’ Denver’s new license plate reader deal is for 50 cameras — less than half as many as Flock has now Since joining Axon, he has deepened the company’s relationship with DHS agencies. Amid reports of informal information sharing with federal immigration agents, we must question both the technologies we’re inviting into our city and the private companies that control them. Axon’s relationships and technologies are not only a threat to our privacy today, but inviting the company into our community will only be the beginning. While the company markets its products as an accountability tool, it can quickly become one of mass surveillance. Axon is already testing its enhanced facial recognition body cameras to check against police records with the Edmonton Police Department, raising serious concerns about civil liberties and privacy. Inviting Axon into our community sets a dangerous precedent, and our residents deserve to understand the full scope of what this partnership means. For the safety of our community and the protection of our civil liberties, the City Council must vote against a contract with Axon. Jennifer Piper is the Program Director for the Colorado office of the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), a Quaker-based peace and social justice organization. For more than two decades Ms. Piper has worked extensively at the intersection of legal, community, and policy solutions to support the human rights of immigrants and the larger community. Sign up for Sound Off to get a weekly roundup of our columns, editorials and more. To send a letter to the editor about this article, submit online or check out our guidelines for how to submit by email or mail. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Frontier Airlines flight bound for Los Angeles hits, kills person on runway at Denver International Airport Frontier Airlines flight bound for Los Angeles hits, kills person on runway at Denver International Airport Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver If Broncos get Burnham Yard stadium done, what happens at Empower Field site? If Broncos get Burnham Yard stadium done, what happens at Empower Field site? Cherry Hills mansion fetches $10M, tops April home sales Cherry Hills mansion fetches $10M, tops April home sales A ‘rogue’ Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. A 'rogue' Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. Grading the Week: Ex-Broncos QB Russell Wilson’s Met Gala outfit channels Michael Jackson and Cap’n Crunch Grading the Week: Ex-Broncos QB Russell Wilson's Met Gala outfit channels Michael Jackson and Cap'n Crunch Asking Eric: Husband’s downward spiral put him and others at risk Asking Eric: Husband’s downward spiral put him and others at risk Under new rate request, Xcel Energy electric bills could jump 33% since last increase Under new rate request, Xcel Energy electric bills could jump 33% since last increase Avalanche will have a couple tough decisions this summer now that NHL salary cap is set | Journal Avalanche will have a couple tough decisions this summer now that NHL salary cap is set | Journal CU Denver faculty concerned over chancellor’s relationship with faculty member CU Denver faculty concerned over chancellor's relationship with faculty member More in Opinion Columnists Colorado’s economy needs data centers. Let’s bring them here on our terms. (Opinion) The West heads for wildfires unprepared (Opinion) Denver’s heart and hard work could be a compass for the DNC in 2028 (Editorial) AI ended my career, but it doesn’t have to be this way (Opinion) 2026 March 23 Subscribe News Alerts Submit a News Tip Member Services Become a Member Digital Subscription FAQ Place a Hold Digital Replica Edition Sitemap Classifieds Autos Real Estate Jobs Contact Us Careers Denver Post Store Place an Obituary Advertise With Us Network Advertising Privacy Policy Accessibility Today’s Front Page Back Issues Archives Mobile Apps Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Site Map Ethics Policy Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Denver Post. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close advertisement advertisement advertisement