Denver council considers license plate cameras replacement for Flock Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 50°F Sunday, May 10th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Home Page News Latest Headlines Colorado News Politics Crime and Public Safety Courts National News World News Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Photos Video Your Hub Weather Sports Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Denver Summit FC College Sports Preps NEW Betting Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio Sports Podcasts Business Business Real Estate Airlines Economy Energy Retail Technology Best Reviews The Know The Know Food and Drink Art Culture Movies TV & Streaming Music Theater Travel Family Friendly Bars Beer Outdoors Outdoors Hiking Fall Colors Cycling Fitness Running Camping Fishing Hunting Water Sports Skiing Snowboarding Winter Sports Opinion Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Things To Do Things To Do Event Calendar Television Listings Comics Games Horoscopes Advice Home & Garden Free and Cheap Cannabis Recipes Denver Post Store Classifieds Classifieds Automotive Homes Jobs Branded Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log in Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Politics | Denver’s new license plate reader deal is for… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 50°F Sunday, May 10th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Politics Latest Headlines Colorado Politics Crime Nation World Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Trending: Avalanche vs. Wild schedule 🏒 Free summer concert guide 🎸 A-Basin extends season ⛷️ News Politics News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Denver’s new license plate reader deal is for 50 cameras — less than half as many as Flock has now Council begins consideration of Axon contract, with temperature lower on hot-button issue Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X By Elliott Wenzler | ewenzler@denverpost.com | The Denver Post PUBLISHED: March 11, 2026 at 4:45 PM MDT | UPDATED: March 11, 2026 at 4:56 PM MDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Denver City Council dug into details of a new proposed contract with Axon Enterprise on Wednesday during an initial presentation about the company’s license plate-reading cameras. If a majority of the council approves the not-yet-finished contract, it will replace the city’s current system with the controversial company Flock Safety . The city’s final contract with Flock expires this month, and its cameras are then set to be decommissioned. A Flock Safety license plate recognition camera is seen near the intersection of Marine Street and Arapahoe Avenue in Boulder on Thursday, March 5, 2026. (Matthew Jonas/Staff Photographer) The $150,000 contract with Axon would be for a year and would include the installation of 50 license plate-reading cameras in public intersections in the city. They would snap photos of passing cars to capture their license plates and any identifiable features — such as a scratch or a dent — and use that data to help investigate crimes like car thefts, hit-and-runs, kidnappings and homicides. Currently, the city has 111 Flock-operated cameras doing that work. The meeting marked a lowering of the temperature for discussions around the city’s license plate-reader system. Council members and hundreds of Denver residents have criticized Mayor Mike Johnston’s office in recent months after his administration repeatedly extended the city’s contract with Flock last year without council approval. “It took a very long time to get this level of responsiveness, and I’m glad that we’re getting it — but I’m not feeling like any of this would have happened if we had not had a huge amount of accountability from the public,” said Councilwoman Sarah Parady, one of the most vocal critics of Flock, during the meeting. Tim Hoffman, the director of policy for the mayor’s office, asked the council’s Health and Safety Committee to delay a vote until its meeting next week so that the city could have more time to complete the contract’s details. Multiple council members said they would withhold their support for the new agreement until they had a chance to see the details in that contract. Parady said she saw some improvements between the two companies but still had some concerns. Council members on the committee asked for more details, including about potential audits of the system’s usage, the data retention policy and the potential to share data with other agencies in the future. Flock has been under heightened scrutiny nationwide after reports showed that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents have used Flock’s database to aid in President Donald Trump’s mass-deportation campaign. ICE agents were able to access Denver’s data nearly 1,400 times in 2024 and 2025 before the city asked to be removed from Flock’s national database last April. Related Articles Council vote gives lifeline to thousands of planned Denver apartments Denver Pavilions receives dire diagnosis from panel of urban experts Westernaires to end all Native American portrayals — including Battle of Little Bighorn Lime and Bird are out, Veo is in. Here’s what Denver scooter riders need to know about the city’s new contract. Denver’s nightlife may expand until 4 a.m. under proposal to ‘keep the party going’ While some elements of the new system would be similar to Flock’s, it will have significant differences , city officials have said, particularly around some of the most-scrutinized elements of the systems. The city plans to set the data retention period for Axon’s cameras to only 21 days, nine days shorter than it was for Flock. Axon doesn’t have a national database for other law enforcement agencies to participate in, like Flock did. Denver’s system also will be cut off from all other law enforcement agencies, and its overseers will create an invite-only sharing system with nearby law enforcement agencies that agree to abide by certain rules. The mayor’s office decided to bring the contract through the council process, despite its value being below the $500,000 threshold that requires council approval, in an effort to be more collaborative, Johnston said in February. The committee is now set on March 18 to consider advancing the finalized contract to the full council. Stay up-to-date with Colorado Politics by signing up for our weekly newsletter, The Spot. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Frontier Airlines flight bound for Los Angeles hits, kills person on runway at Denver International Airport Frontier Airlines flight bound for Los Angeles hits, kills person on runway at Denver International Airport Cherry Hills mansion fetches $10M, tops April home sales Cherry Hills mansion fetches $10M, tops April home sales Grading the Week: Ex-Broncos QB Russell Wilson’s Met Gala outfit channels Michael Jackson and Cap’n Crunch Grading the Week: Ex-Broncos QB Russell Wilson's Met Gala outfit channels Michael Jackson and Cap'n Crunch Avalanche will have a couple tough decisions this summer now that NHL salary cap is set | Journal Avalanche will have a couple tough decisions this summer now that NHL salary cap is set | Journal Five takeaways from Broncos rookie minicamp: RB Jonah Coleman is NFL-ready for third-down work Five takeaways from Broncos rookie minicamp: RB Jonah Coleman is NFL-ready for third-down work Here’s every Fiddler’s Green Amphitheatre concert for summer 2026 Here's every Fiddler's Green Amphitheatre concert for summer 2026 Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver Summer 2026 guide to free, all-ages concerts around Denver Jeffco Public Schools Superintendent Dorland will resign this summer Jeffco Public Schools Superintendent Dorland will resign this summer Arapahoe Basin extends ski season after heavy spring snow Arapahoe Basin extends ski season after heavy spring snow A ‘rogue’ Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. A 'rogue' Colorado cop was fired for dishonesty. He kept his badge despite state reforms. More in Politics After two years of struggle, lawmakers are poised to rewrite — and scale back — Colorado’s AI regulations ‘Surveillance pricing’ ban, RTD overhaul, a ‘super-secret memo’ and more from the Colorado legislature this week Pentagon watchdog declines to probe Kid Rock flights Trump says Russia and Ukraine have agreed to his request for a 3-day ceasefire and a prisoner swap 2026 March 11 Subscribe News Alerts Submit a News Tip Member Services Become a Member Digital Subscription FAQ Place a Hold Digital Replica Edition Sitemap Classifieds Autos Real Estate Jobs Contact Us Careers Denver Post Store Place an Obituary Advertise With Us Network Advertising Privacy Policy Accessibility Today’s Front Page Back Issues Archives Mobile Apps Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Site Map Ethics Policy Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Denver Post. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close advertisement advertisement advertisement