source: packet.pdf
sha256: ab239b12a9bb923e4a75e7ae722a9fb5381944c0179dfcd6b1a6e712df2b4568
pages: 10
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Community Relations Commission 
March 15, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall-Conference Room C
330 W 20  Avenue
San Mateo, Ca 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Meghan Crowell- Chair
Sheri Boles- Vice Chair
Noopur Vyas Anand
Jerold Nugent
Alli Fitzgerald
 
AGENDA
 
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here:  Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 822 6768 6176
     Passcode:990246
The meeting will conclude by 10:00 pm unless otherwise agreed upon by the Community Relations Commission to adjourn earlier or extend the length of the
meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve minutes of the Community Relations Commission meeting of December 1, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Preliminary Community Engagement Findings for 2023-27 Consolidated Plan Preparation
th
1 of 10

--- page 2 ---
That the Community Relations Commission review and provide comment on the preliminary findings of the
community engagement process for the preparation of the 2023 – 2027 Consolidated Plan to be submitted to
HUD.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the oﬃcial record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: nvu@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. To
speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate me.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Housing Division at
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7229.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Housing Division at
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7229.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 10

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7252
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve minutes of the Community Relations Commission meeting of December 1, 2022.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - December 1, 2022 Special Meeting minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
3 of 10

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION – SPECIAL MEETING          
MINUTES – December 1, 2022 
The December 1, 2022 Special Meeting of the Community Relations Commission (CRC) was called to order 
virtually over Zoom at 7:00 pm. Chair Crowell called the meeting to order. 
 
ROLL CALL 
Commissioners Anand, Boles, and Crowell were present. Commissioners Nugent and Overall were not present. 
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT 
Eloiza Murillo‐Garcia, Housing Manager; and Nicholas Vu, Housing Specialist were present.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR / APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
The minutes of the September 14, 2022 meeting were approved. (Boles/Anand; 3‐0‐0) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
1. 2023‐28 Consolidated Community Development Block Grant Plan 
Staff and consultant presentation for engaging community feedback for the development of the 2023 – 2028 
Consolidated CDBG Plan. One participant came in person to the meeting representing HIP Housing. Eight 
participants attended the meeting virtually through zoom and phone call. The following community members and 
organizations spoke in support of various affordable housing, special needs populations, and economic and 
community development priorities: 
 
Karen Shea (community member) 
 
Marilyn Busey (St. James AME Zion Church) 
 
Valerie Rynne (community member/Golden Gate Regional Center) 
 
Caroline Sheppard (Solutions for Supportive Homes) 
 
2. 2023‐24 Community Funding Request for Proposals 
Staff to announce the availability of the request for proposals of the 2023‐2024 Community Funding Program. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
No reports or announcements were made. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
With no further business before the Commission, the meeting adjourned at 8:16 pm (Anand/Boles; 3‐0‐0). 
 
4 of 10

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 23-7244
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Preliminary Community Engagement Findings for 2023-27 Consolidated Plan Preparation
RECOMMENDATION:
That the Community Relations Commission review and provide comment on the preliminary findings of the community 
engagement process for the preparation of the 2023 – 2027 Consolidated Plan to be submitted to HUD.
BACKGROUND:
Each year, the City of San Mateo receives funds from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
for the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG).  The program provides funding to support needed projects 
and services for San Mateo's most vulnerable community members.  The current CDBG project and program areas include, 
but are not limited to, public service grants to nonprofit agencies, home repairs for low-income homeowners, and 
improvements to neighborhood parks and public infrastructure in the CDBG target areas.
For the next five HUD program years, 2023-27, the Consolidated Plan will include a summary of the City's CDBG related 
needs, priorities, and long-term programs and projects to address community development, housing and homelessness, 
and public services for lower income households. These are determined based on input from the community and on the 
growing trends and gaps in services which funding from the CDBG program could help to fill. The Community Relations 
Commission (CRC) is hosting a meeting at which the City’s consultant, Root Policy, will present the findings of the 
community engagement process and findings that helped to guide the development of the draft 2023-2027 Consolidated 
plan.
Preliminary Findings
To help inform the development of the Consolidated Plan update, the City of San Mateo, in collaboration with San Mateo 
County and the county’s three other entitlement cities (Daly City, Redwood City, and South San Francisco), consulted with 
over 40 stakeholders and developed a resident and stakeholder survey to identify housing, community development, and 
economic development needs. The City also hosted a public meeting during the Community Relations Commission on 
December 1, 2022, to hear from residents about needs throughout San Mateo and which outcomes should be prioritized 
with the City’s federal funding allocation.
A total of 80 residents participated in a survey to support the City of San Mateo’s Consolidated Plan update. The survey 
was available to both residents in San Mateo City and individuals working in the fields of housing and community 
development, lending, social services, and fair housing and advocacy, serving the city of San Mateo. Participation was 
voluntary.
The preliminary community engagement findings focus on the following topic areas:
5 of 10

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1)
Groups with the greatest housing challenges;
2)
Improving housing security;
3)
Housing activities and outcomes;
4)
Community development activities and outcomes; and
5)
Economic development activities and outcomes.
More detail for each of the main topic areas is available in Attachment 1, Preliminary Consolidated Plan engagement 
findings. Each topic area contains the top responses that was compiled as a result of the community engagement.
The purpose of the meeting is to request input to determine if the findings accurately reflect the needs and concerns of 
the community as they relate to both CDBG and housing in the City of San Mateo. The feedback from the community will 
be compiled into the outreach efforts of the 2023-2027 Consolidated Plan. 
NEXT STEPS:
The draft plan is scheduled to be released on the City website for a 30-day public review period beginning on April 3, 2023 
until May 1, 2023. The CRC will tentatively reconvene on April 19, 2023, to recommend approval of the draft 2023-2027 
Consolidated Plan and 2023 Annual Action Plan, with a City Council public hearing tentatively scheduled for May 1, 2023. 
After Council approval, the 2023-2027 Consolidated Plan and the 2023 Annual Action Plan will be submitted to HUD by the 
May 15, 2023 statutory deadline.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This community meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.  The meeting was noticed in accordance with the City's current Community 
Participation Plan.  This includes publication in the San Mateo Daily Journal, email distribution to interested parties, flyer 
distribution to community organizations, and posting on the City website.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Preliminary Consolidated Plan Engagement Findings
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
6 of 10

--- page 7 ---
MEMORANDUM 
To: 
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia and Nicky Vu, City of San Mateo 
From: 
Frankie Lewington, Root Policy Research 
Re:  
Preliminary Consolidated Plan engagement findings  
Date: 
Tuesday, March 7th, 2023 
 
Community engagement overview 
To help inform the development of the Consolidated Plan update, the City of San Mateo, in 
collaboration with San Mateo County and the county’s three other entitlement cities (Daly 
City, Redwood City, and South San Francisco), consulted with over 40 stakeholders and 
developed a resident and stakeholder survey to identify housing, community development, 
and economic development needs. The City also hosted a public meeting during the 
Community Relations Commission on December 1, 2022, to hear from residents about needs 
throughout San Mateo and which outcomes should be prioritized with the City’s federal 
funding allocation. 
Preliminary engagement findings 
A total of 80 residents participated in the survey to support the City of San Mateo’s 
Consolidated Plan update. The survey was available to both residents in San Mateo City and 
individuals working in the fields of housing and community development, lending, social 
services, and fair housing and advocacy, serving the city of San Mateo. Participation was 
voluntary. 
Groups with the greatest housing challenges. Respondents from the city 
of San Mateo identified the following resident groups with the greatest housing challenges 
in the city: 
 
Low- to moderate-income families; 
 
Persons or families experiencing homelessness; 
 
Persons with disabilities; 
 
Persons with a mental illness; 
 
Seniors/elderly persons. 
7 of 10

--- page 8 ---
Page 2 
 
Improving housing security. Residents were asked how they could improve their 
housing security. The top solutions to improving housing security in the city of San Mateo 
include:  
 
Find a home I can afford to buy/increase inventory of affordable homes for sale; 
 
Help me get a loan to buy a house; 
 
Help me with a down payment/purchase. 
 
Housing activities and outcomes. Residents identified which housing activities 
are most needed in their city and the county. These activities include: 
 
Rental housing for low-income renters; 
 
Homeownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents; 
 
Emergency shelters or homeless shelters for persons experiencing homelessness or 
housing instability; 
 
Housing for people or households experiencing or have experienced domestic violence; 
 
Housing hazard mitigation.  
Participants in the community meeting also articulated a need for more Section 8 housing 
choice vouchers. Participants spoke to the significant challenges that voucher holders face in 
finding an affordable unit in the city, as well as countywide. One participant said that the lack 
of stable housing situations means households, particularly parents with children, are more 
reliant on supportive services as a result. 
Some participants felt emergency shelters should better account for clients who come in with 
special needs. Participants also pointed to a great need for workforce housing (e.g., 
affordable for teachers and other educators), as well as more inclusive and affordable 
housing for people with developmental disabilities. One participant also called out the need 
to increase housing to support children who are transitioning out of the foster care system. 
Participants noted that increased support from the City to non-profits in the form of 
assistance and partnerships would be welcome, especially among smaller non-profits that 
want to create housing with supportive services.  
In the survey, residents also indicated which five housing outcomes they would most like to 
see as a result of HUD funding. These outcomes include: 
 
More affordable rental housing for vulnerable populations; 
 
More affordable homes for first-time homebuyers, young adults, low-income residents, 
and large households; 
8 of 10

--- page 9 ---
Page 3 
 
Increased permanent housing options for persons experiencing homelessness or 
housing instability; 
 
More housing choice vouchers or rental subsidies; and 
 
Better distribution of affordable housing in the county.  
Community development activities and outcomes. Residents chose 
which community development needs are not being met in the city, including: 
 
Affordable childcare; 
 
Mental health services; 
 
Supportive services for vulnerable populations; 
 
Sidewalks, street lights, and other neighborhood improvements; 
 
Job training programs and access to reliable public transportation (tie).  
Community development needs identified by residents in the city of San Mateo are 
consistent with findings from the stakeholder survey and stakeholder interviews. The majority 
of stakeholders mentioned that San Mateo County severely lacks affordable childcare 
options. A lack of affordable childcare has put increasing economic pressure on families and 
exacerbated risks of homelessness or housing instability. Shortages for mental health services 
was also mentioned by stakeholders from a variety of industries.  
Participants in the public meeting re-affirmed the significant need for more mental health 
services in the city, particularly for youth populations. One participant wanted to see more 
support for aging parents who are taking care of their children with mental and other health 
challenges, particularly more supportive housing arrangements. 
When asked which community development outcomes they would most like to see, San 
Mateo City residents identified: 
 
Additional and/or higher quality childcare centers; 
 
Increased access to mental health care services; 
 
Street and sidewalk improvements; 
 
Improvements to parks and recreation centers; 
 
More recreation opportunities for youth and special populations (Figure 10).  
Economic development activities and outcomes. The most important 
economic development outcomes were also identified: 
 
Revitalization of neighborhood businesses or commercial areas; 
 
Job training programs or job training centers; 
9 of 10

--- page 10 ---
Page 4 
 
More opportunities for start-up businesses, businesses looking to expand, or businesses 
looking to relocate. 
Participants in the public meeting wanted to see more job training opportunities for people 
with disabilities and cognitive challenges. One participant felt focusing this training on “green 
jobs” would be helpful. Other participants pointed out that in order to take advantage of 
increased job training and education opportunities, better public and more accessible transit 
is needed. Some residents are not able to access public transportation because they are not 
mobile enough. 
 
 
10 of 10