source: packet.pdf
sha256: 29e67a26fe2b93afd37cf08c3780c62d53724678fdaab5b55921dadad711d6c8
pages: 35
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
March 6, 2023
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 6, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 895 1377 9544      Passcode: 838746
Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash will teleconference into this meeting from:
364-1, Naoshima, Kagawa District, Kagawa 761-3110, Japan
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Investment Policy Environmental, Social, and Governance Considerations
Receive a report and presentation on Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) or Socially Responsible
Investing (SRI) and provide feedback and guidance on the potential for adding either concept into the City's
Investment Policy.
CEQA: This ESG/SRI study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
1 of 35

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 35

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 22-6579
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Investment Policy Environmental, Social, and Governance Considerations
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a report and presentation on Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) or Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) 
and provide feedback and guidance on the potential for adding either concept into the City's Investment Policy.
BACKGROUND:
Strategic Initiative 34 of the City Council's 2022-23 Strategic Plan is to study the fiscal impact of adopting an 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) provision for the City’s investment policy. Chandler Asset Management 
(Chandler), the City's investment advisor, provided an ESG presentation to the Investment Advisory Committee on July 21, 
2022. 
While the Council’s initiative is to study the fiscal impact of ESG, it is important to distinguish it from Socially Responsible 
Investing (SRI), which is commonly confused with ESG. 
SRI is the most common and straight-forward investment governance strategy, as it uses exclusion based on the investor’s 
ethical and moral values. If the City were to opt for SRI strategy, it would need to develop an exclusion list (i.e., no issuers 
whose principal operations are directly related to fossil fuels and guns).
ESG is less common and has become very subjective, as the investor proactively promotes its environment, social, and 
governance factors that drive the marketplace. ESG would need to develop a scorecard for the City’s investment entities to 
be evaluated based on selected criteria, which can include, but is not limited to the following considerations:
Environmental
Social
Governance
Climate Change & Carbon Emission
Data Protection & Privacy
Bribery & Corruption
Air & Water Pollution
Gender & Diversity
Board Composition
Energy Efficiency
Human Rights
Lobbying
 
If the City opted to implement an ESG strategy:
1. It would attempt to impact the specific ESG consideration and by extension, have a societal impact; or
2. The City would have a theme or trend by promoting issuers that fit the City’s criteria.
Of the two strategies, ESG is the most administratively burdensome, as the City would need to develop the criteria for 
each ESG consideration and evaluate based on a scale that makes sense. Many investors partner with third-party vendors 
3 of 35

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
that have already built their criteria, assigned a score, and set up criteria for the investor’s program to determine if the 
scores meet the investor’s needs/criteria for inclusion in the portfolio.
The primary challenge between third-party ESG vendors is that there is a wide divergence between ESG ratings on the 
same issuers. As such, if the City prefers to implement one of these strategies, SRI would be the better option, as it is much 
more straightforward. The City Council would need to determine the City’s values (with respect to the City’s investment 
portfolio) and exclude issuers that do not align with those values. Part and parcel to the strategic initiative at hand, if the 
City Council opted to implement SRI, the change may have an impact on the City’s Investment Policy priorities, which are, 
in order: safety, liquidity, and yield.
For example, if the City were to implement SRI and exclude any issuers directly related to fossil fuels, there would be no 
impact to the City’s investment portfolio, as none of the investments are with issuers whose primary business is directly 
related to the oil and fossil fuels industry. 
However, if the Council were to provide direction to exclude any issuers related to the auto industry, as shown in the City’s 
investment portfolio characteristics for January 2023 via Attachment 1, its holdings include a number asset-backed 
securities from car loans, which are permitted in the City’s Investment Policy, included as Attachment 2, as well as 
California Government Code Section 53600 et. seq. In addition to an impact on the City’s investment return, the potential 
SRI exclusion would also reduce the City’s investment portfolio diversity, which serves to address the financial impact of 
any economic ebb/flow in specific business sectors.
Some other actions that the City may want to consider with an SRI strategy implementation is:
1.
Make the exclusion guidance implementable/straight-forward. For example, if the Council were to direct staff to 
exclude any issuer that has any direct or indirect relationship with fossil fuels, the direction would be 
unimplementable.
2.
Actions should be verifiable with the compliance report. With an exclusion for issuers directly related to fossil 
fuels, the compliance report can either state that specific issuers were avoided or that all the issuers comply with 
the SRI guidance provided by the City.
One final consideration is fiduciary duty that is imposed by State law on policy makers, staff, and investment consultants – 
namely safety, liquidity, and yield, juxtaposed against any SRI or ESG considerations that the Council may want to 
implement.
The City’s Investment Advisory Committee (IAC) discussed ESG/SRI at its meeting on July 21, 2022, and recommend that 
the City not implement ESG or SRI strategies primarily due to:
1.
The subjective and divergent nature of ESG.
2.
The impact on the City’s ability to meet its priority of maximizing yield as noted in the Investment Policy and State 
code. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
If the City were to opt for an SRI or ESG strategy, the limitations would impact the City’s ability to meet its fiduciary duty to 
prioritize safety, liquidity, and yield, as well as reducing its investment policy diversification. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ESG/SRI study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
4 of 35

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – January 2023 Investment Portfolio Characteristics
Att 2 – 2022 Investment Policy
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
5 of 35

--- page 6 ---
Portfolio Characteristics
City of San Mateo Consolidated
01/31/23
10/31/22 
Portfolio
Portfolio
Average Maturity (yrs)
1.14
1.18
Modified Duration
1.01
1.05
Average Purchase Yield
2.58%
2.03%
Average Market Yield
3.60%
3.47% 
Average Quality*
AA+/Aa1
AAA/Aa1
Total Market Value
438,225,573
360,959,513
* Portfolio is S&P and Moody’s respectively.
As of January 31, 2023
6 of 35

--- page 7 ---
City of San Mateo Consolidated
Sector Distribution
ABS
2.9%
Agency
18.6%
Cash
6.5%
CMO
1.1%
Corporate
10.6%
LAIF
12.2%
Local Gov 
Investment Pool
32.5%
Negotiable CD
0.1%
Supranational
0.9%
US Treasury
14.6%
January 31, 2023
October 31, 2022
ABS
3.8%
Agency
23.8%
Cash
0.1%
CMO
1.3%
Corporate
9.3%
LAIF
13.3%
Local Gov 
Investment Pool
34.6%
Negotiable CD
0.3%
Supranational
1.1%
US Treasury
12.5%
As of January 31, 2023
7 of 35

--- page 8 ---
Issue Name
Investment Type
% Portfolio
CAMP
Local Gov Investment Pool
19.08%
Government of United States
US Treasury
14.60%
Federal Home Loan Bank
Agency
14.27%
San Mateo County Pool
Local Gov Investment Pool
13.41%
Local Agency Investment Fund
LAIF
12.16%
Bank Cash Account
Cash
6.49%
Federal Farm Credit Bank
Agency
2.33%
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp
CMO
1.11%
Federal National Mortgage Association
Agency
1.05%
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp
Agency
0.94%
Royal Bank of Canada
Corporate
0.78%
Toyota Motor Corp
Corporate
0.68%
Bank of America Corp
Corporate
0.64%
Intl Bank Recon and Development
Supranational
0.63%
Toronto Dominion Holdings
Corporate
0.62%
New York Life Global Funding
Corporate
0.62%
United Health Group Inc
Corporate
0.58%
Caterpillar Inc
Corporate
0.51%
Realty Income Corp
Corporate
0.50%
American Express ABS
ABS
0.47%
Mass Mutual Insurance
Corporate
0.46%
Deere & Company
Corporate
0.46%
Northwestern Mutual Glbl
Corporate
0.45%
Paccar Financial
Corporate
0.43%
Metlife Inc
Corporate
0.43%
John Deere ABS
ABS
0.39%
Morgan Stanley
Corporate
0.36%
Honda ABS
ABS
0.35%
Hyundai Auto Lease Securitization
ABS
0.34%
Hyundai Auto Receivables
ABS
0.32%
Inter-American Dev Bank
Supranational
0.32%
JP Morgan Chase & Co
Corporate
0.29%
GM Financial Automobile Leasing Trust
ABS
0.28%
Wal-Mart Stores
Corporate
0.26%
Charles Schwab Corp/The
Corporate
0.25%
Amazon.com Inc
Corporate
0.24%
US Bancorp
Corporate
0.23%
Chubb Corporation
Corporate
0.22%
Issuers
City of San Mateo Consolidated – Account #10720
As of January 31, 2023
8 of 35

--- page 9 ---
Issue Name
Investment Type
% Portfolio
National Rural Utilities
Corporate
0.22%
BMW Vehicle Lease Trust
ABS
0.20%
Guardian Life Global Funding
Corporate
0.19%
Berkshire Hathaway
Corporate
0.19%
Toyota ABS
ABS
0.18%
Bank of New York
Corporate
0.17%
Apple Inc
Corporate
0.16%
Salesforce.com Inc
Corporate
0.16%
Honeywell Corp
Corporate
0.15%
Bank of Montreal Chicago
Corporate
0.15%
Verizon Master Trust
ABS
0.14%
BMW ABS
ABS
0.12%
Royal Bank of Canada
Negotiable CD
0.12%
Truist Financial Corporation
Corporate
0.09%
Target Corp
Corporate
0.09%
GM Financial Securitized Term Auto Trust
ABS
0.07%
Verizon Owner Trust
ABS
0.04%
Nissan ABS
ABS
0.01%
Mercedes-Benz Auto Lease Trust
ABS
0.00%
TOTAL
100.00%
Issuers
City of San Mateo Consolidated – Account #10720
As of January 31, 2023
9 of 35

--- page 10 ---
ADOPTED – January 18, 2022 
BY CITY COUNCIL 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
AND CITY OF SAN MATEO, ACTING AS SUCCESSOR AGENCY TO THE REDEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
I.
SCOPE AND AUTHORITY
In accordance with the Charter of the City of San Mateo, (the “City”), the Finance Director/City
Treasurer is responsible for investing the unexpended cash of the City and the Successor Agency to
the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo (the “Successor Agency”) in the City
Treasury. The authority governing investments for local agencies is set forth in the California
Government Code Sections 41006 and 53600 et. seq.
This Investment Policy (the “Policy”) applies to all the investment activities of the City and the
Successor Agency. The Policy will also apply to all other funds under the Finance Director/City
Treasurer’s span of control unless specifically exempted by statute or ordinance. All the invested
financial assets are accounted for in the City’s fund accounting system which includes: General
Fund, Special Revenue Funds, Capital Project Funds, Enterprise Funds, Debt Service Funds,
Internal Service Funds, and Successor Agency Funds.
All cash shall be pooled for investment purposes. The investment income derived from the pooled
investment account shall be allocated to the contributing funds based upon the proportion of the
respective average balances relative to the total pooled balance. Investment income shall be
distributed to the individual funds not less than annually.
II.
OBJECTIVES
City and Successor Agency funds shall be invested in accordance with all applicable City policies
and codes, State statutes, and Federal regulations, and in a manner designed to accomplish the
following objectives, which are listed in priority order:
A.
Safety of principal
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments will be
undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall
portfolio. To attain this objective, the City will diversify its investments by investing funds
among a variety of securities with independent returns.
B.
Liquidity Standard
The investment portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to meet all operating requirements
that may be reasonably anticipated.
2022 
INVESTMENT POLICY 
10 of 35

--- page 11 ---
C.
Return on investment
The City’s investment portfolio shall be structured to attain a market-average rate of return
through economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints for safety and
liquidity needs.
III.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
Authority to manage the City’s investment program is derived from California Government Code,
Sections 41006 and 53600 et seq.
The City Council is responsible for the management of the City’s funds, including the administration
of this investment policy. Management responsibility for the cash management of the City’s funds
is hereby delegated to the Finance Director/City Treasurer (or his/her designee), who is appointed
by the City Manager in accordance with the City Charter. Staff members of the Finance
Department’s Treasury Division may be assigned to perform the day-to-day treasury activities
related to the investment of City funds. No person may engage in an investment transaction except
as expressly provided under the terms of this Policy.
The City may utilize the services of an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, so long as it can be demonstrated that these services produce a net financial advantage
or necessary financial protection of the City’s financial resources. The adviser shall follow this
Policy and such other written instructions as provided. Use of professional investment advisers is
subject to City review and overriding discretion which will be exercised as needed. External
investment advisers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment securities in
accordance with this investment policy.
The City’s overall investment program shall be designed and managed with a degree of
professionalism that is worthy of the public trust. The City recognizes that in a diversified portfolio,
occasional measured losses may be inevitable and must be considered within the context of the
overall portfolio’s return and the cash flow requirements of the City.
IV.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer has established a system of internal controls to ensure
compliance with the investment policies and procedures of the City, the Successor Agency, and the
California Government Code. Such controls shall be designed to prevent losses of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation bythird parties, or imprudent actions by
employees of the City. Investment decisions are made by the Finance Director/City Treasurer or
his/her designee and executed by staff of the Finance Department’s Treasury Division. All wire
transfers initiated by Finance Department staff members must be approved and transmitted by the
Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee. Proper documentation obtained from
confirmation and cash disbursement wire transfers is required for each investment transaction.
Timely bank reconciliation is conducted to ensure proper handling of all transactions.
The investment portfolio and all related transactions are reviewed and balanced to appropriate
general ledger accounts by senior finance staff on a monthly basis. An independent analysis by an
external auditor shall be conducted annually to review and perform procedure testing on the City’s
cash and investments. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall review and assure compliance with
investment processes and procedures.
11 of 35

--- page 12 ---
V.
ETHICS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 1090 et seq. and 87100 et seq., officers
and employees of the City will refrain from any activity that could conflict with the proper execution
of the investment program or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment
decisions, and all investment personnel shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to
those of the City. In addition, City Council members, the City Manager, and Finance Director/City
Treasurer, shall comply with the reporting requirements of California Government Code Section
87203 and regulations of the Fair Political Practices Commission and file a Statement of Economic
Interest annually.
VI.
PRUDENT INVESTOR STANDARD
The standard of prudence to be used for managing the City’s investments shall be California
Government Code Section 53600.3, the prudent investor standard, which states that “When
investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing public funds, a
trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing,
including, but not limited to, the general economic conditions and the anticipated needs of the
agency, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiarity with those matters would use
in the conduct of funds of a like character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain
the liquidity needs of the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual
investments as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by law.”
The City recognizes that market prices of securities will vary depending on economic and interest
rate conditions at any point in time. It is further recognized, that in a well-diversified investment
portfolio, occasional measured losses may occur due to economic, bond market, or individual
security credit events. These occasional declines in value must be considered within the context of
the overall investment program objectives and the resultant long-term rate of return.
The Finance Director/City Treasurer and other individuals assigned to manage the investment
portfolio, acting within the intent and scope of this Policy and other written procedures and
exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal responsibility and liability for an individual
security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported
in a timely manner and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
VII.
AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
All investments and deposits of the City shall be made in accordance with California Government
Code Sections 16429.1, 53600-53609, and 53630-53686. Within the investments permitted by the
Code, the City seeks to further restrict eligible investments to the guidelines listed below. In the
event a discrepancy is found between this policy and the Code, the more restrictive parameters will
take precedence. Percentage holding limits and minimum credit quality listed in this section apply
at the time the security is purchased.
Any investment currently held at the time the policy is adopted which does not meet the new policy
guidelines can be held until maturity, and shall be exempt from the current policy. At the time of
the investment’s maturity or liquidation, such funds shall be reinvested only as provided in the
current policy.
An appropriate risk level shall be maintained by primarily purchasing securities that are of high
quality, liquid, and marketable. The portfolio shall be diversified by security type and institution to
avoid incurring unreasonable and avoidable risks regarding specific security types or individual
issuers. The authorized investments are described below.
A.
United States Treasury notes, bonds, bills, or certificates of indebtedness, or those for which
the full faith and credit of the United States are pledged for the payment of principal and
12 of 35

--- page 13 ---
interest. There is no limitation on the percentage of the portfolio that can be invested in this 
category. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
B.
Federal agency or United States government-sponsored enterprise (“GSE”) obligations,
participations, or other instruments, including those issued by or fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by federal agencies or United States government-sponsored enterprises.
The aggregate investment in federal agency securities/GSEs shall not exceed 70 percent of
the City’s total portfolio, and the securities of any one federal agency/GSE shall not exceed
40 percent of the City’s total portfolio. The maximum percent of agency callable securities in
the portfolio will be 20 percent. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years.
C.
A mortgage passthrough security, collateralized mortgage obligation, mortgage-backed or
other pay-through bond, equipment lease-backed certificate, consumer receivable passthrough
certificate, or consumer receivable-backed bond not defined in paragraphs A or B of the
Authorized Investments section of this policy. Securities eligible for investment under this
subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO
and have a maximum remaining maturity of five years or less. No more than 5 percent of the
City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer. Purchase of securities authorized by
this subdivision shall not exceed 20 percent of the City’s total portfolio.
D.
Medium-Term Notes issued by corporations organized and operating within the United States
or by depository institutions licensed by the United States or any state and operating within
the United States and rated in a rating category of “A” or the equivalent or better by a
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization(NRSRO). The aggregate investment
in medium-term notes shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s total portfolio, and no more
than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the medium-term notes of any
one issuer. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years.
E.
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit with a maturity not exceeding three years from the
date of trade settlement, in state- or nationally-chartered banks or savings banks that are
insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations of California Government Code Section
53638. Amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage shall be secured in accordance with
California Government Code Section 53652. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total
portfolio shall be invested in the deposits of any one bank. The aggregate investment in non-
negotiable certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s total portfolio. The
maximum maturity shall not exceed three years.
F.
“Prime” commercial paper with a maturity not exceeding 270 days from the date of trade
settlement with the highest ranking or of the highest letter and number rating as provided for
by an NRSRO. The entity that issues the commercial paper shall meet all of the following
conditions in either sub-paragraph A. or sub-paragraph B. below:
1) The entity shall (1) be organized and operating in the United States as a general
corporation, (2) have total assets in excess of $500,000,000 and (3) have debt other
than commercial paper, if any, that is rated in a rating category of “A” or the
equivalent or better by an NRSRO.
2) The entity shall (1) be organized within the United States as a special purpose
corporation, trust, or limited liability company, (2) have program-wide credit
enhancements, including, but not limited to, overcollateralization, letters of credit or
surety bond; and (3) have commercial paper that is rated at least “A-1” or the
equivalent by an NRSRO.
13 of 35

--- page 14 ---
The City may purchase no more than 10 percent of the outstanding commercial paper of any 
one issuer, and the aggregate investment in commercial paper shall not exceed 25 percent of 
the City’s total portfolio. Under a provision sunsetting on January 1, 2026, no more than 40% 
of the portfolio may be invested in Commercial Paper if the Agency’s investment assets under 
management are greater than $100,000,000. Further, no more than 5 percent of the City’s 
total portfolio shall be invested in the commercial paper of any one issuer. 
G.
Eligible Banker’s Acceptances with a maturity not exceeding 180 days from the date of trade
settlement, rated at least “A-1” or the equivalent or better by an NRSRO, drawn on or
accepted by a commercial bank, whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, and whose senior
long-term debt is rated in a rating category of “A” or the equivalent or better by an NRSRO
at the time of purchase. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested
in banker’s acceptances of any one issuer, and the aggregate investment in banker’s
acceptances shall not exceed 40 percent of the City’s total portfolio.
H.
Repurchase Agreements with a final termination date not exceeding 90 days collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and/or government-sponsored enterprises
(described in sections VII.A and VII.C above). For the purpose of this section, the term
collateral shall mean purchased securities under the terms of the City’s approved Master
Repurchase Agreement. The purchased securities shall have a minimum market value
including accrued interest of 102 percent of the dollar value of the funds borrowed. All
collateral must be delivered to the City’s custodian bank by book entry, physical delivery, or
by a third- party custodial agreement. The market value of the collateral securities shall be
marked-to- the-market at least quarterly, and the value of the underlying collateral must be
brought back up to 102 percent no later than the next business day. Market value must be
calculated each time there is a substitution of collateral. No more than 10 percent of the City’s
total portfolio shall be invested in repurchase agreements with any one counterparty, and the
aggregate investment in repurchase agreements shall not exceed 10 percent of the City’s total
portfolio.
The City or its custodian shall have a perfected first security interest under the Uniform
Commercial Code in all securities subject to Repurchase Agreement.
The City may enter into Repurchase Agreements only with primary dealers of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. Approved Repurchase Agreement counterparties shall have a
short-term credit rating of at least “A-1”, or the equivalent or better, and a long-term credit
rating in the rating category of “A”, or the equivalent or better, by a NRSRO. Repurchase
agreement counterparties shall execute a City-approved Master Repurchase Agreement with
the City. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a copy of the City’s approved
Master Repurchase Agreement along with a list of broker/dealers who have executed this
agreement.
Reverse repurchase agreements will not be permitted.
I.
LOCAL AGENCY INVESTMENT FUND. The City may invest in the Local Agency
Investment Fund (LAIF) established by the State Treasurer (per Government Code Section
16429.1) for the benefit of local agencies up to the maximum amount permitted byLAIF..
J.
SAN MATEO COUNTY POOL. The City may invest in the San Mateo County Pool
established by the San Mateo County Treasurer for the benefit of local agencies (as
established in California Code Section 53684). No more than 30 percent of the market value
of the City’s total portfolio may be invested in this category.
14 of 35

--- page 15 ---
K.
CALIFORNIA ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The City may invest in the California
Asset Management Program (CAMP) a California Joint Powers Authority established to
provide California public agencies with professional investment services (California Code
Section 53601 (p)). No more than 20 percent of the market value of the City’s total portfolio
may be invested in this category.
L.
Shares of beneficial interest issued by a diversified management company that are money
market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. Sec. 80a-1 et seq.). Provided that the money market funds
are “no-load” (no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares); (2) have a
constant daily net asset value per share of $1.00; (3) have a rating of “AAA” or the equivalent by
at least two NRSROs or have retained an investment adviser registered or exempt from
registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission with not less than five years’
experience managing money market mutual funds with assets under management in excess of five
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000). No more than 10 percent of the City’s total portfolio
shall be invested in any one issuer and the aggregate investment in money market funds shall not
exceed 20 percent of the City’s total portfolio.
M.
Obligations of the State of California or any local agency within the state, including bonds
payable solely out of revenues from a revenue-producing property owned, controlled, or
operated by the state or any local agency or by a department, board, agency, or authority of
the state or any local agency.
Registered treasury notes or bonds of any of the other 49 states in addition to California,
including bonds payable solely out of the revenues from a revenue-producing property owned,
controlled, or operated by a state or by a department, board, agency, or authority of any of the
other 49 states, in addition to California.
Securities in this section must have a short-term rating of “A-1” or the equivalent or better by
an NRSRO or a long-term rating in the category of “A” or the equivalent or better by an
NRSRO. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one
municipal issuer, and the aggregate investment in municipal bonds shall not exceed 20 percent
of the City’s total portfolio. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years.
N.
Negotiable certificates of deposit or deposit notes issued by a nationally- or state-chartered
bank, a savings association or a federal association (as defined by Section 5102 of the
Financial Code), a state or federal credit union, or by a federally-licensed or by a state-
licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible negotiable certificates of deposit in amounts up to
the FDIC insured limit do not require any credit ratings. Amounts above the FDIC insured
limit must be issued by institutions which have long-term obligations rated in a rating category
of “A” or its equivalent or better by at least one NRSRO, or have short-term obligations rated
“A-1” or its equivalent, or higher by an NRSRO. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total
portfolio shall be invested in the negotiable certificates of deposit of any one issuer, and the
aggregate investment in negotiable certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30 percent of the
City’s total portfolio. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years.
O.
United States dollar denominated senior unsecured unsubordinated obligations issued or
unconditionally guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
International Finance Corporation, or Inter-American Development Bank, with a maximum
remaining maturity of five years or less, and eligible for purchase and sale within the United
States. Investments under this subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its
equivalent or better by an NRSRO and shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s moneys that
15 of 35

--- page 16 ---
may be invested pursuant to this section. No more than 10 percent of the portfolio may be 
invested in one single issuer. 
P.
Collateralized bank deposits that are the City’s deposits with financial institutions. Bank
deposits will be collateralized with pledged securities per California Government Code,
Section 53651. There are no limits on the dollar amount or percentage that the City may invest
in collateralized bank deposits.
The foregoing list of authorized securities and transactions shall be strictly interpreted. Any 
deviation from this list must be approved in advance by resolution of the City Council. 
NOTE 1: References throughout this document to “the City’s total portfolio” will be the market 
value of the portfolio at the time the specific security is purchased. 
VIII.
PROHIBITED INVESTMENT VEHICLES AND PRACTICES
State law notwithstanding, any investments not specifically described herein are prohibited,
including, but not limited to futures and options. In accordance with Government Code, Section
53601.6, investment in inverse floaters, range notes, or mortgage derived interest-only strips is
prohibited. Investment in any security that could result in a zero interest accrual if held to maturity
is prohibited. Under a provision sunsetting on January 1, 2026, securities backed by the U.S.
Government that could result in a zero- or negative-interest accrual if held to maturity are permitted.
Trading securities for the sole purpose of speculating on the future direction of interest rates is
prohibited. Purchasing or selling securities on margin is prohibited. The use of reverse repurchase
agreements, securities lending or any other form of borrowing or leverage is prohibited. The
purchase of foreign currency denominated securities is prohibited. Local governments that are not
Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIB) as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission are
prohibited from purchasing Private Placement Securities. The SEC defines a QIB as having at least
$100,000,000 in securities owned and invested.
IX.
INVESTMENT POOLS/MUTUAL FUNDS
The City shall conduct a thorough investigation of any pool or mutual fund prior to making an
investment, and on a continual basis thereafter. The Finance Director/Treasurer shall develop a
questionnaire which will answer the following general questions:
•
A description of eligible investment securities, and a written statement of investment policy
and objectives.
•
A description of interest calculations and how it is distributed, and how gains and losses are
treated.
•
A description of how the securities are safeguarded (including the settlement processes),
and how often the securities are priced and the program audited.
•
A description of who may invest in the program, how often, what size deposit and
withdrawal are allowed.
•
A schedule for receiving statements and portfolio listings.
•
Are reserves, retained earnings, etc. utilized by the pool/fund?
•
A fee schedule, and when and how is it assessed.
•
Is the pool/fund eligible for bond proceeds and/or will it accept such proceeds?
X.
SELECTION OF BROKER/DEALERS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of broker/dealers approved for investment
purposes, and it shall be the policy of the City to conduct transactions only with those authorized
firms. To be eligible, a firm must be licensed by the State of California as a broker/dealer as defined
in Section 25004 of the California Corporations Code, and:
1.
Be recognized as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
16 of 35

--- page 17 ---
2.
Report voluntarily to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
3.
Qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital
Rule).
Each authorized broker/dealer shall be required to submit and annually update a City approved 
Broker/Dealer Information form. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of the 
broker/dealers that have been approved by the City, along with each firm’s most recent 
Broker/Dealer Information Request form. 
If the City has not engaged the support services of an outside investment advisor while in the process 
of executing a particular transaction, the authorized broker/dealer(s) shall provide certification of 
having received and reviewed this Policy. For transactions initiated through an investment advisor, 
the investment advisor may use their own list of approved broker/dealers and financial institutions, 
which it will maintain and review periodically. 
The City may purchase commercial paper from direct issuers even though they are not on the 
approved broker/dealer list as long as they meet the criteria outlined in Item F of the Authorized 
Investments section of this Policy. 
XI.
COMPETITIVE TRANSACTIONS
Each investment transaction shall be competitively transacted with authorized broker/dealers. At
least three broker/dealers shall be contacted for each transaction, and their bid and offering prices
shall be recorded.
If the City is offered a security for which there is no other readily available competitive offering,
then the Finance Director/City Treasurer will document quotations for comparable or alternative
securities. When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive offerings will
be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those securities at the same original issue price.
XII.
SELECTION OF BANKS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of banks approved to provide depository
and other banking services for the City. To be eligible for authorization, a bank shall qualify as a
depository of public funds in the State of California as defined in California Government Code
Section 53630.5, shall be a member of the FDIC, and shall secure all deposits exceeding FDIC
insurance coverage in accordance with California Government Code Section 53652.
XIII.
SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall select a bank to provide safekeeping and custodial
services for the City, in accordance with the provisions of Section 53608 of the California
Government Code. A City-approved Safekeeping Agreement shall be executed with the custodian
bank prior to utilizing that bank’s safekeeping services. The custodian bank will be selected on the
basis of its ability to provide satisfactory safekeeping services and the competitive pricing of them.
The purchase and sale of securities and repurchase agreement transactions shall be settled on a
delivery-versus-payment basis. All securities shall be perfected in the name of the City. Sufficient
evidence to title shall be consistent with modern investment, banking, and commercial practices.
All investment securities will be delivered by either book entry or physical delivery and will be held
by the City’s custodian bank, its correspondent bank or its Depository Trust Company (DTC)
participant account.
XIV.
MAXIMUM MATURITY
To the extent possible, investments shall be matched with anticipated cash flow requirements and
known future liabilities.
17 of 35

--- page 18 ---
The City will not invest in securities maturing more than five (5) years from the date of trade 
settlement, unless the City Council has by resolution granted authority to make such an investment, 
either specifically or as a part of an investment program approved by the City Council no less than 
three months prior to the investment. 
18 of 35

--- page 19 ---
RISK MANAGEMENT AND DIVERSIFICATION 
Mitigating Credit Risk in the Portfolio 
Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all its value due to a real or 
perceived change in the ability of the issuer to repay its debt. The City will mitigate credit risk by 
adopting the following strategies: 
•
The diversification requirements included in the “Authorized Investments” section of this
policy are designed to mitigate credit risk in the portfolio.
•
No more than 5 percent of the total portfolio may be deposited with or invested in securities
issued by any single issuer unless otherwise specified in this policy.
•
The City may elect to sell a security prior to its maturity and record a capital gain or loss in
order to manage the quality, liquidity or yield of the portfolio in response to market
conditions or City’s risk preferences.
•
If the credit ratings of any security owned by the City are downgraded to a level below the
quality required by this investment policy, it will be the City’s policy to review the credit
situation and make a determination as to whether to sell or retain such securities in the
portfolio.
o
If a security is downgraded, the Finance Director/City Treasurer will use discretion
in determining whether to sell or hold the security based on its current maturity, the
economic outlook for the issuer, and other relevant factors.
o
If a decision is made to retain a downgraded security in the portfolio, its presence in
the portfolio will be monitored and reported monthly to the City Council.
Mitigating Market Risk in the Portfolio 
Market risk is the risk that the portfolio value will fluctuate due to changes in the general level of 
interest rates. The City recognizes that, over time, longer-term portfolios have the potential to 
achieve higher returns. On the other hand, longer-term portfolios have higher volatility of return. 
The City will mitigate market risk by providing adequate liquidity for short-term cash needs, and 
by making longer-term investments only with funds that are not needed for current cash flow 
purposes. 
The City further recognizes that certain types of securities, including variable rate securities, 
securities with principal paydowns prior to maturity, and securities with embedded options, will 
affect the market risk profile of the portfolio differently in different interest rate environments. The 
City, therefore, adopts the following strategies to control and mitigate its exposure to market risk: 
•
The City will maintain a minimum of six months of budgeted operating expenditures in
short term investments to provide sufficient liquidity for expected disbursements.
• 
• 
The maximum stated final maturity of individual securities in the portfolio will be five (5)
years, except as otherwise stated in this policy.
• 
• 
The duration of the portfolio will generally be approximately equal to the duration
(typically, plus or minus 20 percent) of a Market Benchmark, an index selected by the City
based on the City’s investment objectives, constraints, and risk tolerances.
19 of 35

--- page 20 ---
XV.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
The investment portfolio shall be designed to attain a market rate of return throughout budgetary
and economic cycles, taking into account prevailing market conditions, risk constraints for eligible
securities, and cash flow requirements. An appropriate benchmark or benchmarks will be
established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis. When
comparing the performance of the City’s portfolio, its rate of return will be computed net of all fees
and expenses.
XVI.
MONTHLY REPORTING
Monthly, the Finance Director/City Treasurer shall submit to the City Council a report of the
investment earnings and performance results of the City’s investment portfolio. The report shall
include the following information:
1.
Investment type, issuer, date of purchase and maturity, par value and dollar amount investedin
all securities, and investments and monies held by the City;
2.
A description of the funds, investments and programs;
3.
A market value as of the date of the report (or the most recent valuation as to assets not valued
monthly) and the source of the valuation;
4.
A statement of compliance with this Policy or an explanation for non-compliance; and
5.
A statement of the City’s ability to meet expenditure requirements for six months, and an
explanation of why money will not be available if that is the case.
6.
A statement of transactions made during the month.
XVII. INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION
This Investment Policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council. The Policy shall be reviewed
annually by the Investment Advisory Committee and any modifications made thereto must be approved
by the City Council.
20 of 35

--- page 21 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
21 of 35

--- page 22 ---
From:
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Support ESG
Date:
Thursday, March 2, 2023 3:37:23 PM
Honorable City Council,
It’s hard to understand why environmental, social and corporate governance factors
are not already a critical key factor in every investment.
This is the fastest and most effective approach to push the needle forward for the
desperate help the environment and middle and lower income classes need.
Shareholder gains at the expense of the environment and labor and other metrics of
humanity and decency has gone on way too long.
Please do what you can to ensure all of San Mateo investments are morally and
ethically compatible with progressive values.
Thank you.
Tom Lease
22 of 35

--- page 23 ---
CHANDLER ASSET MANAGEMENT, INC. | 800.317.4747 | www.chandlerasset.com
INVESTMENT REPORT
Period Ending January 31, 2023
City of San Mateo
23 of 35

--- page 24 ---
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) vs. Environmental, Social, Governance Investing (ESG) 
SRI and ESG are often confused as both consider the 
broader social and environmental implications of an 
investment.  
24 of 35

--- page 25 ---
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) vs. Environmental, Social, Governance Investing (ESG) 

SRI   -
VALUES ALIGNED INVESTING 
•
Primarily uses an exclusionary screening process to align portfolios with investors 
moral and ethical values.

ESG   - VALUE (PERFORMANCE) BASED INVESTING 
•
Primarily uses an inclusive evaluation process.
1.
The primary objective is to mitigate ESG risks and achieve higher returns.
2.
ESG rating systems are imperfect as many factors are based upon a subjective 
opinion.
3.
ESG research breaks down the three metrics of Environmental, Social and 
Governance. The research outcome is typically reflected in a score or rating.
25 of 35

--- page 26 ---
Environmental
Social Issues
Governance
Climate change & carbon 
emissions
Customer satisfaction
Board composition
Air & water pollution
Data protection & privacy
Audit committee structure
Biodiversity
Gender & diversity
Bribery & corruption
Deforestation
Employee engagement
Executive compensation
Energy efficiency
Community relations
Lobbying
Waste management
Human rights
Political contributions
Water scarcity
Labor standards
Whistleblower schemes
Sample ESG and SRI Considerations
26 of 35

--- page 27 ---

Exclusionary screening (SRI - oldest method)
•
Exclusionary screening refers to avoiding securities of companies or countries on the basis of 
traditional moral values (e.g., products or services involving alcohol, tobacco, firearms or 
gambling) and standards and norms (e.g., those pertaining to human rights and 
environmental protection).

ESG Integration and Positive (Inclusive) Screening
•
Incorporates ESG Data in conjunction with traditional financial/credit analysis with the goal 
of  mitigating ESG risks and increasing returns. Best-in-class selection refers to preferring 
companies with better or improving ESG performance relative to sector peers. Over the 
long-term, companies that score well on ESG issues are often more efficient with lower 
environmental costs—for example, a lower electricity or water bill.
Methods for Implementing SRI and ESG Strategies
27 of 35

--- page 28 ---
ESG Strategies
Impact investing
Impact investing refers to investing with the disclosed 
intention to generate and measure social and 
environmental benefits alongside a financial return. 
Project specific investing is a common characteristic of 
Impact Investing.
Thematic investing
Thematic investing refers to investing that is based on 
trends, such as social, industrial, and demographic 
trends. A number of investment themes are based on 
ESG issues, including clean tech, green real estate, 
sustainable forestry, agriculture, education, and health.
28 of 35

--- page 29 ---

ESG research requires a lot of work and presents a steep learning curve. It requires in-depth 
research into industries and companies to understand which factors are most relevant among the 
hundreds of KPIs.

Investors employ a variety of analytical approaches and typically use multiple data sources.

There is not a standardized approach to the calculation, analysis or outcome of ESG metrics.

Partial list of external ESG research providers to supplement in-house research staff:
•
Bloomberg
•
CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project)
•
Creditsights ESG
•
MSCI
•
Oekom
•
RepRisk
•
RiskMetrics
•
Standard and Poor’s
•
Sustainalytics
ESG Research and external Data Providers
29 of 35

--- page 30 ---
Integrating ESG into Fixed-Income Investing

In fixed-income 
investing, ESG issues are 
mostly about risk.  ESG 
issues in fixed-income 
considers how issues 
such as carbon 
emissions, labor relations 
and corruption might 
affect issuers’ 
creditworthiness

There’s need for more 
comprehensive analysis 
that includes the “extra” 
financial factors, such as 
ESG key performance 
indicators (KPIs)

Poor management of 
ESG factors can 
contribute to defaults, 
price volatility, credit 
rating downgrades, and 
widening credit default 
swap (CDS) spreads
30 of 35

--- page 31 ---

ESG investing is based on a combination of fundamental, relative-value analysis and ESG research.

The investment process begins with analyzing a company and then assessing creditworthiness 
and producing internal credit rating forecasts.
•
A credit analysis includes examining balance sheets, profit and loss statements, cash flows, 
and ratios.
•
Every bond is different, so it is important to assess instrument-specific risks by reading a 
bond’s prospectus; understanding its covenants, seniority, and structure; considering 
liquidity issues; and reviewing related documentation.

The ESG analysis is done along with the company analysis to develop an understanding of ESG 
shortcomings and if the company is able and willing to address the issues, improve weak ESG Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs), and resolve controversial issues.

For each issuer, ESG KPIs must be assessed for relevancy with regard to sector and industry. 
Investors should ask themselves how the relevant ESG KPIs will affect a company’s earnings and 
future operating cash flows.
ESG Fixed-Income Strategies and the Investment Process 
31 of 35

--- page 32 ---

Asking clarifying questions helps define what ESG investing means to the investor and where on 
the ESG spectrum is the best fit
•
What areas they want to have impact? 
•
What do they care about?
•
Is there agreement on the values priorities? 
•
How will they measure the results of ESG strategies?
•
Do they weigh values higher than returns?
•
Do they value returns, but want an ESG-friendly portfolio as well?
•
Do they want their investing to drive issues and change?
•
What are the agreed upon ESG filters for selecting approved issuers?
•
Are the filters exclusionary (negative) only or are they inclusionary (positive) or a   
combination of both?
SRI/ESG Investing - Getting Started
32 of 35

--- page 33 ---

City must have a clear decision-making process
•
City council
•
Subcommittee 
•
Staff

Directives must be “implementable”

Actions must be verifiable 
How to Decide What Gets Included/Excluded?
33 of 35

--- page 34 ---
• Strong-enough terms to provide guidance, but simple yet 
specific enough to provide enforceability
• Flexible enough to ensure compliance with fiduciary duty
ESG/SRI in 
Investment 
Policies: It’s all in 
the language…
• Investment policy language should address issues at high 
level
• Actual implementation should be handled at functional level
• Management directives
• Internal guidance documents
• Buy lists/exclusion lists
Actual 
Implementation
How Does this Impact the Investment Policy
34 of 35

--- page 35 ---

Defining and Complying with Safety, Liquidity and Yield/Return (SLY) Objectives
•
Governing Laws
•
Investment Policy
•
Risk tolerances
•
Market, credit and liquidity risks
•
Cash flow needs

Does SRI/ESG investing comply with the primary objectives of the investment program?

How will SRI/ESG considerations impact the primary objectives?
Complying with Fiduciary Duty
35 of 35