source: packet.pdf
sha256: b6abdbe954da628c631a9e63292d0bdbe6c3d666e15678937767b4a958c95e72
pages: 116
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
January 2, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: January 2, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 898 8310 2392      Passcode: 988541
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Council Member Amourence Lee will be participating remotely from the following location:
Fracc. 1 Lt 1, 40880 Barra de Potosi, Gro. Mexico
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
School Zone Speed Limit Signing and Striping Phases 2 and 3 – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Globe Engineering Development for the School Zone Speed Limit Signing and
Striping - Phases 2 and 3 Project in the amount of $154,785; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
$15,500; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
Police Engagement and Collaboration with San Mateo-Foster City School District – Memorandum of
Understanding
Approve a Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo-Foster City School District regarding engagement
and collaboration with the San Mateo Police Department; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.
1 of 116

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: This agreement approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
3.
Library Personal Computer Replacements – Purchase
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Purchasing Agreement
with Lenovo Inc. for the purchase of personal computers for the City’s libraries in an amount not-to-exceed
$93,074.86; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $13,961.23, for a total amount of $107,036.09; and
authorize the Director Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and
issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
CEQA: This purchase is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no
possibility the purchase of replacement personal computers may have a significant effect on the environment.
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
4.
Housing Element Update Consulting Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services for Housing Element
Update Services to extend the term of the agreement from December 31, 2023 to December 31, 2024, with no
change to the agreement compensation; and authorize the Interim Community Development Director to execute
the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
5.
Business License and Regulations, and Building Security Code Amendments – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Section 5.44.050(q) “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating
Requirements” to change the lighting measurement to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements; amend
Section 23.54.005 “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent,” to remove reference to an antiquated design
term, “Defensible Space Techniques;” and amend Section 23.54.020, “Building Security Code – City
Communications System – High Rise Buildings” to more clearly define building heights that trigger requirements
to maintain essential public safety communication networks.
CEQA: In accordance with CEQA adoption of this ordinance amendment is covered by the “common sense
exemption” in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the
environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance amendment will not have a significant effect
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
6.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles
Review and provide direction on the 2024 appointments to external agencies, organizations and liaison roles;
consider and approve a change to the continuity designation for Planning Commission and approve the final
appointments and liaison list.
2 of 116

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This appointment review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 116

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 23-8225
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
School Zone Speed Limit Signing and Striping Phases 2 and 3 – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Globe Engineering Development for the School Zone Speed Limit Signing and Striping - Phases 
2 and 3 Project in the amount of $154,785; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $15,500; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The School Zone Speed Limit Signing and Striping – Phases 2 and 3 Project is part of the larger School Zone Speed Limit 
Program (Program) aimed to reduced speed limits in the vicinity of schools throughout the City. Phases 2 and 3 are the 
final phases remaining to complete the Program. In December 2021, along with passing the resolution to implement the 
reduced speed limits, Council directed staff to implement the Program in phases to ensure appropriate outreach and 
education are completed for each phase. These remaining phases (2 and 3) involve implementing reduced speed limits 
adjacent to eight schools across 17 roadway segments, while the overall Program will install signage and striping for 23 
schools across a total of 38 roadway segments. 
The Engineer’s Estimate to construct Phases 2 and 3 is $177,573. The project was advertised on October 5, 2023, and a 
total of three (3) bids were received and opened on November 2, 2023. The bids received are listed below in order of 
increasing bid amount. 
Company Name
Total Bid Amount
Globe Engineering Development
$154,785
Chrisp Company
$292,320
JJ Construction and Design Inc.
Unresponsive bidder
 
After reviewing the bids, staff determined that Globe Engineering Development is the lowest responsive, responsible 
bidder. Therefore, staff recommends for the City Council to award the agreement to Globe Engineering Development. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Neighborhood Traffic Management (462226) project was identified to fund this project. The goal of the project is to 
address neighborhood traffic concerns, which include excessive vehicle speeds near schools. There is sufficient funding in 
this project account to cover the costs for these remaining phases of work.
4 of 116

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Att 2 – Location Map
STAFF CONTACT
Sang Hee Cho, Associate Engineer
scho@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7348
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
5 of 116

--- page 6 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 6/23
AGREEMENT WITH GLOBE ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT SIGN AND STRIPING PHASES 2 AND 3
CITY PROJECT NO. 462226
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and GLOBE ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT, a Corporation, with offices at 2002 Elijah Street 
Fairfield, CA 94533 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of 
____________________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT SIGNING AND STRIPING PHASES 2 AND 3 PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 462226
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of $154,785 in full payment 
for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the 
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to 
as the “contract documents”).
6 of 116

--- page 7 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 6/23
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
7 of 116

--- page 8 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 6/23
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty to 
indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
8 of 116

--- page 9 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 6/23
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
9 of 116

--- page 10 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 6/23
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
10 of 116

--- page 11 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 6/23
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and GLOBE 
ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day 
and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood
Interim Public Works Director
Date
Dawood Kavosh
Its Authorized Agent
Chief Executive Officer
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
11 of 116

--- page 12 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 6/23
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
5. Surety Bonds as described below.
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
8.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
12 of 116

--- page 13 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 6/23
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
13 of 116

--- page 14 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 6/23
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
14 of 116

--- page 15 ---
School Zone Speed

Limit Phases 2 and 3

Location Map

San Mateo High School
Stanbridge Academy

hame

oS
®
sce
2

<
a
¢

ye

Pp
ye

San Mateo
Park

St Matthew Catholic School

Hillsdale High School

School zone street segments

15 mph school zone
«me 25 mph school zone

Schools

Kehoe Ave

ox

Hayward
Park

&
%
Dy
°
“~
e

Bermuda Dr

“a
%

SMFCSD Vacancy
(Previously Shiloh United)

ac
California State Parks, Esri, MARE, Garmin, SafeGraph, GeoTechnolPgies,
Inc, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of Land Management, EPA, US
0 0.25 0.5 1 Miles Census Burea A
elle

SS ie NENTS 3}
Monte

15 of 116


--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5131
File ID: 23-8231
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Police Engagement and Collaboration with San Mateo-Foster City School District – Memorandum of Understanding 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo-Foster City School District regarding engagement and 
collaboration with the San Mateo Police Department; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Police Department and the San Mateo-Foster City School District have a long history of working together to 
create positive and safe campuses.  Of the District’s 21 schools, 16 are located in the City of San Mateo.  The City and the 
District desire to memorialize the principles and guidelines which govern this relationship. The proposed Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) defines terms and conditions governing police engagement and collaboration on the District’s 
elementary and middle school campuses in the City of San Mateo, including applicable policy, roles, duties and planned 
school-related events and response to emergencies.
Under the MOU, the District is responsible for disciplining students for matters related to school activities or attendance.  
A Police Officer may be called to respond to other matters including disposal of contraband such as illegal drugs, or when a 
student offense violates the law (arson, assault, drug sales).  In the event the offense is eligible for diversion, the San 
Mateo Police Department will offer services through its robust juvenile diversion program which includes providing 
counseling, mentorship, social worker case management and mental health support.  The District will be expected to call 
the police in the event of an emergency which requires a response which exceeds the scope of their resources or if there is 
a significant threat to human life or property.  
The term of the MOU is for one year, and may be extended for one-year terms by written agreement.  The District will 
conduct an annual student survey to maintain yearly data relative to feelings of safety on campus, and will develop a 
report summarizing the results, which will be shared with the Police Department.  The District and staff from the Police 
Department will meet annually to review the terms of the MOU. If it is determined that modifications are necessary, those 
could be made and subsequently incorporated into an amended MOU.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There no budget impact as a result of approving this MOU.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
16 of 116

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Memorandum of Understanding
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Kimber Joyce, Lieutenant
kjoyce@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7658
17 of 116

--- page 18 ---
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)
BETWEEN 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND THE
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT 
REGARDING 
POLICE ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION
This MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) is entered into on this — day of —- by 
and between the City of SAN MATEO (CITY) and the San Mateo-Foster City School District 
(DISTRICT).
RECITALS
WHEREAS, CITY and DISTRICT desire to enter into an AGREEMENT for the purpose of 
defining the terms and conditions governing the use of police engagement and collaboration of 
the SAN MATEO Police Department (SMPD) on DISTRICT elementary and middle school 
campuses. Student survey responses are an annual driver for the yearly updating of this MOU.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
SECTION I.                  
BACKGROUND
The DISTRICT desires to have access to, and engage in collaboration with, SMPD for the 
purpose of creating positive and safe campuses.  It is the intention of the parties that all SAN 
MATEO Police Officers who respond to DISTRICT property during their regular, on-duty hours 
of employment with their primary employer, the City of SAN MATEO, be governed by the 
principles and guidelines stated in this MOU. Both parties agree that the safety and well-being 
of children are the highest priorities. 
SECTION 2.
PURPOSE
The purpose of this MOU is to establish principles and guidelines governing the relationship 
between the DISTRICT and the CITY regarding the provision of SMPD law enforcement on 
DISTRICT elementary and middle school campuses. Both parties will do their part, with utmost 
18 of 116

--- page 19 ---
respect and fidelity, to adhere to the principles and guidelines contained in this MOU beginning 
on the date established above.
The parties agree that we aim to: 
1.
Maintain safe, peaceful, and secure learning environments and campuses for all 
students and members of the community;
2.
Preserve life and property in a manner which promotes community, trust, goodwill, and 
teamwork;
3.
Develop positive relationships with all students;
4.
Maintain positive and collaborative working relationships with all staff and school and 
district administrators in advancement of student safety during investigations and school 
engagements.
SECTION 3. 
POLICY, ROLES, AND DUTIES 
CITY’s Law Enforcement Roles and Duties include the following:
1.
The DISTRICT and the CITY OF SAN MATEO agree to annually review 
SMFCSD Board Policies. According to Board Resolution, the Board and the 
Superintendent implemented an inclusive, community-driven process for drafting new 
SMFCSD policies that prioritizes restorative practices, and reduces the likelihood that 
a student would be issued a citation, arrested, or referred to law enforcement while 
on school grounds. The parties agree to utilize restorative practices unless there are 
no other available alternatives for addressing imminent threats of serious harm: 
a.
BP 5131- Conduct
b.
BP 5144- Discipline
c.
AR 5144- Discipline
d.
BP 5145.11- Questioning and Apprehension
2.
Law enforcement services may be requested by the DISTRICT and provided with 
officers who are on duty with the CITY.
3.
The police officer is first and foremost a law enforcement officer of his or her 
primary employer, the CITY and SMPD. The police officer shall be responsible 
for carrying out all duties and responsibilities of an officer as prescribed by state 
19 of 116

--- page 20 ---
law and shall remain at all times subject to SMPD and the CITY.
4.
SMPD is encouraged to develop an annual calendar of activities, events, and 
services in conjunction with SMFCSD Student Services Department.
5.
Police Officers may be requested to assist with the disposal of contraband 
associated with infractions such as having illegal drugs on campus. 
6.
SMPD and SMFCSD will support the use of restorative approaches to student 
discipline and prioritize diversion strategies. Services such as counseling, 
mentorship, social worker support, and mental health support shall be offered as 
diversionary strategies.
7.
SMPD agrees to work in collaboration to follow the San Mateo County Big 5 
Protocol, Threat Assessment Protocol, and Sexual Abuse Investigations 
Protocol.
DISTRICT responsibilities include the following:
1.
The DISTRICT agrees to agendize, coordinate, and facilitate the annual review 
of SMFCSD Board Policies for engagement with the CITY of SAN MATEO and 
SMPD: 
a.
5131.2 Bullying
b.
5131.41 Use of Seclusion and Restraint
c.
5131.5 Vandalism
d.
5131.6 Alcohol and Other Drugs
e.
5131.7 Weapons and Dangerous Instruments
f.
5142 Safety
g.
5145.11 Questioning and Apprehension by Law Enforcement
h.
5145.12 Search and Seizure
2.
The DISTRICT will ensure that student disciplinary matters remain the 
responsibility of school staff and not SMPD. Enforcement of the code of student 
conduct is the responsibility of teachers, school staff, and school administrators. 
The DISTRICT will ensure that a trained counselor, social worker, therapist, 
mental health clinician, or TOSA assist with maintaining safe campuses.
20 of 116

--- page 21 ---
3.
The DISTRICT will involve police officers when student offenses (arson, assault, 
drug sales, etc) constitute violations of criminal law, or are criminal violations 
eligible for diversion. 
4.
The DISTRICT will maintain full, final, and plenary authority over curriculum and 
instruction in the DISTRICT, including the instruction of individual students in any 
educational realm, be it academic or socioemotional. 
5.
The DISTRICT, pursuant to the authority set forth in the California Education 
Code, has the duty to address student discipline, issue appropriate 
consequences, provide appropriate student support, and/or provide referrals to 
law enforcement/probation on criminal matters as required by the law.
6.
The DISTRICT agrees to enact annual student and staff survey instruments each 
March, facilitated by the DISTRICT’S Equity and Inclusion Department, for the 
purpose of maintaining yearly data relative to student feelings of safety, 
connectedness, and belonging. The purpose of this survey strategy is to ensure 
that this MOU improves student feelings related to these criteria. The district will 
prepare a report for the Board of Trustees summarizing survey results which will 
allow for approval of a new MOU or changes to this MOU each May. SMFCSD 
agrees to share survey results with the police department. 
7.
The DISTRICT will maintain records of on-site engagement events with SMPD 
and their frequency at each school.
8.
Pursuant to the California Education Code, the DISTRICT’s jurisdiction over 
student discipline extends to discipline related to a school activity or school 
attendance that occurs at any time, including, but not limited to, any of the 
following: 
a.
While on school grounds;
b.
While going to or coming from school; 
c.
During the lunch period whether on or off the campus; 
d.
and During or while going to or coming from a school sponsored activity. 
21 of 116

--- page 22 ---
9.
At the request of SMPD, as part of a criminal investigation, the DISTRICT will 
make available any information they have acquired through their separate and 
thorough investigation, including but not limited to events, dates, times, suspect 
names, victim names, and/or witness names. However, any information subject 
to legally protected privilege will not be released unless an exception applies or 
the privilege is waived by its holder.
10. At the request of SMPD, as part of a criminal investigation, the DISTRICT will 
make available any video footage they have recorded, including those in the 
DISTRICT’S video camera system.
11. SMFCSD agrees to work in collaboration to follow the San Mateo County Big 5 
Protocol, Threat Assessment Protocol, and Sexual Abuse Investigations 
Protocol.
The parties shall ensure that the respective individuals assigned to the school campuses and 
responsible for the implementation of this MOU are provided a copy of the MOU and are 
informed of the contents of this MOU and their duty to implement it. 
SECTION 4. 
PLANNED SCHOOL-RELATED EVENTS 
The following policies and procedures are agreed upon to facilitate coordination for planning 
and responding to planned school-related events. 
The DISTRICT and the CITY agree to plan school-related events. The DISTRICT strongly 
recommends that SMPD representatives be present in non-official uniform whenever possible. 
Events could including:
1. Lunchtime football, basketball, soccer games, or other school sports events, school 
dances, promotions or other school related events. 
2. SMPD  will share diversion programs with the DISTRICT’s Student Services 
Department. Parties agree to share information for all planned school-related events. 
3. Parties agree to share information and collaboration on community events such as 
Holiday Brunch; Holiday Giving; Holiday Gift Shop; National Night Out; Super Hero Day; 
22 of 116

--- page 23 ---
Dia de los Muertos. Parties agree that the intent of these events is to build relationships 
and not law enforcement action.
SECTION 5. 
RESPONSE TO EMERGENCIES 
1. In response to a non-violent criminal incident, the DISTRICT shall consult with SMPD to 
develop a contingency plan and response.
2. Unless the incident involves criminal activity or an emergency where police resources in 
addition to the SMPD Chief or designee are desirable, the DISTRICT shall make an initial 
decision regarding the need for a police response based upon knowledge of the incident, the 
DISTRICT’s policies and resources, and consultation with SMPD Chief or designee, if 
necessary. If the incident is outside the scope of the DISTRICT’s resources, or there is a 
significant threat to human life or property, or the SMPD is made aware of the incident and 
makes a determination the incident is critical in nature, the DISTRICT shall relinquish the overall 
decision-making process to SMPD, who shall then assume the role of the incident commander. 
3. SMPD and DISTRICT personnel agree to keep one another  informed of decisions and the 
status of emergencies or situations that arise on a school campus. 
4. Incidents that originate at a school site that extend into the community will be handled by 
SMPD.  
SECTION 6. 
TERM 
This MOU shall be in effect for one year from the date executed above. This MOU may 
thereafter be extended for one-year terms by written agreement of SMPD and the DISTRICT. 
DISTRICT and SMPD representatives shall meet and confer annually, or more frequently if 
deemed necessary, to review the terms of this MOU. If it is determined that modifications are 
necessary, such modifications shall be made and appropriately executed in writing by 
authorized representatives from DISTRICT and SMPD. On the DISTRICT side, the 
communication will go directly to the Superintendent and the Assistant Superintendent of 
Student Services.  
SECTION 7. 
TERMINATION 
23 of 116

--- page 24 ---
Either Party may terminate this MOU with or without cause on sixty days advance written notice. 
SECTION 8. 
UNDERSTANDING AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE PARTIES 
This MOU constitutes the entire understanding of the parties. The Provider’s signatures below 
signify both an understanding and acceptance of the MOU provisions and guidelines. 
WITNESS THE EXECUTION HEREOF on the day and year first hereinabove written. 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation 
_____________________________  
_____________________________
BAHAR ABDOLLAHI, 
ED BARBERINI,
Assistant City Attorney
Chief of Police 
“DISTRICT” SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT, a California School District 
______________________________ 
SHARA WATKINS, 
Board of Trustees 
President
   
24 of 116

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6611
File ID: 23-8248
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Library Personal Computer Replacements – Purchase 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Purchasing Agreement with 
Lenovo Inc. for the purchase of personal computers for the City’s libraries in an amount not-to-exceed $93,074.86; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $13,961.23, for a total amount of $107,036.09; and authorize the 
Director of Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders 
within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City’s personal computer (PC) replacement strategy is to replace PCs after five years of service to mitigate 
maintenance issues and support problems, and to keep equipment within industry standards. The PC replacement fund is 
based on this amortization schedule with approximately 60 PCs currently identified as due for replacement for the City’s 
libraries. 
 
On November 20, 2023, Council approved the previous cycle of PC replacements. A not-to-exceed purchase agreement 
with a preferred vendor was also approved, providing benefits over a fixed bid purchase for Lenovo brand PCs. This 
purchase agreement represents a continuation of these established PC replacement purchasing practices. 
 
Staff obtained the quotation for the proposed purchase through a national government purchasing cooperative known as 
the National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance (NCPA). NCPA contracts allow participants to pay less through competitively 
solicited, evaluated, and awarded contracts that leverage the cooperative buying power of local government agencies. 
During this process, a lead agency issued a Request for Proposals for the establishment of a Master Agreement, and 
vendors are selected through a competitive process. Lenovo Inc. (Lenovo) is a participating vendor under NCPA contract # 
01-146. A quotation from Lenovo is provided for reference as Attachment 3. The continued use of Lenovo products is 
recommended due to Lenovo’s customer support and service quality, efficient warranty and replacement policy, and 
because Lenovo products have proven to be of high quality, stable and reliable, with a low hardware failure rate. In 
addition to the Lenovo quote, staff recommends a 15 percent contingency reserve to account for changes in PC models 
during the replacement cycle or any unforeseen changes in departmental needs. 
 
Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any purchasing procedures approved by the City 
Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award of the contract that the procedures are in the best 
interest of the City. The NCPA procurement service offers competitively priced contracts for goods and services, avoiding 
costs normally associated with the development of highly technical bid specifications, while assuring that competitive 
prices were received. Based on the above, staff recommends approving the purchase of 60 PCs pursuant to the Master 
Purchasing Agreement with Lenovo for an amount not to exceed $93,074.86 and a contingency reserve of $13,961.23, for 
25 of 116

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a total amount of $107,036.09.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds have been accrued and are available through the Computer Replacement Fund for this purchase. The total amount 
of the purchase will be an amount not-to-exceed $107,036.09.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility the 
purchase of replacement personal computers may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Master Agreement
Att 3 - Lenovo Inc. pricing quote
STAFF CONTACT
Curtis Joe, Customer Service Manager
cjoe@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7075
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
26 of 116

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A PURCHASE ORDER WITH LENOVO INC. FOR 
THE PURCHASE OF REPLACEMENT PERSONAL COMPUTERS
($107,036.09)
WHEREAS, the City replaces personal computers on an ongoing basis once they have exceeded their 
operational lifespan; and
WHEREAS, the City has identified approximately 60 personal computers that have reached the end of 
their operational lifespan per the replacement schedule; and
WHEREAS, City staff determined Lenovo brand personal computers purchased from Lenovo Inc. best 
meets the City’s needs; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing procedures 
approved by the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award for the contract that 
the procedures are in the best interest of the City for the particular contract; and
WHEREAS, the City as a public sector agency may participate in the National Cooperative Purchasing 
Alliance (NCPA) which offers contracts that have been competitively bid and negotiated; and
WHEREAS, Lenovo Inc. is a participating vendor under the NCPA contract; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology has determined Lenovo Inc. brand personal 
computers best meet the City’s needs since Lenovo Inc. brand personal computers have proven to be of high 
quality, reliable, and with a low hardware failure rate.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Council action is exempt from CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility the purchase of personal replacement computers may have a significant effect on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
2.
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of approximately 60 personal 
computers from Lenovo Inc. through the National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance (NCPA) is in 
the best interest of the City because:
•
The NCPA procurement service offers competitively priced contracts for goods and services;
•
The NCPA procurement service avoids costs normally associated with the development of 
highly technical bid specifications, while assuring that competitive prices were received.
3.
The purchase order to Lenovo Inc. for approximately 60 personal computers in an amount not 
to exceed $93,074.86, and a 15% contingency reserve in the amount of $13,961.23, for a total 
amount of $107,036.09 is approved, in accordance with the terms of the NCPA Contract Number 
01-146.
27 of 116

--- page 28 ---
4.
The Director of the Department of Information Technology is authorized to execute the 
purchase order in substantially the same form presented on behalf of the City.
28 of 116

--- page 29 ---
Title Page 
 
 
 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. Response to 
the National Cooperative Purchasing 
Alliance c/o Region 14 Education Service 
Center 
 
RFP # 45-22: Technology Solutions, 
Products, and Services 
 
November 17, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
Steven Franco 
Account Executive 
432-269-9996 
sfranco@lenovo.com 
29 of 116

--- page 30 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  2 
Cover Letter 
 
Lenovo.com 
8001 Development Drive 
 
Morrisville, NC 27560 
 
 
 
 
November 17, 2022 
 
National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance  
c/o Region 14 Education Service Center 
P.O. Box 701273 
Houston, TX 77270 
 
 
Re: Lenovo (United States) Inc. Response to RFP # 45-22: Technology Solutions, Products, and 
Services 
 
Dear Selection Committee, 
 
Lenovo knows that smarter technology can help organizations transform how they operate, the services they 
deliver, and how they collaborate and interact with citizens and communities. Ultimately, it’s about connecting 
people, priorities, and technology in important ways. Lenovo’s broad product portfolio, deep expertise, and 
relentless focus on innovation makes us the ideal partner for this important work. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to offer what Lenovo believes is an exciting technology solution to meet 
National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance’s (NCPA’s) requirements. We are confident that our deep public 
sector expertise and dedication to our partnership with you will ensure a successful technology decision and 
contribute to improved agency outcomes. Our proposal outlines a few of our many commitments to the 
continued success of your organization.  
 
Unparalleled Technology Leadership 
As the world’s leading PC company, Lenovo enjoys a record market share of 24.8 percent, per Gartner’s 
Market Share Analysis (Q2 2022). Our leadership position is built on a solid, award-winning product portfolio 
that stretches from mobile endpoints to high-performance, hyperconverged data center productivity, and 
includes a broad selection of accessories to maximize IT dollars. We combine our breakthrough hardware 
innovation with a full ecosystem of service and solutions partners to give our customers streamlined answers 
for their technology challenges. 
 
Experienced Government Agency Partner 
Our commitment to the public sector runs deep. We have invested in dedicated federal, state, and local 
government account teams, and created a dedicated center of excellence for contracts and procurement. 
Lenovo delivers unprecedented reliability and unbeatable mobility to over 900 state and local agencies across 
America. Additionally, over 22 military and civilian federal agencies choose Lenovo to modernize their 
mission. Lenovo is a trusted provider to various federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Department of Energy. 
 
Unbeatable Product Quality, Durability, and Innovation 
Because workstyles are more demanding than ever, we offer the broadest portfolio of MIL-SPEC-tested 
products and subject our machines to even more stringent examinations internally. Lenovo is committed to 
continuously improving the quality and value of our products and solutions.  
 
30 of 116

--- page 31 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  3 
Secure from the Inside Out 
We share your commitment to end-to-end security, as evidenced in our TAA-compliant products and supply 
chain. Additionally, we incorporate NIST and TCG standards as well as TPM 2.0 and secure BIOS firmware 
for peace of mind. The result is trustworthy technology to drive the most critical agency functions. 
 
U.S. Investments  
In addition to the investments in our Morrisville, North Carolina headquarters, Lenovo maintains both its 
enterprise campus and its U.S. fulfillment center in North Carolina. This results in 6,800+ employees and an 
annual economic impact of $1 billion for North Carolina. Lenovo purchases $10 billion in goods and services 
from U.S. companies annually. 
 
Lenovo’s commitment to providing meaningful, end-to-end technology solutions has made us the world’s top 
technology partner in the public sector market. Should you have any questions or require additional 
information, please reach out to the Lenovo team at your convenience.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Darren Estridge 
Executive Director 
 
 
31 of 116

--- page 32 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  4 
Table of Contents 
Title Page ......................................................................................... 1 
Cover Letter ..................................................................................... 2 
Table of Contents ............................................................................ 4 
Tab 1 – Master Agreement/Signature Form ................................... 5 
Master Agreement ‒ General Terms and Conditions .................................. 5 
Process ...................................................................................................... 10 
Evaluation Criteria ..................................................................................... 13 
Signature Form .......................................................................................... 14 
Tab 2 – NCPA Administration Agreement .....................................15 
Acknowledgment of Contractor Requirements .......................................... 17 
Tab 3 – Vendor Questionnaire .......................................................18 
Tab 4 – Vendor Profile ....................................................................22 
Tab 5 – Products and Services/Scope ..........................................30 
Products .................................................................................................... 31 
Services ..................................................................................................... 33 
Financial Services Offerings ...................................................................... 35 
Tab 6 – References .........................................................................37 
Tab 7 – Pricing ................................................................................41 
Tab 8 – Value Added Products and Services ................................43 
Tab 9 – Required Documents ........................................................46 
Federal Required Signatures .................................................................... 48 
Antitrust Certification Statements Texas Government Code § 2155.005 . 49 
Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement ..................................50 
 
 
 
 
 
32 of 116

--- page 33 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  5 
Tab 1 – Master Agreement/Signature Form 
Master Agreement ‒ General Terms and Conditions 
Customer Support 
The vendor shall provide timely and accurate technical advice and sales support. The vendor shall 
respond to such requests within one (1) working day after receipt of the request. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Disclosures 
Respondent affirms that he/she has not given, offered to give, nor intends to give at any time hereafter 
any economic opportunity, future employment, gift, loan, gratuity, special discount, trip, favor or service to 
a public servant in connection with this contract. 
The respondent affirms that, to the best of his/her knowledge, the offer has been arrived at independently, 
and is submitted without collusion with anyone to obtain information or gain any favoritism that would in 
any way limit competition or give an unfair advantage over other vendors in the award of this contract. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Renewal of Contract 
Unless otherwise stated, all contracts are for a period of three (3) years with an option to renew for up to 
five (5) additional one-year terms or any combination of time equally not more than 5 years if agreed to by 
Region 14 ESC and the vendor.  
Lenovo concurs with the understanding that such renewals will be based upon the mutual agreement of 
the parties. 
 
Funding Out Clause 
Any/all contracts exceeding one (1) year shall include a standard “funding out” clause. A contract for the 
acquisition, including lease, of real or personal property is a commitment of the entity’s current revenue 
only, provided the contract contains either or both of the following provisions: 
Retains to the entity the continuing right to terminate the contract at the expiration of each budget period 
during the term of the contract and is conditioned on a best efforts attempt by the entity to obtain 
appropriate funds for payment of the contract. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Shipments (if applicable) 
The awarded vendor shall ship ordered products within seven (7) working days for goods available and 
within four (4) to six (6) weeks for specialty items after the receipt of the order unless modified. If a 
product cannot be shipped within that time, the awarded vendor shall notify the entity placing the order as 
to why the product has not shipped and shall provide an estimated shipping date. At this point the 
participating entity may cancel the order if estimated shipping time is not acceptable. 
Lenovo understands and will comply. 
 
Lenovo takes our commitments to customers very seriously and will establish and implement processes 
for NCPA to ensure that product delivery and installation timeframes are met. 
 
Our Lenovo Direct Fulfillment goal is to offer NCPA our best-of-breed products, aggressively priced, with 
a fulfillment model customized to your unique requirements. In the US, Lenovo should be able to ship 
standard topseller products within 7 business days, and standard and forecasted custom products within 
4 to 6 weeks from receipt by Lenovo of a valid purchase order. If the ship date extends beyond these time 
33 of 116

--- page 34 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  6 
frames, Lenovo will communicate with the customer the revised ship date as information becomes 
available. 
 
This order fulfillment objective does not apply to initial orders for custom models. When Lenovo creates a 
custom model based on unique requirements, these models are subject to a “First Off Test” (FOT) which 
is a process to ensure that the newly created custom model is technically valid, properly manufactured, 
and has a functional configuration.  
 
Standard shipping is assumed, and premium shipping is available upon request for an additional fee. 
Lenovo will be pleased to meet with NCPA and discuss solutions to meet your specific delivery 
requirements. 
 
Tax Exempt Status 
Since this is a national contract, knowing the tax laws in each state is the sole responsibility of the vendor. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Payments 
The entity using the contract will make payments directly to the awarded vendor or their affiliates 
(distributors/business partners/resellers) as long as written request and approval by NCPA is provided to 
the awarded vendor. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Adding Authorized Distributors/Dealers 
Awarded vendors may submit a list of distributors/partners/resellers to sell under their contract throughout 
the life of the contract. Vendor must receive written approval from NCPA before such 
distributors/partners/resellers considered authorized. 
Purchase orders and payment can only be made to awarded vendor or distributors/ business 
partners/resellers previously approved by NCPA. 
Pricing provided to members by added distributors or dealers must also be less than or equal to the 
pricing offered by the awarded contract holder. 
All distributors/partners/resellers are required to abide by the Terms and Conditions of the vendor's 
agreement with NCPA. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Pricing 
All pricing submitted shall include the administrative fee to be remitted to NCPA by the awarded vendor. It 
is the awarded vendor’s responsibility to keep all pricing up to date and on file with NCPA. 
All deliveries shall be freight prepaid, F.O.B. destination and shall be included in all pricing offered unless 
otherwise clearly stated in writing 
Lenovo concurs for hardware and software products. 
 
For Lenovo services, the pricing contained herein is exclusive of any travel and living expenses, other 
reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the services, and any applicable taxes. 
 
34 of 116

--- page 35 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  7 
Warranty 
Proposal should address the following warranty information: 
• Applicable warranty and/or guarantees of equipment and installations including any conditions and 
response time for repair and/or replacement of any components during the warranty period. 
• Availability of replacement parts 
• Life expectancy of equipment under normal use 
• Detailed information as to proposed return policy on all equipment 
Products: Vendor shall provide equipment, materials and products that are new unless otherwise 
specified, of good quality and free of defects 
Construction: Vendor shall perform services in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with 
industry standards for the service provided. 
Lenovo’s Limited Warranty 
Please note, as Lenovo proposes to utilize the Lenovo Customer Agreement as the basis for the terms 
and conditions governing Lenovo’s products and services, the issue of warranty is fully addressed within 
that Agreement. Installation services are not considered part of warranty service but may be obtained 
through a value-added service. 
 
Please refer to Attachment A, D, and E inside Lenovo’s Customer Agreement for applicable Warranty 
Service Terms.  
 
Please refer to Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement on page 50 for a copy of the Lenovo Customer 
Agreement. 
 
Warranty Parts Process for Lenovo 
Lenovo maintains service parts throughout the warranty/service period. Lenovo makes commercially 
reasonable efforts to maintain service parts for five years from product launch date.  
 
A key fundamental component of product warranty is our Parts Depots. Support for Lenovo Think and 
System x products is made available through our industry leading parts inventory management system. 
This service support system includes automated dispatch, updated service technologies, preventive 
maintenance activities, and a parts distribution system. 
 
Lenovo’s parts stocking and distribution strategy is for parts to be readily available for delivery to a 
customer’s location to meet the required levels of service for each machine type. Parts are stocked in 
Mechanicsburg, PA, for Think and System x products and in Grapevine, TX, for Idea products. Efforts are 
made to support these geographic areas at an availability level in excess of 80-85 percent of total 
requirements. 
 
Regardless of warranty status, Lenovo will cross ship new or equivalent-to-new parts the same day they 
are ordered, provided order is placed before 3 p.m. (ET). For orders received after that time, Lenovo will 
ship the part out to meet the service response objectives. In many cases, Lenovo does not require receipt 
of the failed part before sending out a new part. 
 
Support for third-party products and software is provided directly by the vendor of the product. The 
combination of an excellent parts inventory, service representative, and additional support structure for 
Lenovo-branded products will ensure that NCPA receives world-class service coverage. 
 
Life Expectancy 
Lenovo Think, notebook, desktop, servers, and workstation products as well System x server and storage 
products are highly durable and engineered for a four- to five-year lifecycle. 
 
35 of 116

--- page 36 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  8 
Returns 
Lenovo’s return policy for public sector customer is 30 days. When a return is needed due to dead-on-
arrival (DOA) devices, damaged product, incorrect quantity, or incorrect product delivered, the claim has 
to be submitted to the appropriate Lenovo inside sales or customer service representative. After analysis 
and internal approvals, Lenovo will manage the collection of the product from the customer site. Lenovo 
will then refund the customer for the amount paid for the product that is returned. 
  
Safety 
Vendors performing services shall comply with occupational safety and health rules and regulations. Also 
all vendors and subcontractors shall be held responsible for the safety of their employees and any 
conditions that may cause injury or damage to persons or property. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Permits 
Since this is a national contract, knowing the permit laws in each state is the sole responsibility of the 
vendor. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Indemnity 
The awarded vendor shall protect, indemnify, and hold harmless Region 14 ESC and its participants, 
administrators, employees and agents against all claims, damages, losses and expenses arising out of or 
resulting from the actions of the vendor, vendor employees or vendor subcontractors in the preparation of 
the solicitation and the later execution of the contract. 
Please note, Lenovo proposes to utilize the Lenovo Customer Agreement as the basis for the terms and 
conditions governing the purchase of Lenovo’s products and services by the Consortium. Lenovo's 
proposed patent and copyright protection and IP infringement protection is located in Section 16 of the 
Agreement. Please refer to Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement on page 50 for a copy of the 
Lenovo Customer Agreement. 
 
Franchise Tax 
The respondent hereby certifies that he/she is not currently delinquent in the payment of any franchise 
taxes.  
To the best of our knowledge and belief, Lenovo is not currently delinquent in the payment of any Texas 
franchise taxes. 
 
Supplemental Agreements 
The entity participating in this contract and awarded vendor may enter into a separate supplemental 
agreement to further define the level of service requirements over and above the minimum defined in this 
contract i.e. invoice requirements, ordering requirements, specialized delivery, etc. Any supplemental 
agreement developed as a result of this contract is exclusively between the participating entity and 
awarded vendor. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Certificates of Insurance 
Certificates of insurance shall be delivered to the Public Agency prior to commencement of work. The 
insurance company shall be licensed in the applicable state in which work is being conducted. The 
awarded vendor shall give the participating entity a minimum of ten (10) days notice prior to any 
36 of 116

--- page 37 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  9 
modifications or cancellation of policies. The awarded vendor shall require all subcontractors performing 
any work to maintain coverage as specified. 
Lenovo concurs with the clarification that notification shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the applicable policy provisions. 
 
Legal Obligations 
It is the Respondent’s responsibility to be aware of and comply with all local, state, and federal laws 
governing the sale of products/services identified in this RFP and any awarded contract and shall comply 
with all while fulfilling the RFP. Applicable laws and regulation must be followed even if not specifically 
identified herein. 
Lenovo concurs that it will comply with all local, state, and federal laws applicable to Lenovo as a provider 
of information technology products and services. 
 
Protest 
A protest of an award or proposed award must be filed in writing within ten (10) days from the date of the 
official award notification and must be received by 5:00 pm CST. Protests shall be filed with Region 14 
ESC and shall include the following: 
• Name, address and telephone number of protester 
• Original signature of protester or its representative 
• Identification of the solicitation by RFP number 
• Detailed statement of legal and factual grounds including copies of relevant documents and the form of 
relief requested 
Any protest review and action shall be considered final with no further formalities being considered. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Force Majeure 
If by reason of Force Majeure, either party hereto shall be rendered unable wholly or in part to carry out 
its obligations under this Agreement then such party shall give notice and full particulars of Force Majeure 
in writing to the other party within a reasonable time after occurrence of the event or cause relied upon, 
and the obligation of the party giving such notice, so far as it is affected by such Force Majeure, shall be 
suspended during the continuance of the inability then claimed, except as hereinafter provided, but for no 
longer period, and such party shall endeavor to remove or overcome such inability with all reasonable 
dispatch. The term Force Majeure as employed herein, shall mean acts of God, strikes, lockouts, or other 
industrial disturbances, act of public enemy, orders and regulation of any kind of government of the 
United States or any civil or military authority; insurrections; riots; epidemics; pandemic; landslides; 
lighting; earthquake; fires; hurricanes; storms; floods; washouts; droughts; arrests; restraint of 
government and people; civil disturbances; explosions, breakage or accidents to machinery, pipelines or 
canals, or other causes not reasonably within the control of the party claiming such inability. It is 
understood and agreed that the settlement of strikes and lockouts shall be entirely within the discretion of 
the party having the difficulty, and that the above requirement that any Force Majeure shall be remedied 
with all reasonable dispatch shall not require the settlement of strikes and lockouts by acceding to the 
demands of the opposing party or parties when such settlement is unfavorable in the judgment of the 
party having the difficulty 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Prevailing Wage 
It shall be the responsibility of the Vendor to comply, when applicable, with the prevailing wage legislation 
in effect in the jurisdiction of the purchaser. It shall further be the responsibility of the Vendor to monitor 
37 of 116

--- page 38 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  10 
the prevailing wage rates as established by the appropriate department of labor for any increase in rates 
during the term of this contract and adjust wage rates accordingly. 
Lenovo does not believe that any prevailing wage laws would be applicable to Lenovo’s provision of 
products and services under any contract resulting from this solicitation. 
 
Termination 
Either party may cancel this contract in whole or in part by providing written notice. The cancellation will 
take effect 30 business days after the other party receives the notice of cancellation. After the 30th 
business day all work will cease following completion of final purchase order. 
Lenovo is in general agreement with the termination rights provided for above, with the understanding 
that Lenovo would be reimbursed for any products and services Lenovo delivers through the date of 
termination, as well as any reimbursable expenses Lenovo incurs. Lenovo would also seek 
reimbursement of any applicable adjustment or termination charges and for expenses Lenovo incurs as a 
result of such termination (which Lenovo will take reasonable steps to mitigate), all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Lenovo Customer Agreement which can be found in Appendix A: Lenovo Customer 
Agreement on page 50. 
 
Open Records Policy 
Because Region 14 ESC is a governmental entity, responses submitted are subject to release as public 
information after contracts are executed. If a vendor believes that its response, or parts of its response, 
may be exempted from disclosure, the vendor must specify page-by-page and line-by-line the parts of the 
response, which it believes, are exempt. In addition, the respondent must specify which exception(s) are 
applicable and provide detailed reasons to substantiate the exception(s). 
The determination of whether information is confidential and not subject to disclosure is the duty of the 
Office of Attorney General (OAG). Region 14 ESC must provide the OAG sufficient information to render 
an opinion and therefore, vague and general claims to confidentiality by the respondent are not 
acceptable. Region 14 ESC must comply with the opinions of the OAG. Region14 ESC assumes no 
responsibility for asserting legal arguments on behalf of any vendor. Respondent are advised to consult 
with their legal counsel concerning disclosure issues resulting from this procurement process and to take 
precautions to safeguard trade secrets and other proprietary information. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Process 
Region 14 ESC will evaluate proposals in accordance with, and subject to, the relevant statutes, 
ordinances, rules, and regulations that govern its procurement practices. NCPA will assist Region 14 ESC 
in evaluating proposals. Award(s) will be made to the prospective vendor whose response is determined 
to be the most advantageous to Region 14 ESC, NCPA, and its participating agencies. To qualify for 
evaluation, response must have been submitted on time, and satisfy all mandatory requirements 
identified in this document. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Contract Administration 
The contract will be administered by Region 14 ESC. The National Program will be administered by 
NCPA on behalf of Region 14 ESC. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
38 of 116

--- page 39 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  11 
Contract Term 
The contract term will be for three (3) year starting from the date of the award. The contract may be 
renewed for up to five (5) additional one-year terms or any combination of time equally not more than 5 
years. 
It should be noted that maintenance/service agreements may be issued for up to (5) years under this 
contract even if the contract only lasts for the initial term of the contract. NCPA will monitor any 
maintenance agreements for the term of the agreement provided they are signed prior to the termination 
or expiration of this contract. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Contract Waiver 
Any waiver of any provision of this contract shall be in writing and shall be signed by the duly authorized 
agent of Region 14 ESC. The waiver by either party of any term or condition of this contract shall not be 
deemed to constitute waiver thereof nor a waiver of any further or additional right that such party may 
hold under this contract. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Price Increases 
Should it become necessary, price increase requests may be submitted at any point during the term of 
the contract by written amendment. Included with the request must be documentation and/or formal cost 
justification for these changes. Requests will be formally reviewed, and if justified, the amendment will be 
approved. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Products and Services Additions 
New Products and/or Services may be added to the resulting contract at any time during the term by 
written amendment, to the extent that those products and/or services are within the scope of this RFP. 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Competitive Range 
It may be necessary for Region 14 ESC to establish a competitive range. Responses not in the 
competitive range are unacceptable and do not receive further award consideration. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Deviations and Exceptions 
Deviations or exceptions stipulated in response may result in disqualification. It is the intent of Region 14 
ESC to award a vendor’s complete line of products and/or services, when possible. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Estimated Quantities 
While no minimum volume is guaranteed, the estimated (but not limited to) annual volume for Products 
and Services purchased under the proposed Master Agreement is $400 million dollars annually. This 
estimate is based on the anticipated volume of Region 14 ESC and current sales within the NCPA 
program. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Evaluation 
Region 14 ESC will review and evaluate all responses in accordance with, and subject to, the relevant 
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations that govern its procurement practices. NCPA will assist the 
39 of 116

--- page 40 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  12 
lead agency in evaluating proposals. Recommendations for contract awards will be based on multiple 
factors, each factor being assigned a point value based on its importance. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Formation of Contract 
A response to this solicitation is an offer to contract with Region 14 ESC based upon the terms, 
conditions, scope of work, and specifications contained in this request. A solicitation does not become a 
contract until it is accepted by Region 14 ESC. The prospective vendor must submit a signed Signature 
Form with the response thus, eliminating the need for a formal signing process. Contract award letter 
issued by Region 14 ESC is the counter-signature document establishing acceptance of the contract. 
Lenovo understands; however, Lenovo’s offer to contract with Region 14 ESC is based upon Lenovo’s 
response to the solicitation and Lenovo’s modifications, exceptions, and clarifications thereto. 
 
NCPA Administrative Agreement 
The vendor will be required to enter and execute the National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance 
Administration Agreement with NCPA upon award with Region 14 ESC. The agreement establishes the 
requirements of the vendor with respect to a nationwide contract effort. 
Please note, as Lenovo proposes to utilize the Lenovo Customer Agreement as the basis for the terms 
and conditions governing Lenovo’s products and services, some of the items within the NCPA 
Administration Agreement are fully addressed within that Agreement. 
 
Lenovo proposes that Region 14 ESC, NCPA, nor Lenovo shall be obligated in any manner with respect 
to the products and services proposed under this Solicitation until such time as a written contract 
reflecting mutually agreed upon terms and conditions is executed. 
 
Clarifications/Discussions 
Region 14 ESC may request additional information or clarification from any of the respondents after 
review of the proposals received for the sole purpose of elimination minor irregularities, informalities, or 
apparent clerical mistakes in the proposal. Clarification does not give respondent an opportunity to revise 
or modify its proposal, except to the extent that correction of apparent clerical mistakes results in a 
revision. After the initial receipt of proposals, Region 14 ESC reserves the right to conduct discussions 
with those respondent’s whose proposals are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected 
for award. Discussions occur when oral or written communications between Region 14 ESC and 
respondent’s are conducted for the purpose clarifications involving information essential for determining 
the acceptability of a proposal or that provides respondent an opportunity to revise or modify its proposal. 
Region 14 ESC will not assist respondent bring its proposal up to the level of other proposals through 
discussions. Region 14 ESC will not indicate to respondent a cost or price that it must meet to neither 
obtain further consideration nor will it provide any information about other respondents’ proposals or 
prices. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Multiple Awards 
Multiple Contracts may be awarded as a result of the solicitation. Multiple Awards will ensure that any 
ensuing contracts fulfill current and future requirements of the diverse and large number of participating 
public agencies. 
Lenovo understands. 
 
Past Performance 
Past performance is relevant information regarding a vendor’s actions under previously awarded 
contracts; including the administrative aspects of performance; the vendor’s history of reasonable and 
40 of 116

--- page 41 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  13 
cooperative behavior and commitment to customer satisfaction; and generally, the vendor’s businesslike 
concern for the interests of the customer. 
Lenovo understands.  
 
Evaluation Criteria 
Pricing (40 points) 
Electronic Price Lists 
• Products, Services, Warranties, etc. price list 
• Prices listed will be used to establish both the extent of a vendor’s product lines, services, warranties, 
etc. available from a particular bidder and the pricing per item. 
 
Ability to Provide and Perform the Required Services for the Contract (25 points) 
• Product Delivery within participating entities specified parameters 
• Number of line items delivered complete within the normal delivery time as a percentage of line items 
ordered. 
• Vendor’s ability to perform towards above requirements and desired specifications. 
• Past Cooperative Program Performance 
• Quantity of line items available that are commonly purchased by the entity. 
• Quality of line items available compared to normal participating entity standards. 
 
References and Experience (20 points) 
• A minimum of ten (10) customer references for product and/or services of similar scope dating within 
past 3 years 
• Respondent Reputation in marketplace 
• Past Experience working with public sector. 
• Exhibited understanding of cooperative purchasing 
 
Value Added Products/Services Description, (8 points) 
• Additional Products/Services related to the scope of RFP 
• Marketing and Training 
• Minority and Women Business Enterprise (MWBE) and (HUB) Participation 
• Customer Service 
 
Technology for Supporting the Program (7 points) 
• Electronic on-line catalog, order entry use by and suitability for the entity’s needs 
• Quality of vendor’s on-line resources for NCPA members. 
• Specifications and features offered by respondent’s products and/or services 
 
Lenovo understands NCPA’s evaluation criteria. 
 
 
41 of 116

--- page 42 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  14 
Signature Form 
The undersigned hereby proposes and agrees to furnish goods and/or services in strict compliance with 
the terms, specifications and conditions at the prices proposed within response unless noted as clarified 
in writing in Lenovo’s response. The undersigned further certifies that he/she is an officer of the company 
and has authority to negotiate and bind the company named below and has not prepared this bid in 
collusion with any other Respondent and that the contents of this proposal as to prices, terms or 
conditions of said bid have not been communicated by the undersigned nor by any employee or agent to 
any person engaged in this type of business prior to the official opening of this proposal. 
 
Prices are guaranteed: 120 days 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc._____ 
Company Name 
 
8001 Development Drive _______ 
Address 
 
Morrisville, NC 27560__________ 
City State Zip 
 
855-253-6686________________ 
n/a_________________________ 
Telephone Number  
 
 
Fax Number 
 
destridge@lenovo.com _________________________________________ 
Email Address 
 
Darren Estridge _____________ 
Executive Director______________ 
Printed Name   
 
 
Position 
 
_____________________________ 
Authorized Signature 
42 of 116

--- page 43 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  15 
Tab 2 – NCPA Administration Agreement 
Lenovo Response: 
Please note, as Lenovo proposes to utilize the Lenovo Customer Agreement as the basis for the terms 
and conditions governing Lenovo’s products and services, some of the items within the NCPA 
Administration Agreement are fully addressed within that Agreement. 
 
Lenovo proposes that Region 14 ESC, NCPA, nor Lenovo shall be obligated in any manner with respect 
to the products and services proposed under this Solicitation until such time as a written contract 
reflecting mutually agreed upon terms and conditions is executed. 
 
Please refer to Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement on page 50 for a copy of the Lenovo Customer 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
This Administration Agreement is made as of _________________________________, by and 
between National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance (“NCPA”) and 
_________________________________ (“Vendor”). 
 
Recitals 
 
WHEREAS, Region 14 ESC has entered into a certain Master Agreement dated 
_______________________, referenced as Contract Number _______________________, by and 
between Region 14 ESC and Vendor, as may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms 
thereof (the “Master Agreement”), for the purchase of Technology Solutions, Products and Services; 
 
WHEREAS, said Master Agreement provides that any state, city, special district, local 
government, school district, private K-12 school, technical or vocational school, higher education 
institution, other government agency or nonprofit organization (hereinafter referred to as “public agency” 
or collectively, “public agencies”) may purchase products and services at the prices indicated in the 
Master Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS, NCPA has the administrative and legal capacity to administer purchases under the 
Master Agreement to public agencies; 
 
WHEREAS, NCPA serves as the administrative agent for Region 14 ESC in connection with 
other master agreements offered by NCPA 
 
WHEREAS, Region 14 ESC desires NCPA to proceed with administration of the Master 
Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS, NCPA and Vendor desire to enter into this Agreement to make available the Master 
Agreement to public agencies on a national basis; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the payments to be made hereunder and the mutual 
covenants contained in this Agreement, NCPA and Vendor hereby agree as follows: 
 
General Terms and Conditions 
• 
The Master Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and incorporated herein by reference as 
though fully set forth herein, and the terms and conditions contained therein shall apply to this 
December 1, 2022
December 1, 2022
Lenovo (United States) Inc
43 of 116

--- page 44 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  16 
Administration Agreement except as expressly changed or modified by this Administration 
Agreement. 
• 
NCPA shall be afforded all of the rights, privileges and indemnifications afforded to Region 14 
ESC under the Master Agreement, and such rights, privileges and indemnifications shall accrue 
and apply with equal effect to NCPA under this Administration Agreement including, but not 
limited to, Contractor’s obligation to provide appropriate insurance and certain indemnifications to 
Region 14 ESC. 
• 
Contractor shall perform all duties, responsibilities and obligations required under the Master 
Agreement in the time and manner specified by the Master Agreement. 
• 
NCPA shall perform all of its duties, responsibilities, and obligations as administrator of 
purchases under the Master Agreement as set forth herein, and Contractor acknowledges that 
NCPA shall act in the capacity of administrator of purchases under the Master Agreement. 
• 
With respect to any purchases made by Region 14 ESC or any Participating Agency pursuant to 
the Master Agreement, NCPA (a) shall not be construed as a dealer, remarketer, representative, 
partner, or agent of any type of Contractor, Region 14 ESC, or such Participating Agency, (b) 
shall not be obligated, liable or responsible (i) for any orders made by Region 14 ESC, any 
Participating Agency or any employee of Region 14 ESC or Participating Agency under the 
Master Agreement, or (ii) for any payments required to be made with respect to such order, and 
(c) shall not be obligated, liable or responsible for any failure by the Participating Agency to (i) 
comply with procedures or requirements of applicable law, or (ii) obtain the due authorization and 
approval necessary to purchase under the Master Agreement. NCPA makes no representations 
or guaranties with respect to any minimum purchases required to be made by Region 14 ESC, 
any Participating Agency, or any employee of Region 14 ESC or Participating Agency under this 
Administration Agreement or the Master Agreement. 
• 
With respect to any supplemental agreement entered into between a Participating Agency and 
Contractor pursuant to the Master Agreement, NCPA, its agents, members and employees shall 
not be made party to any claim for breach of such agreement. 
• 
This Administration Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements, either oral or in writing, 
between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and no other agreement, 
statement, or promise relating to the subject matter of this Administrative Agreement which is not 
contained herein shall be valid or binding. 
• 
Contractor agrees to allow NCPA to use their name and logo within website, marketing materials 
and advertisement. Any use of NCPA name and logo or any form of publicity regarding this 
Administration Agreement or the Master Agreement by Contractor must have prior approval from 
NCPA. 
• 
If any action at law or in equity is brought to enforce or interpret the provisions of this 
Administration Agreement or to recover any administrative fee and accrued interest, the 
prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in addition to any other 
relief to which such party may be entitled. 
• 
Neither this Administration Agreement nor any rights or obligations hereunder shall be assignable 
by Contractor without prior written consent of NCPA, provided, however, that the Contractor may, 
without such written consent, assign this Administration Agreement and its rights and delegate its 
obligations hereunder in connection with the transfer or sale of all or substantially all of its assets 
or business related to this Administration Agreement, or in the event of its merger, consolidation, 
change in control or similar transaction. Any permitted assignee shall assume all assigned 
obligations of its assignor under this Administration Agreement. 
• 
This Administration Agreement and NCPA’s rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned at 
NCPA’s sole discretion, to an existing or newly established legal entity that has the authority and 
capacity to perform NCPA’s obligations hereunder. 
 
Term of Agreement 
This Agreement shall be in effect so long as the Master Agreement remains in effect, provided, 
however, that the obligation to pay all amounts owed by Vendor to NCPA through the 
44 of 116

--- page 45 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  17 
termination of this Agreement and all indemnifications afforded by Vendor to NCPA shall survive 
the term of this Agreement. 
Fees and Reporting 
The awarded vendor shall electronically provide NCPA with a detailed quarterly report showing the dollar 
volume of all sales under the contract for the previous quarter. Reports are due on the fifteenth (15th) day 
after the close of the previous quarter. It is the responsibility of the awarded vendor to collect and compile 
all sales under the contract from participating members and submit one (1) report. The report shall 
include at least the following information as listed in the example below: 
Entity Name 
Zip Code 
State 
PO or Job # 
Sale Amount 
Total ____________ 
Each quarter NCPA will invoice the vendor based on the total of sale amount(s) reported. From the 
invoice the vendor shall pay to NCPA an administrative fee based upon the tiered fee schedule below. 
Vendor’s annual sales shall be measured on a calendar year basis. Deadline for term of payment will be 
included in the invoice NCPA provides. 
Annual Sales Through Contract 
Administrative Fee 
0 - $30,000,000 
2% 
$30,000,001 - $50,000,000 
1.5% 
$50,000,001+ 
1% 
Supplier shall maintain an accounting of all purchases made by Public Agencies under the Master 
Agreement. NCPA and Region 14 ESC reserve the right to audit the accounting for a period of four (4) 
years from the date NCPA receives the accounting. In the event of such an audit, the requested materials 
shall be provided at the location designated by Region 14 ESC or NCPA. In the event such audit reveals 
an under reporting of Contract Sales and a resulting underpayment of administrative fees, Vendor shall 
promptly pay NCPA the amount of such underpayment, together with interest on such amount and shall 
be obligated to reimburse NCPA’s costs and expenses for such audit. 
Acknowledgment of Contractor Requirements 
National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance 
Organization 
Vendor Name 
Name 
Name 
Title 
Title 
Address 
Address 
Address 
Address 
Signature 
Signature 
Date 
Date 
Lenovo (United States) Inc.
Darren Estridge
Executive Director Lenovo Government
8001 Development Drive
Morrisville, NC 27560
12/5/2022
Matthew Mackel
Director, Business Development
PO Box 701273
Houston, TX 77270
December 1, 2022
45 of 116

--- page 46 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  18 
Tab 3 – Vendor Questionnaire 
Please provide responses to the following questions that address your company’s operations, 
organization, structure, and processes for providing products and services. 
 
Locations Covered 
• Bidder must indicate any and all locations where products and services can be offered. 
• Please indicate the price co-efficient for each location if it varies. 
 
 All 50 States & District of Columbia 
(Selecting this box is equal to checking all boxes below) 
 Alabama  
 Illinois 
 Montana 
 Rhode Island 
 Alaska  
 Indiana 
 Nebraska 
 South Carolina 
 Arizona  
 Iowa 
 Nevada 
 South Dakota 
 Arkansas  
 Kansas 
 New Hampshire 
 Tennessee 
 California  
 Massachusetts 
 New Jersey 
 Texas 
 Colorado  
 Michigan 
 New Mexico 
 Utah 
 Connecticut  
 Minnesota 
 New York 
 Vermont 
 Delaware  
 Mississippi 
 North Carolina 
 Virginia 
 D.C.  
 Missouri 
 North Dakota 
 Washington 
 Florida  
 Kentucky 
 Ohio 
 West Virginia 
 Georgia  
 Louisiana 
 Oklahoma 
 Wisconsin 
 Hawaii  
 Maine 
 Oregon 
 Wyoming 
 Idaho  
 Maryland 
 Pennsylvania 
 
 
 
 All U.S. Territories and Outlying Areas 
(Selecting this box is equal to checking all boxes below) 
 American Samoa  
 Northern Marina Island 
 Federated States of Micrones 
 Puerto Rico 
 Guam  
 U.S. Virgin Islands 
 Midway Islands 
 
 
 
 All Canada Provinces and Territories 
(Selecting this box is equal to checking all boxes below) 
 Alberta  
 Prince Edward Island 
 British Columbia  
 Quebec 
 Manitoba  
 Saskatchewan 
 New Brunswick  
 Northwest Territories 
 Newfoundland and Labrador  
 Nunavut 
 Nova Scotia 
 Yukon 
 Ontario 
 
 
If awarded a Master Agreement, will your company extend the terms offered in your Proposal to public 
agencies in Canada? If no or maybe, please explain. 
 Yes   
 Maybe  
 No 
If an opportunity arises, Lenovo could possibly assist. However, currency requirements and trade 
agreements may impact how we pursue an opportunity.  
46 of 116

--- page 47 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  19 
If awarded a Master Agreement, will your company extend the terms offered in your Proposal to private 
sector customers? 
 Yes   
 Maybe  
 No 
 
Minority and Women Business Enterprise (MWBE) and (HUB) Participation 
It is the policy of some entities participating in NCPA to involve minority and women business enterprises 
(MWBE) and historically underutilized businesses (HUB) in the purchase of goods and services. 
Respondents shall indicate below whether or not they are an M/WBE or HUB certified. 
 Minority/Women Business Enterprise Respondent Certifies that this firm a Minority / Women Business 
Enterprise 
 Historically Underutilized Business Respondent Certifies that this firm is a Historically Underutilized 
Business 
 
Lenovo Response:  
Neither category above applies to Lenovo. 
 
Small Business, MWBE and HUB Growth 
If Proposer is a Large, National or Multinational Organization/Corporation, what programs are in place 
that partners or supports the growth of small and MWEB and HUB business? If yes, please describe. 
 N/A, we are a recognized small, MWEB or HUB organization 
 No, we do not have any programs in place. 
 Yes, we have programs in place. 
 
Residency 
Responding Company’s principal place of business is in the city of Morrisville, State of North Carolina. 
 
Felony Conviction Notice 
Please Check Applicable Box (If the 3rd box is checked, a detailed explanation of the names and 
convictions must be attached): 
 A publicly held corporation; therefore, this reporting requirement is not applicable. 
 Is not owned or operated by anyone who has been convicted of a felony. 
 Is owned or operated by the following individual(s) who has/have been convicted of a felony 
 
Distribution Channel 
Which best describes your company’s position in the distribution channel: 
Manufacturer Direct   
 Certified education/government reseller 
 Authorized Distributor  
 Manufacturer marketing through reseller 
 Value-added reseller   
 Other: ______________________________________ 
 
Processing Contact Information 
Contact Person  
Steven Franco 
Title  
 
 
Account Executive 
Company  
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. 
Address  
 
8001 Development Drive 
City/State/Zip   
Morrisville, NC 27560 
Phone   
 
432-269-9996 
Email   
 
sfranco@lenovo.com 
 
47 of 116

--- page 48 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  20 
Pricing Information 
In addition to the current typical unit pricing furnished herein, the Vendor agrees to offer all future product 
introductions at prices that are proportionate to Contract Pricing. If answer is no, attach a statement 
detailing how pricing for NCPA participants would be calculated for future product introductions. 
 Yes   
 No  
 
Pricing submitted includes the required NCPA administrative fee. The NCPA fee is calculated based on 
the invoice price to the customer. 
 Yes   
 No  
 
48 of 116

--- page 49 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  21 
49 of 116

--- page 50 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  22 
Tab 4 – Vendor Profile 
Please provide the following information about your company: 
Company’s official registered name. 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. 
 
Brief history of your company, including the year it was established. 
Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is a US$70 billion revenue global technology powerhouse, ranked 
#172 in the Fortune Global 500, employing 75,000 people around the world, and serving customers every 
day in 180 markets. Focused on a bold vision to deliver smarter technology for all, Lenovo has built on 
our success as the world’s leading PC player by expanding into new growth areas of infrastructure, 
mobile, solutions, and services. This transformation together with Lenovo’s world-changing innovation is 
building a more inclusive, trustworthy, and sustainable digital society for everyone, everywhere.  
 
While the Lenovo brand came into existence in 2004, the company has a much longer history. From our 
founding in 1984 through our acquisition of IBM’s award-winning Think® lines of PCs and laptops in 2005 
and the IBM System X in 2014 to our partnerships with more than 900 US state and local agencies today, 
our focus has yielded one of the industry’s most diverse cultures — serving more than 1 billion customers 
around the world.  
 
 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. is the U.S.-based entity within the global Lenovo corporate structure that 
offers intelligent devices for government, education, business, and consumer customers. Lenovo has 
become one of the world’s largest manufacturers offering a wide portfolio of connected products, 
including PCs (ThinkPad, Yoga, Lenovo Legion), tablets, workstations, augmented and virtual reality 
(AR/VR) devices, and smart home/office solutions. Lenovo (United States) Inc. headquarters are in 
Morrisville, NC, along with one of our key global research centers.  
 
To find out more, visit www.lenovo.com and read about the latest news via our StoryHub. 
 
Company’s Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) number. 
Lenovo’s D&B number is 52-2449153. 
50 of 116

--- page 51 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  23 
Company’s organizational chart of those individuals that would be involved in the contract. 
 
 
Corporate office location. 
• List the number of sales and services offices for states being bid in solicitation. 
• List the names of key contacts at each with title, address, phone and e-mail address. 
Lenovo team members for the NCPA contract are based out of our US headquarters or in a home office, 
which is not listed due to privacy reasons. Telephone and email contact information for key team 
members are listed below. 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. Headquarters 
8001 Development Drive 
Morrisville, NC 27560 
(855) 253-6686 
www.lenovo.com/us/en 
 
Key Lenovo Contacts 
Contact Information 
Lance Couch, Contract Manager 
+1 (281) 712-2155 
lcouch@lenovo.com  
Melissa Autrey Freeman, Senior Contract Analyst 
+1 (919) 294-0609 
mautrey@lenovo.com  
Steven Franco, Account Executive 
+1 (432) 269-9996 
sfranco@lenovo.com  
Christy D’Onofrio, Inside Sales Representative 
+1 (919) 874-3537 
cdonofrio@lenovo.com  
Chuck Boorman, Director Business Development 
+1 (512) 657-5220 
cboorman@lenovo.com  
 
Define your standard terms of payment. 
Lenovo’s standard payment terms and net 30. 
 
Who is your competition in the marketplace? 
Lenovo has a large product portfolio and competition varies by product line. However, our largest 
competitors include Dell, HP, Samsung, Microsoft, and Apple. 
 
51 of 116

--- page 52 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  24 
 
What differentiates your company from competitors? 
Focused on a bold vision to deliver smarter technology for all, Lenovo has built on our success as the 
world’s leading PC manufacturer by expanding into new growth areas of infrastructure, mobile, solutions, 
and services. Working with our customers, we strive to build a more inclusive, trustworthy, and 
sustainable digital society for everyone, everywhere. 
 
History of Innovation 
Lenovo’s commitment to innovation differentiates our products. By designing, engineering, and building 
the world’s most complete portfolio of smart devices and infrastructure, we are leading an Intelligent 
Transformation – the idea of people improving their lives through the use of transformative technology – 
to create better experiences and opportunities for millions of customers around the world. Since our 
inception, Lenovo has won hundreds of technology and design awards for our innovative products – 
including more than 33,000 active patents globally – and introduced many industry firsts, including the 
world’s first foldable PC, first 2-in-1 convertible laptop, and first 5G smartphone. Also, we have 
committed to doubling our R&D investment by fiscal year 23/24 from the fiscal year 20/21 level and 
are adding 12,000 R&D professionals globally. 
 
Commitment to Sustainability and Social Responsibility 
After exceeding our 2020 emissions reduction goals a year ahead of schedule, Lenovo has committed 
to a vision to achieve net-Zero by 2050 and is working with the Science Based Target Initiative to 
establish goals that support this vision. Lenovo has reported on sustainability topics since 2008, including 
outlining our work and goals around climate change mitigation, the circular economy, and sustainable 
materials. In addition to the net-zero vision, Lenovo has committed to positively impacting 15 million 
lives through philanthropic programs and partnerships by 2025.  
 
Our philanthropic arm, the Lenovo Foundation, provides smarter technology for all by empowering 
underrepresented communities with access to technology and STEM education. We also continue to 
promote diversity, equity, and inclusion. Lenovo was listed in Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index again in 
52 of 116

--- page 53 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  25 
2022. We are one of the leaders in our industry with over 36% female representation in our workforce. 
Also, Lenovo won 24 best employer and best workplace awards last year, including the World’s Most 
Admired Companies by Fortune magazine. 
 
Trusted, Award-winning Global Supply Chain 
Lenovo has once again been named in the Gartner Global Supply Chain Top 25 listing for 2022, rising 
seven places to rank #9. This recognition highlights Lenovo’s leadership as a purpose-driven organization 
as well as the operational excellence of our global supply chain. Lenovo’s supply chain has always 
been a core strength, from managing logistics and our relationships with component suppliers and 
partners to our unique global hybrid manufacturing footprint of 35+ factories around the world that 
together see five devices shipped every second to customers. Lenovo’s strong supply chain has been a 
key factor in our ability to stay flexible and resilient in the face of industry challenges in the last few years 
and to respond customers’ needs more effectively. 
 
Describe how your company will market this contract if awarded. 
Lenovo has held a contract with NCPA since 2015 and will continue to create awareness of the contract 
and its contents among potential users of the contract. Our marketing plan will include: 
• 
Email announcement of contract award to current Lenovo North American public sector 
customers and potential customers 
• 
Social media announcements to promote the Lenovo and NCPA relationship 
– 
Announcement (upon award) via Lenovo social media outlets including LinkedIn, Twitter, 
Facebook, and Instagram 
– 
Lenovo YouTube Channel video explaining benefits and offerings of NCPA 
• 
Creation of contract-specific marketing flyer for distribution to Lenovo public sector customers  
• 
Ongoing contract awareness/education via telephone and email with public sector customers at 
all levels (e.g., executives, buyers, and end users) 
• 
Multiple contract references/mentions in various North American customer information sessions, 
including webinars and road shows specific to public sector customers 
• 
Ongoing contract awareness/education with our business partners to develop co-marketing 
opportunities specific to NCPA customer channels 
 
Describe how you intend to introduce NCPA to your company. 
Lenovo has successfully leveraged our contract with NCPA since 2015 and continually hosts training for 
our team members about the contract as well as new member on-boarding training. We will continue to 
emphasize our contract with NCPA to Lenovo sellers through the following: 
• 
Email notification to Lenovo public sector sales executives in each North American region 
covered with intent to cascade to all Lenovo public sector sellers 
• 
Several internal informational/orientation webcasts/conference calls for extended Lenovo North 
American sales teams 
• 
Announcement of award on Lenovo's social media outlets LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, and 
Instagram 
 
Describe your firm’s capabilities and functionality of your on-line catalog / ordering website. 
Lenovo can create a web portal designed specifically for our direct accounts. Each portal offers a range of 
products, services, tools, and support chosen specifically to meet your requirements including: 
• 
Personalization − Customer welcome page and customized order authorization levels 
• 
Solution selection − Customized product catalogue, specific prices, products that can be browsed 
by category with comparison capability, fast path to the most-frequently purchased solutions 
• 
Order direct and tracking in real time − Shipping and pay preferences in local currency, order 
tracking online 
53 of 116

--- page 54 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  26 
• 
Ease of use − Interactive help to choose options, contacts associated with account, self-service 
support tools 
 
Lenovo will provide a 24/7 online ordering portal specifically for NCPA purchases. The selected standard 
configurations will be displayed prominently on the home page and will also offer customization of internal 
components on non-image models. In addition to NCPA standards, Lenovo portal users will have access 
to Lenovo's full product catalog − or any subset thereof as designated by the customer − at negotiated 
pricing. The Lenovo web portal supports credit card, procurement card, and net 30 purchase methods, 
and may be limited to one or two methods as needed. 
 
The Lenovo web portal allows users to create and place orders, quotes, and save carts for future use. It 
also provides a link to our order history tool called Order Visibility Portal (OVP). The OVP tool provides 
comprehensive order information, customizable searches, and downloads. OVP users can create, save, 
and repeat custom reports, and can also schedule delivery of this information on a repeat basis. 
 
In addition to NPCA’s procurement website, Lenovo offers a 24/7 Technical Support website 
(support.lenovo.com/en_US/) that provides drivers, updates, how-to guides, technical help, and more. 
Users can check whether the product is in or out of warranty as well as the warranty expiration date 
(pcsupport.lenovo.com/us/en/warrantylookup#/) and view the most up-to-date product information. These 
support tools are easily accessed through the customized NCPA web portal. 
 
Describe your company’s Customer Service Department (hours of operation, number of service centers, 
etc.) 
NCPA can count on Lenovo to provide superior, 24/7/365 Help Desk support through our award-winning 
call centers. Spread across geographies and time zones, Lenovo’s 19 call centers give customers 
seamless coverage to support our customers wherever they are. The call center supporting the North 
American market is in Atlanta, Georgia. The latest telephony technology integrated with call routing and 
call management applications help to ensure shorter wait times for customers and provides customer call 
history information to support specialists with each call. Advanced technological links allow the routing of 
call center calls, transparently to the customer, to provide coverage during emergency situations or 
natural disasters. For example, when a US call center closed during a hurricane, calls were routed to 
Canada with no interruption in support to our customers. 
 
Once an end user places a call to the call center, the caller routed to the appropriate call center agent. 
This is where initial problem determination and remote diagnostics begin. If the problem is not resolved 
remotely or via the shipment of a self-service customer replaceable unit (CRU) at this stage, the agent will 
determine if the unit is eligible for repair or service (e.g., depot/repair center, carry-in, on-site). When the 
warranty involves on-site service, the agent will electronically dispatch a field service technician to the 
site. Our objective is to have the technician on-site based on the response objectives by location. The 
specialist will arrive with the right skills and training, the right parts, and an action plan to resolve the 
problem. 
 
Lenovo call centers can be reached via our website (https://support.lenovo.com/us/en) or via telephone 
(1-855-253-6686 #1).  
 
Green Initiatives (if applicable) 
• As our business grows, we want to make sure we minimize our impact on the Earth’s climate. We are 
taking every step we can to implement innovative and responsible environmental practices throughout 
NCPA to reduce our carbon footprint, reduce waste, energy conservation, ensure efficient computing and 
54 of 116

--- page 55 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  27 
much more. To that effort we ask respondents to provide their companies environmental policy and/or 
green initiative. 
Lenovo has reported on our sustainability efforts since 2008, including outlining our work and goals 
around climate change mitigation, the circular economy, and sustainable materials. After exceeding our 
2020 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals a year ahead of schedule, Lenovo has 
committed to a vision to achieve net-Zero by 2050 and is working with the Science Based Target 
Initiative to establish goals that support this vision.  
 
We continually seek new ways to reduce harmful GHG emissions across all of our business activities, 
including those of our suppliers and customers. Our commitment to climate change and a low-carbon 
economy can be seen through: 
• 
Approach – To minimize our carbon footprint, we follow a structured approach. This includes a 
climate and energy policy, climate change strategy, and key objectives and targets to meet. 
• 
Operations – As well as driving energy and cost savings, our operational initiatives help us to 
meet our climate change goals. 
• 
Performance – We have been reporting on our GHG emissions performance for over 10 years. 
By continuing to measure, analyze, and disclose our efforts, we strive to make a real difference 
each year. 
• 
Supply Chain – As a responsible corporate citizen, we monitor sustainability programs across 
our full supply chain. This includes targets to reduce GHG emissions and minimize environmental 
impacts. As an approximate percentage of production spend: 
 
 
For the third consecutive year, Lenovo has been recognized as one of the 2022 world’s 100 most 
sustainable companies by Corporate Knights. The Corporate Knights annual ESG-focused rankings 
evaluated over 7,000 global businesses which generate more than US$1 billion in revenue. Companies 
are evaluated based on 23 key performance indicators covering resource management, employee 
management, financial management, clean revenue, clean investment, and supplier performance. 
 
Product Development 
Lenovo has integrated green initiatives into all development operations. Every product development team 
has an environmentally conscious products focal point and environmental requirements as part of 
Lenovo’s environmental management system, to which all product development must comply. We actively 
manage our response to ongoing energy-related regulatory activities such as updates to emerging 
protocols and regulations, and industry-related standards, including: 
• 
ENERGY STAR® program specifications 
• 
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Appliance and Equipment Standards 
• 
California Appliance Efficiency Program requirements 
• 
China CEL and CECP Standards 
• 
EU Ecodesign (ErP) requirements 
 
55 of 116

--- page 56 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  28 
In 2020, we used nearly 6 million kilograms of recycled plastics in our products, including approximately 4 
million kilograms of closed-loop post-consumer recycled content across a portfolio of 103 products. 
Looking toward the future, we will continue to integrate sustainable materials and transition to a circular 
economy. By 2025, we are aiming for the following: 
• 
100 percent of PC products will contain post-consumer recycled content materials. 
• 
100 percent of smartphone products and accessories will be free of PVC and BFR. 
• 
90 percent of PC products plastic packaging and 60 percent of smartphone packaging will be 
made from recycled materials. 
• 
We will have enabled the recycling and reuse of 363 million kilograms of end-of-life products and 
use 136 million kilograms of post-consumer recycled content plastics in our products. 
 
Greener, Lighter Packaging 
Over a decade ago, Lenovo began using 100% recycled and 
recyclable packaging material. Instead of using polystyrene 
packaging, we now encourage the use of molded pulp, fiber, and low-
density polyethylene (LDPE). 
 
In 2018, we began implementing the use of an innovative, bio-based 
packaging made from bamboo and sugar cane fiber. The material is 
not only 100 percent biodegradable, but also lighter than previous 
packaging and its strength characteristics enable design 
improvements that reduce overall package size. This new packaging 
was used to ship memory cards and one of our ThinkPad models. 
With lighter packaging materials and package weight, the result was 
6.7 percent less transportation CO2 emissions. We are, therefore, looking to expand the use of this 
bamboo and sugar cane fiber packaging innovation. 
 
A number of our other green packaging initiatives include the following: 
• 
With 100% recycled thermoformed cushions, our PCs can now be stacked closer together and 
require less packaging material, helping to minimize shipping costs. 
• 
Many of our notebook product lines now use 100% post-consumer molded fiber (or paper pulp) 
packaging, which can be readily recycled in municipal waste streams. 
• 
All Think product primary carton boxes contain a minimum of 50% post-consumer fiber content 
and are required to use the maximum available post-consumer material. 
• 
98% of ThinkPad products now use recycled cushioning material, with the printing on boxes done 
via flexography with water-based, non-toxic, RoHS compliant inks. 
• 
The high recycled content foam we use for server packaging contains a minimum of 65% 
recycled resin content. 
• 
We are also working with suppliers to reuse packaging used for shipping between our suppliers 
and Lenovo factories. 
 
Anti-Discrimination Policy (if applicable) 
• Describe your organizations’ anti-discrimination policy. 
Maintaining a diverse culture and achieving its full potential is fundamental to the Lenovo’s competitive 
success. A key element in our workforce diversity programs is the commitment to equal employment 
opportunity and to prohibit discrimination, harassment, and similarly inappropriate behavior in the 
workplace. Lenovo’s policy and Code of Conduct commits to providing a work environment free of 
discrimination and harassment based on race, color, gender, religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic 
origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status, pregnancy, disability, or veteran 
status. Company policy prohibits management from making employment decisions based on such 
characteristics. These business activities and the design and administration of Lenovo’s benefit plans 
56 of 116

--- page 57 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  29 
must comply with all applicable laws. For qualified employees with disabilities, we will make reasonable 
accommodations needed for effective job performance in a manner that complies with applicable laws. 
 
Diversity and inclusion have been the building blocks of Lenovo’s history and are among our greatest 
strengths. Our diverse team of people and locations enables collaboration and sharing across borders 
and encourages us to adopt the best practices in the markets it serves. Lenovo is bringing awareness 
about inclusion to all its leaders and employees in a variety of ways, including global anti-harassment 
training to ensure a workplace free of harassment. This year, we are conducting a global campaign with 
100 percent target completion rate for global anti-harassment training. 
 
We understand that a diverse business model starts at the top. Lenovo’s leaders throughout the world 
hold a deep commitment to these values that fuel long-term growth. We believe that a global workforce 
should reflect the global customers that it serves, and this begins with leadership that is representative of 
the various cultures and ethnicities that comprise our internal talent. 
 
Vendor Certifications (if applicable) 
• Provide a copy of all current licenses, registrations and certifications issued by federal, state and local 
agencies, and any other licenses, registrations or certifications from any other governmental entity with 
jurisdiction, allowing respondent to perform the covered services including, but not limited to, licenses, 
registrations, or certifications. Certifications can include M/WBE, HUB, and manufacturer certifications for 
sales and service. 
Lenovo maintains the necessary business licenses in the various jurisdictions in which we operate 
globally, including all states and provinces located in the United States and Canada. Our corporate tax 
identification numbers are 52-2449153 (US) and 85480-7039 RT0001 (Canada). Lenovo is not classified 
as a small or disadvantaged business. 
 
Lenovo also maintains the necessary licenses and certifications related to Lenovo's manufacturing 
operations. For example, Lenovo has achieved certifications such as ISO 14001:2015 (environmental), 
ISO 50001:2018 (energy management), ISO 45001:2018 (occupational health and safety), and ISO 
9001:2015 (quality management systems). We are happy to provide additional details upon request. 
 
 
 
 
57 of 116

--- page 58 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  30 
Tab 5 – Products and Services/Scope 
Respondent shall perform and provide these products and/or services under the terms of this agreement. 
The supplier shall assist the end user with making a determination of their individual needs. 
 
Warranty 
Proposal should address the following warranty information: 
• Applicable warranty and/or guarantees of equipment and installations including any conditions and 
response time for repair and/or replacement of any components during the warranty period. 
• Availability of replacement parts 
• Life expectancy of equipment under normal use 
• Detailed information as to proposed return policy on all equipment 
Products 
• Vendor shall provide equipment, materials and products that are new unless otherwise specified, of 
good quality and free of defects 
Construction 
• Vendor shall perform services in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with industry 
standards for the service provided. 
Lenovo’s Limited Warranty 
Please note, as Lenovo proposes to utilize the Lenovo Customer Agreement as the basis for the terms 
and conditions governing Lenovo’s products and services, the issue of warranty is fully addressed within 
that Agreement. Installation services are not considered part of warranty service but may be obtained 
through a value-added service. 
 
Please refer to Attachment A, D, and E inside Lenovo’s Customer Agreement for applicable Warranty 
Service Terms. 
 
Please refer to Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement on page 50 for a copy of the Lenovo Customer 
Agreement. 
 
Warranty Parts Process for Lenovo 
Lenovo maintains service parts throughout the warranty/service period. Lenovo makes commercially 
reasonable efforts to maintain service parts for five years from product launch date.  
 
A key fundamental component of product warranty is our Parts Depots. Support for Lenovo Think and 
System x products is made available through our industry leading parts inventory management system. 
This service support system includes automated dispatch, updated service technologies, preventive 
maintenance activities, and a parts distribution system. 
 
Lenovo’s parts stocking and distribution strategy is for parts to be readily available for delivery to a 
customer’s location to meet the required levels of service for each machine type. Parts are stocked in 
Mechanicsburg, PA, for Think and System x products and in Grapevine, TX, for Idea products. Efforts are 
made to support these geographic areas at an availability level in excess of 80-85 percent of total 
requirements. 
 
Regardless of warranty status, Lenovo will cross ship new or equivalent-to-new parts the same day they 
are ordered, provided order is placed before 3 p.m. (ET). For orders received after that time, Lenovo will 
ship the part out to meet the service response objectives. In many cases, Lenovo does not require receipt 
of the failed part before sending out a new part. 
58 of 116

--- page 59 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  31 
 
Support for third-party products and software is provided directly by the vendor of the product. The 
combination of an excellent parts inventory, service representative, and additional support structure for 
Lenovo-branded products will ensure that NCPA receives world-class service coverage. 
 
Life Expectancy 
Lenovo Think, notebook, desktop, servers, and workstation products as well System x server and storage 
products are highly durable and engineered for a four- to five-year lifecycle. 
 
Returns 
Lenovo’s return policy for public sector customer is 30 days. When a return is needed due to dead-on-
arrival (DOA) devices, damaged product, incorrect quantity, or incorrect product delivered, the claim has 
to be submitted to the appropriate Lenovo inside sales or customer service representative. After analysis 
and internal approvals, Lenovo will manage the collection of the product from the customer site. Lenovo 
will then refund the customer for the amount paid for the product that is returned. 
 
The following is a list of suggested (but not limited to) Technology Solutions, Products and Services 
categories. List all categories along with manufacturer that you are responding with: 
 
Products 
Products 
Manufacturers 
 
Laptops / Notebooks / 2-in-1s 
Lenovo and Durabook 
 
Tablets 
Lenovo 
 
Desktop Computers 
Lenovo 
 
Workstations – Fixed and Mobile 
Lenovo 
 
Gaming Devices 
Lenovo  
 
Chromebooks – Education and Enterprise 
Lenovo 
 
Servers 
 
 
High Performance Computing 
 
 
Data Storage / Drives 
 
 
Converged Infrastructure 
 
 
Hyper Converged Infrastructure 
 
 
Cloud Products 
 
 
Software 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Security Solutions 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Data Protection HW / SW 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Networking 
 
 
Internet of Things (IOT) 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Sensors & Edge Devices 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Printers & Accessories 
Third-party partners 
 
Digital Imaging – Cameras / Scanner 
Third-party partners 
 
Keyboard / Mice / Input Devices 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Memory / System Components 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
59 of 116

--- page 60 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  32 
 
Displays / Large Format Displays / Interactive 
Flat Panels 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Spare Parts 
Lenovo 
 
Accessories / Cables 
Lenovo 
 
Battery Back-up / Power / Surge Protectors 
Third-party partners 
 
Sound / Multimedia 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Telecommunications Products 
Motorola 
 
Video – Monitors / Cards / Projector 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Interactive Whiteboards 
 
 
Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Software 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) 
 
 
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) 
 
 
Software Licensing and Maintenance 
Agreements 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Subscription Based Software Licenses 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Software Related Services 
Lenovo and third-party partners 
 
Lenovo manufacturers a wide range of hardware to meet the entirety of the requirements for government 
and education customers. We offer various form factors of desktops, towers, small form factors and tiny, 
and in our notebooks as well, clamshell, 2-in-1 (Yoga), detachable and foldable. We also offer both AMD 
and Intel options throughout the portfolio. The list below is not exhaustive but represents our core 
hardware offerings. 
 
Laptops  
X Series – X1 Carbon, X1 Extreme, X1 Nano, X1 Yoga, X1 
Titanium Yoga, X1 Fold 16, X13, X13s, and X13 Yoga 
T Series – T14, T14s, T16, T15p, T15g 
L Series – L13, L13 Yoga, L14, L15 
E Series – E14, E15 
C Series – C14 
ThinkBook – 13s, 13x, 14, 14p, 15, 16, 16p 
Legion 
Mobile Thin Clients  
Chromebooks – 10e, 11e, 14e, 14w, 100e, 300e, 
500e 
 
Laptop Workstations 
P Series – P17, P14s, P15, P15s, P15v, P1 
 
60 of 116

--- page 61 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  33 
Desktops  
M Series Tower – M90t, M80t, M70t, M75t 
M Series Small Form Factor – M75s, M70s, M80s, M90s 
M Series Tiny – M75q, M70q, M80q, M90q 
M Series Nano – M75 IoT 
M Series All in One – M90a, M70a 
Tiny-in-One – TIO 22”, TIO 24”, TIO 27” 
IoT Smart Edge, Nano IoT and EPC300 
Legion, Legion Cube 
Thin Client 
 
Desktop Workstations 
P Series – P360 Tower/Ultra/Tiny, P520, P520c, P620, P720, P920, P920 Rack 
 
Tablets 
X12 Detachable 
Android – Tab M8 HD, Smart Tab M8 HD, Tab M10 FHD Plus, Smart Tab M10 FHD Plus w/Google, 
Smart Tab M10 FHD Plus w/Alexa, Yoga Smart Tab s10 w/Google, P11 Pro 
 
Smartphones 
Motorola has a 90-year history of innovation…from the first cellular phone to the first 5G device. As the #3 
smartphone manufacturer in North America and a business group within the Lenovo corporate structure, 
Motorola has steadily grown by being the dominant consumer-centric smartphone manufacturer – solving 
consumer pain points through innovation to create unparalleled value. Motorola’s portfolio consists of 
products that have the longest battery life, best cellular performance, enterprise grade security with 
ThinkShield for Mobile, and durability to protect the devices against everyday spills and splashes.  
 
Motorola offers three product families to meet every need: 
• 
Moto G, “Designed for What Matters” – This value family brings aspirational innovation at 
assessable price points. Premium features such as a stylus, triple cameras, and large displays 
are available with the Moto G portfolio.  
• 
Edge, “Expanding Possibilities” – This innovative line is comprised of expert mobile 
craftsmanship that drives what’s next with features such as Ready For, the fastest 5G, and the 
best in entertainment and imaging experiences. The Edge family is all about performance, style, 
and technology. 
• 
Razr, “Redefining Boundaries” – The iconic Razr provides all the conveniences of a modern 
smartphone in the most compact foldable form factor – a design focused innovation. The Razr is 
a true industry disruptor and has the largest external display to easily access all your content. 
 
 
Services 
Services 
Manufacturers 
 
Deployment & Installation 
Lenovo 
 
Professional Services 
Lenovo 
 
Consulting Services 
Lenovo 
 
Security Services 
Lenovo 
 
Business Continuity / Business Resiliency 
Lenovo 
 
Disaster Recovery 
Lenovo 
 
VMware Professional Services 
Lenovo 
61 of 116

--- page 62 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  34 
 
Microsoft Professional Services 
Lenovo 
 
AWS Product and Services 
Lenovo 
 
Application Services – End User 
Lenovo 
 
Application Services – Data Center 
Lenovo 
 
Residencies 
Lenovo 
 
Managed Services – End User 
Lenovo 
 
Managed Services – Data Center 
Lenovo 
 
Education & Training 
Lenovo 
 
Telecommunications 
Lenovo 
 
Product Configurations 
Lenovo 
 
Product Support 
Lenovo 
 
Warranty 
Lenovo 
 
Asset Lifecycle Management 
Lenovo 
 
Asset Recovery 
Lenovo 
 
Lenovo Services has a wide array of offerings available to help organizations plan, manage, and support 
their Lenovo hardware. From initial strategic planning to configuration, deployment, security, and more – 
Lenovo has services and solutions to help companies embrace new workplace technologies. 
 
Planning Services – Planning services include strategy, assessment, and personal consultation to 
define the “who, what, where, when, and why” for how an organization can integrate Lenovo solutions. 
Lenovo experts work closely with your team to carefully examine and plot out how services will be 
deployed across the organization’s technology footprint, and how Lenovo can help the organization 
achieve its business goals. Examples include: 
• 
Lenovo Whiteboard Sessions 
• 
Windows Transition Services 
 
Configuration Services – Configuration services shift the expensive and labor-intensive deskside 
functions from in-house IT teams to highly skilled Lenovo technicians. These services make sure devices 
are ready for use when they arrive at your customer’s organization. Configuration services reduce 
operational costs, minimize downtime, and quickly get employees productive with their new PCs. 
Examples include: 
• 
Custom Imaging Services – Includes Image Verification, Image Design/Build, Smart Image 
Services, Image Management, First-Boot Services, and Custom BIOS 
• 
Ready-to-Provision (RTP) Services – Includes RTP Release Control and RTP Plus 
• 
Asset Tagging  
• 
Laser Etching 
• 
Custom Carton Labels  
• 
Microsoft Autopilot Registration 
• 
Drop-in-the-Box documentation 
 
Deployment Services – When devices arrive at your location, there are many complex and time-
consuming tasks for IT to perform for employees to actually begin using their new PCs with the apps and 
security the company requires. Lenovo’s Deployment Services shift this burden from internal IT teams to 
Lenovo technicians. Examples include: 
• 
Chrome OS Zero-Touch Enrollment 
• 
Custom Fulfillment Services 
• 
Advanced Deployment Services 
62 of 116

--- page 63 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  35 
• 
Lenovo Cloud Provisioning and Recovery  
• 
Modern IT Kits 
 
Support and Protection Services – Lenovo’s rich portfolio of support and protection services give 
customers the technical support, backup, and repair services needed to keep devices performing at peak 
efficiency. This includes Lenovo ThinkShield for critical device security and protection from cybersecurity 
threats. Other examples include: 
• 
Warranty Extensions and Upgrades 
– 
Accidental Damage Protection 
– 
Sealed Battery Warranty  
– 
Keep-Your-Drive Service 
• 
Depot or Onsite Support Services 
• 
Premier Support 
• 
Legion Ultimate Support 
• 
Services Engagement Management 
• 
ThinkShield security solutions  
• 
Lenovo Device Intelligence Plus 
 
Managed Services – Lenovo Managed Services offer other valuable services for IT teams and a portfolio 
of Lenovo-developed and partner-developed software solutions, including on-site help desks, compliance 
monitoring and management, and inventory control. Other examples include: 
• 
Lenovo Project Management Office – Includes help desk augmentation/integration and desktop 
deployment services 
• 
Lenovo Solution Café, Smart Kiosk, Smart Vending, and Smart Lockers 
• 
Advanced Exchange Services 
• 
Staff Augmentation  
• 
Lenovo Device-as-a-Service (DaaS) 
 
Asset Recovery Services – Lenovo offers solutions for the environmentally friendly disposal of units 
while maximizing residual value and ensuring data security and environmental compliance. Examples 
include: 
• 
CO2 Offset 
• 
Asset Recycling 
• 
Value Recovery 
• 
Lenovo Genuine Parts 
 
 
Financial Services Offerings 
Financial Services Offerings  
Manufacturers 
 
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) 
Lenovo 
 
Leasing for Public and Private/Commercial 
Entities with schedules included for: 
Lenovo 
 
• Fair Market Value Lease 
Lenovo 
 
• Purchase Option Lease 
Lenovo 
 
• Tax Exempt Lease Purchase Lease 
Lenovo 
 
• Flex Lease Purchase 
Lenovo 
 
• PC-as-a-Service 
Lenovo 
63 of 116

--- page 64 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  36 
 
• Software Schedule 
Lenovo 
 
Deferred Payments (Direct and Indirect 
Financing) 
Lenovo 
 
Payment Agreements 
Lenovo 
 
Usage Agreements 
Lenovo 
 
Lenovo offers a complete portfolio of IT solutions under our new TruScale “as-a-Service” umbrella. 
Lenovo TruScale Services simplify and optimize everything from hardware, software, and licensing to 
support and management, with one contract and one point of contact. TruScale consists of two primary 
building blocks – Infrastructure-as-a-Service and Device-as-a-Service; however, the entire Lenovo 
portfolio is available as-a-service from a single vendor. 
 
In addition, Lenovo Financial Services or LFS (www.lenovo.com/us/en/outletus/landingpage/lenovo-
financial-services/) reinforces Lenovo’s commitment to deliver pioneering products and services 
recognized for their quality, excellence, and trustworthiness. We offer financing solutions and services 
that compliment your technology solution anywhere in the world.  
 
LFS is uniquely qualified to support and manage opportunities with customized and integrated processes. 
Additional benefits you may enjoy when financing with LFS include: 
• 
Ability to Bundle Costs – LFS offers the option to finance your entire IT solution including 
hardware, software, and business partner services into a single transaction and invoice. 
• 
Total Life-Cycle Management – We offer life-cycle management of your technology assets from 
acquisition to disposition allowing your organization to always have the most current technology 
at the lowest cost. 
• 
Protection Against Advancing Technology – Financing through LFS allows you to deploy the 
latest technological advances with minimal financial impact or risk. Depending upon the lease 
structure selected, you can add-on or upgrade during the term of the contract, or you can choose 
to return, extend, or purchase the assets at the end of the contact. 
• 
Lower Upfront Costs – Financing 100% of your purchase reduces deployment costs, providing 
your organization with an ability to acquire the IT assets you need today without impacting cash 
flow. In addition to preserving working capital and keeping credit lines intact, using an LFS 
procurement solution allows a quicker ROI. 
 
Finally, customers with large transactions (i.e., hundreds or thousands of assets) will benefit from LFS’ 
Premier Client Services. Each large account is assigned a servicing representative as a single point of 
contact for the lifetime of the relationship. 
 
 
64 of 116

--- page 65 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  43 
Tab 8 – Value Added Products and Services 
Include any additional products and/or services available that vendor currently performs in their normal 
course of business that is not included in the scope of the solicitation that you think will enhance and add 
value to this contract for Region 14 ESC and all NCPA participating entities. 
 
Commitment to Public Sector 
Lenovo’s commitment to the public sector runs deep. Currently, Lenovo is supporting public sector 
customers in every state in the United States, with more than 1,700 government solution contracts. 
Lenovo is on the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) and has 
been a tested and proven supplier to federal, state, and local agencies across the country. 
 
We have invested in dedicated account teams focused on federal, state, and local government as well as 
teams that specialize in K-12 education and higher education. In addition, we have created a dedicated 
center of excellence (COE) for contracts and procurement to ensure a smooth working relationship with 
our public sector customers. Also, the COE team can help customers navigate national and state 
purchasing contracts, ensuring they remain compliant with local mandates. 
 
Lenovo’s long history of delivering quality products has made us the world’s #1 PC and tablet maker. We 
deliver unprecedented reliability and unbeatable mobility to over 900 state and local agencies across the 
US. Additionally, over 22 military and civilian federal agencies choose Lenovo to modernize their mission. 
Lenovo is a trusted provider to various federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Department of Energy.  
 
We share your commitment to end-to-end security, as evidenced in our TAA-compliant products and 
supply chain. Additionally, we incorporate NIST and TCG standards as well as TPM 2.0 and secure BIOS 
firmware for peace of mind. The result is trustworthy technology to drive the most critical government 
agency functions. 
 
White Glove Services (Primarily for Education) 
Effortlessly migrate and integrate new Chromebooks PCs. Lenovo’s “white glove” service comprises 
of planning, setup, and end-to-end management of custom rollouts and deployments, reducing cost and 
time to deploy. Pre-enrolled and activated in the Google console, new PCs integrate seamlessly into the 
organization’s existing environment, right out of the box. A Lenovo Services project manager works with 
the customer and service delivery teams to develop a jointly agreed to schedule of services, which likely 
will include the following tasks. 
1. Receive system units and stage the equipment in a climate-controlled warehouse.  
2. Unbox all systems and thoroughly inspect for any physical damages or blemishes.  
3. Identify any system issues or DOA devices to Lenovo and/or customer.  
4. Update the Chrome OS to the latest version.  
5. Enroll the Chrome OS devices into customer’s Google Apps domain using an enrollment account that 
does not require admin privileges.  
6. Perform wireless network configuration for customer’s network. 
7. Repackage all equipment and then deliver to the final customer location based on the required and 
established schedule. 
 
White glove services for Windows devices are also available upon request. 
 
65 of 116

--- page 66 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  44 
Services to Solidify Security in our Supply Chain 
As the technology to serve remote workers is growing more sophisticated, so are the techniques to 
exploit it. Vulnerabilities in the supply chain can create opportunities for criminals to tamper with PCs, 
removing or replacing components and causing anything from device malfunctions to stolen or lost data. 
In this evolving threat landscape, Lenovo has partnered with Intel to provide Trusted Device Setup 
Services and Transparent Supply Chain Services to keep customers protected by sealing software at 
the point of manufacturing and bringing Lenovo security into the transport and delivery cycle. The 
Transparent Supply Chain Service expands device protection into transport and delivery, minimizing the 
risk of PC tampering throughout the supply chain. The Trusted Device Setup Service minimizes the risk of 
preload tampering (in transport or at the partner site). Trusted Device Setup takes place in the factory, 
whereas Transparent Supply Chain encompasses transportation. Together, these two services create a 
secure chain of ownership, enabling security from manufacturing through delivery. 
 
Sustainability Services All Around 
Lenovo strives to not only make great products but also offer services related to those products that make 
our customers’ decisions easier and better for the community. End-of-life services such as Asset 
Recovery Services give customers the peace of mind that their devices are recycled properly with 
certified data wiped drives and the ability to reclaim any residual value the device may hold. Along with 
our sustainability approach, we also offer CO2 Offset Services that will cover emissions not only during 
the manufacturing of the device but throughout the life of the device as well. 
 
Lenovo Whiteboard Sessions  
Lenovo works with customers to coordinate a whiteboard session led by a Lenovo Services technical 
specialist with the support of Lenovo’s Transition Services Team and the Image Technology Center. The 
session is designed to dive deep into a customer’s current PC lifecycle process with a full, end-to-
end review of internal process flows and associated challenges, gaps, and goals. The intent of the 
deep-dive session is to understand an individual organization’s business objectives and how those impact 
future deployment solution needs. Lenovo’s whiteboard session summary provides a recommended 
future PC deployment solution based on an organization’s unique capabilities and infrastructure, along 
with Lenovo’s innovative configuration services, automation and cloud capabilities, and industry best 
practices.  
 
The Lenovo Services team documents a customer’s current and recommends future process workflows 
along with the benefits. A whiteboard session allows different parts of a customer’s organization to 
collaborate, learn about best practice solutions other customers are using, and discuss how those best 
practices can be used to create efficiencies in their own process. Creating and documenting this process 
reduces costs across the deployment, including an 80% reduction in deployment time, and transitions the 
customer to a user self-serve deployment process allowing their team to focus on other projects.  
 
After the session, Lenovo will provide a customized solution report that maps out the organization’s 
current imaging processes and deployment workflow, and also recommends deployment services to 
support an improved, highly efficient workflow leveraging automation with associated cost assumptions. 
 
ThinkShield Security 
ThinkShield is a custom solution that secures an organization’s most critical data and business 
technologies with comprehensive, end-to-end protection. From the moment we envision a new 
platform, we incorporate a security-by-design approach into the R&D process that extends to our supply 
chain to deliver on our vision of platform security. 
 
Lenovo ThinkShield solutions seamlessly integrate with our industry-leading Lenovo devices to improve 
user experience and operational efficacy while helping to minimize overall IT cost. With the rapid digital 
66 of 116

--- page 67 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  45 
transformation of the workplace, ThinkShield keeps customers protected from the evolving threat 
landscape with advanced, next-gen security capabilities so that your risks and response times are 
reduced.  
 
Our holistic approach to security starts with our platform security. Built-in ThinkShield security solutions 
come standard on Lenovo’s industry-leading Think-branded devices. These include such features as our 
self-healing bios or the Trusted Supplier program, a rigorous vetting process to ensure every supplier 
meets the highest standards of trust. 
 
Access to Testing and Demo Equipment 
Upon request, Lenovo will provide demo equipment for testing purposes that meet the needs of the 
organization. Also, Lenovo offers customers the opportunity to buy the demo equipment or return it to 
Lenovo when testing is complete. 
  
  
67 of 116

--- page 68 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  46 
Tab 9 – Required Documents 
Federal Funds Certifications 
The following clauses are deemed by Lenovo to not be applicable: 
• 
(D) Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 3141-3148). When required by Federal program 
legislation, all prime construction contracts in excess of $2,000 awarded by non-Federal entities 
must include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3141-3144, and 
3146-3148) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR Part 5, “Labor 
Standards Provisions Applicable to Contracts Covering Federally Financed and Assisted 
Construction”). In accordance with the statute, contractors must be required to pay wages to 
laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the prevailing wages specified in a wage 
determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors must be required to pay 
wages not less than once a week. The non-Federal entity must place a copy of the current 
prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor in each solicitation. The 
decision to award a contract or subcontract must be conditioned upon the acceptance of the 
wage determination. The non- Federal entity must report all suspected or reported violations to 
the Federal awarding agency. The contracts must also include a provision for compliance with the 
Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (40 U.S.C. 3145), as supplemented by Department of Labor 
regulations (29 CFR Part 3, “Contractors and Subcontractors on Public Building or Public Work 
Financed in Whole or in Part by Loans or Grants from the United States”). The Act provides that 
each contractor or subrecipient must be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person 
employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the 
compensation to which he or she is otherwise entitled. The non-Federal entity must report all 
suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding agency. 
 
• Pursuant to Federal Rule (D) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal 
funds during the term of an award for all contracts and subgrants for construction or 
repair, offeror will be in compliance with all applicable Davis-Bacon Act provisions 
 
• Any Participating Agency will include any current and applicable prevailing wage 
determination in each issued solicitation and provide Offeror with any required 
documentation and/or forms that must be completed by Offeror to remain in compliance 
the applicable Davis-Bacon Act provisions. 
 
• 
(E) Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701-3708). Where applicable, all 
contracts awarded by the non-Federal entity in excess of $100,000 that involve the employment 
of mechanics or laborers must include a provision for compliance with 40 U.S.C. 3702 and 3704, 
as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR Part 5). Under 40 U.S.C. 3702 of 
the Act, each contractor must be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer 
on the basis of a standard work week of 40 hours. Work in excess of the standard work week is 
permissible provided that the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than one and a half 
times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in the work week. The 
requirements of 40 U.S.C. 3704 are applicable to construction work and provide that no laborer or 
mechanic must be required to work in surroundings or under working conditions which are 
unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of 
supplies or materials or articles ordinarily available on the open market, or contracts for 
transportation or transmission of intelligence. 
 
• Pursuant to Federal Rule (E) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal 
funds, offeror certifies that offeror will be in compliance with all applicable provisions of 
68 of 116

--- page 69 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  47 
the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act during the term of an award for all 
contracts by Participating Agency resulting from this procurement process. 
 
• 
(F) Rights to Inventions Made Under a Contract or Agreement. If the Federal award meets the 
definition of “funding agreement” under 37 CFR §401.2 (a) and the recipient or subrecipient 
wishes to enter into a contract with a small business firm or nonprofit organization regarding the 
substitution of parties, assignment or performance of experimental, developmental, or research 
work under that “funding agreement,” the recipient or subrecipient must comply with the 
requirements of 37 CFR Part 401, “Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and 
Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements,” and 
any implementing regulations issued by the awarding agency. 
 
• Pursuant to Federal Rule (F) above, when federal funds are expended by Participating 
Agency, the offeror certifies that during the term of an award for all contracts by 
Participating Agency resulting from this procurement process, the offeror agrees to 
comply with all applicable requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (F) above 
 
Lenovo takes exception to the following certification as Lenovo does not provide a blanket compliance 
statement as it relates to this provision. Requests to expressly state compliance with this provision shall 
be considered on a case-by-case basis. 
 
• 
CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICA PROVISIONS 
To the extent purchases are made with Federal Highway Administration, Federal Railroad 
Administration, or Federal Transit Administration funds, offeror certifies that its products comply 
with all applicable provisions of the Buy America Act and agrees to provide such certification or 
applicable waiver with respect to specific products to any Participating Agency upon request. 
Participating Agencies will clearly identify whether Buy America Provisions apply in any issued 
solicitation. Purchases made in accordance with the Buy America Act must still follow the 
applicable procurement rules calling for free and open competition. 
 
 
Clean Air and Water Act & Debarment Notice 
To the best of our knowledge and belief, Lenovo concurs. 
 
Contractors Requirements 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
Required Clauses for Federal Assistance by FTA 
The entire “Require Clauses for Federal Assistance Provided by FTA” section is deemed by Lenovo to 
not be applicable. 
 
Federal Required Signatures 
Please refer to page 48 for Lenovo’s completed Federal Required Signatures form. 
 
Antitrust Certification Statements Texas Government Code § 2155.005 
Please refer to page 49 for Lenovo’s completed Antitrust Certification Statements Texas Government 
Code form. 
 
State Notice Addendum 
Lenovo concurs. 
 
 
69 of 116

--- page 70 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  48 
Federal Required Signatures 
Offeror certifies compliance with all provisions, laws, acts, regulations, etc. as specifically noted in the 
pages above.* It is further acknowledged that offeror agrees to comply with all federal, state, and local 
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances as applicable. 
 
*Note: Lenovo certifies compliance with all provisions, laws, acts, regulations, etc. as specifically noted in 
the pages above with the exceptions noted regarding clauses that do not apply to Lenovo and the Lenovo 
statement pertaining to the Buy America Provisions. 
 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc._____ 
Offeror 
 
8001 Development Drive _______ 
Address 
 
Morrisville, NC 27560__________ 
City State Zip 
 
___________________________ 
Authorized Signature 
 
November 17, 2022____________ 
Date 
 
 
70 of 116

--- page 71 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  49 
Antitrust Certification Statements Texas Government 
Code § 2155.005 
 
I affirm under penalty of perjury of the laws of the State of Texas that: 
(1) I am duly authorized to execute this contract on my own behalf or on behalf of the company, 
corporation, firm, partnership or individual (Company) listed below; 
(2) In connection with this bid, neither I nor any representative of the Company has violated any provision 
of the Texas Free Enterprise and Antitrust Act, Tex. Bus. & Comm. Code Chapter 15; 
(3) In connection with this bid, neither I nor any representative of the Company has violated any federal 
antitrust law; and 
(4) Neither I nor any representative of the Company has directly or indirectly communicated any of the 
contents of this bid to a competitor of the Company or any other company, corporation, firm, partnership 
or individual engaged in the same line of business as the Company. 
 
Lenovo (United States) Inc._____ 
Company Name 
 
8001 Development Drive _______ 
Address 
 
Morrisville, NC 27560__________ 
City State Zip 
 
855-253-6686________________ 
Telephone Number  
 
 
 
 
n/a_________________________ 
Fax Number 
 
destridge@lenovo.com _________ 
Email Address 
 
Darren Estridge _______________ 
Printed Name   
 
 
 
 
Executive Director_____________ 
Title 
 
____________________________ 
Authorized Signature 
 
 
71 of 116

--- page 72 ---
Lenovo (United States) Inc.  50 
Appendix A: Lenovo Customer Agreement 
This appendix includes a copy of the Lenovo Customer Agreement as referenced in our responses within 
Tab 1 and Tab 2. 
 
 
 
72 of 116

--- page 73 ---
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Signature Page - Page 1 of 1 
 
 
 
Lenovo Customer Agreement 
 “Personal Computer”  
Parties 
This Lenovo Customer Agreement (this “Agreement”) is made by and between:  
1. 
National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance (“Customer”) with an office at PO Box 701273, Houston, TX 77270, 
and 
2. 
Lenovo (United States) Inc. (“Lenovo”) with an office at 8001 Development Dr., Morrisville, NC 27560. 
Customer and Lenovo may be referred to collectively as the “Parties” and each individually as a “Party”.  
Agreement Structure 
The following documents are incorporated into and form part of this Agreement: 
Attachment A: 
General Terms 
Attachment B: 
Pricing, Products, Services Descriptions and Contact Details 
Attachment C: 
Warranty Service Information (“Personal Computer”) 
 
This Agreement applies to all Products and Services ordered by Customer in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Each Party accepts the terms of this Agreement by signing either by hand or, where permitted by law, electronically. 
Any reproduction of this Agreement, an Attachment or a Transaction Document made by reliable means, such as PDF 
using email, shall be considered an original. The Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly 
authorized representatives as of the Effective Date. After signing, please return a copy of this Agreement to the Lenovo 
address shown above. 
Accepted and agreed for and on behalf of: 
 
Accepted and agreed for and on behalf of: 
National Cooperative Purchasing Alliance 
 
Lenovo (United States), Inc. 
 
by:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized signature 
 
by:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized signature 
 
Signatory Name:  
 
 
 
(type or print) 
 
 
Signatory Name:  
 
 
 
(type or print) 
 
Signatory Title:  
 
Signatory Title: 
Signature Date: 
 
 
 
 
Signature Date: 
 
73 of 116

--- page 74 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 1 of 11 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
General Terms 
1 
Definitions 
In this Agreement, in addition to the various terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the following terms 
shall be interpreted as follows: 
1.1 
“Affiliate” means, with respect to any party, any entity that, during the Term, directly or indirectly controls, is 
controlled by, or is under common control with such party. For purposes of this definition, “controls” 
“controlled by,” and “under common control with” mean (i) the ownership, direct or indirect, of (a) more 
than fifty percent (>50%) of the shares of stock entitled to vote for the election of directors, in the case of a 
corporation, or (b) more than fifty percent (>50%) or such other controlling interest (as determined by 
applicable law) in the equity interests of any other type of legal entity (whether in the form of stock or 
otherwise), or (ii) status as a general partner in any partnership, or any other arrangement whereby a party 
controls or has the right to control the board of directors or equivalent governing body of a corporation or other 
entity. 
1.2 
“Enterprise” means a Party, and any entity that is controlled by, controls, or is under common control or 
ownership with such Party, including its sister companies, parent, Affiliates or subsidiaries. 
1.3 
“Hardware Product” means a physical programmable electronic Lenovo-branded or Third Party-branded 
device designed to process data and perform logic operations, as well as any related device and may include, 
without limitation, a personal computer, a server, a storage device, and any related accessory and device. 
1.4 
“Lenovo Partners” means Lenovo and its Affiliates, and their subcontractors, assignees, relevant service 
providers, distributors and resellers. 
1.5 
“Machine” means a Lenovo-branded Hardware Product (to be identified by a “Machine Type”), as well as its 
features, conversions or upgrades. 
1.6 
“Machine Code” means all code provided for a Machine (including, without limitation, a Machine’s firmware 
and microcode), excluding code that is licensed under a license agreement other than the terms of this 
Agreement governing the use of Machine Code. The term “Machine Code” specifically includes any whole or 
partial copy of Machine Code, and any fix, patch, or replacement provided for Machine Code. The licensing 
of Machine Code is described in Section 8 “Licenses for Machine Code” of this Attachment A “General Terms” 
below. 
1.7 
“Materials” means literary works or other works of authorship, such as Programs and code, documentation, 
reports, and similar works that Lenovo may deliver to Customer as part of a Service, but excluding Programs, 
Machine Code, and other items available under their own license terms or agreements. 
1.8 
“Price” means, as applicable, the price payable for a Product or the charge payable for a Service. 
1.9 
“Product” means any Hardware Product or Program that Lenovo makes available for purchase by Customer 
under this Agreement. 
1.10 
“Program” means any Lenovo-branded or Third Party software, whether in object code or source code form, 
and whether pre-loaded or provided separately, which is licensed to Customer under a separate license 
agreement. The term “Program” also includes related licensed materials, such as documentation, but always 
excludes Machine Code. 
1.11 
“Service” means the performance of a task, the provision of advice or assistance, or access to a resource 
such as an information data base that Lenovo makes available to Customer under this Agreement. Unless 
otherwise agreed hereafter, terms and conditions relating to additional Services other than any warranty 
services shall be agreed subsequently and set forth in a separate Transaction Document. 
1.12 
“Third Party” means any legal entity or individual person which or who is not subject to the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement, and hence neither a Party nor an Affiliate of a Party. 
74 of 116

--- page 75 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 2 of 11 
 
1.13 
“Transaction Document” means, strictly subject to Section 18.2 of this Attachment A “General Terms”, a 
separate subsequent document accepted by the Parties referencing this Agreement and which contains 
specific details and terms related to an individual transaction, such as a purchase order, service transaction, 
statement of work, supplement, product catalog, schedule, invoice, exhibit, change authorization, amendment 
or addendum and any applicable annex. One or more Transaction Documents may be associated with a single 
transaction. Each transaction under this Agreement constitutes a separate agreement, and is independent 
from other such transactions. 
2 
Orders, Acceptance and Delivery 
2.1 
Customer may place one or more orders, subject to acceptance by Lenovo, for any of the Products and 
Services agreed between the Parties under this Agreement, in particular as agreed in a Transaction Document 
or in an Attachment. Unless agreed otherwise, Customer accepts the terms in Transaction Documents by: (i) 
signing the relevant Transaction Document, by hand, or electronically or otherwise manifesting assent thereto; 
(ii) using the Product or Service, or allowing others to do so; or (iii) making any payment for a Product or 
Service. 
2.2 
Unless agreed otherwise by Lenovo, acceptance by Lenovo of any such order shall be subject to: (i) proof of 
Customer’s creditworthiness satisfactory to Lenovo; or (ii) Lenovo’s receipt of a payment guarantee from either 
Customer or another acceptable guarantor, in a form acceptable to Lenovo. 
2.3 
A Product or Service becomes subject to this Agreement when Lenovo accepts Customer’s order by: (i) 
signing a Transaction Document; (ii) sending Customer written acceptance of the order or billing Customer for 
the same; (iii) shipping the Product; or (iv) otherwise making the Product or Service available to Customer. 
Confirmation of Lenovo’s receipt of a Customer order does not constitute Lenovo’s acceptance of that 
Customer order. 
2.4 
Any Transaction Document will require written signature of both Parties, if requested by either Party. 
2.5 
Delivery dates and shipping dates are estimates, unless otherwise specifically agreed by Lenovo in a 
Transaction Document. 
2.6 
For any Program that Lenovo provides to Customer in tangible form, Lenovo fulfils its shipping and delivery 
obligations upon the delivery of the Program to the Lenovo-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in 
writing by Customer and Lenovo. 
3 
Prices, Payment and Taxes 
3.1 
Prices and related costs for Products and Services shall be as set forth in Attachment B “Pricing, Products, 
Services Descriptions and Contact Details”, or as otherwise agreed by the Parties in a Transaction Document. 
No other discounts, quantity entitlements, or promotions apply unless expressly agreed in writing by Lenovo. 
3.2 
If not paid in advance of shipment or performance, all amounts due to Lenovo on Services and Products are 
due upon receipt and not later than thirty (30) days of Lenovo’s invoice issuance date. Any amounts not 
received by Lenovo within thirty (30) days of the invoice’s issuance date shall be overdue. In the event payment 
is not received by Lenovo on or before the 30th day after the date of the invoice, then Lenovo may, in addition 
to any other remedies available at equity or in law, at its option, elect to do any one or more of the following: 
(i) charge interest on the outstanding sum from the due date (both before and after any judgment) at 1.5% per 
month until paid in full (or, if less, the maximum amount permitted by applicable laws); (ii) suspend any further 
performance hereunder until such invoice is paid in full; (iii) terminate this Agreement; and/or sell any 
undelivered Products in the open market, in which event, Customer agrees to: (a) be liable for any difference 
between the resale price obtained by Lenovo and the price thereof, as well as for costs and expenses incurred 
by Lenovo in connection with such resale, and interest as provided herein; and (b) immediately pay such 
difference to Lenovo upon demand. If Customer fails to take delivery of any Product on any scheduled delivery 
date, Lenovo shall store such Product as Customer’s agent, and Customer shall be invoiced on the 1st day of 
each month following such scheduled delivery for reasonable administration and storage costs. Customer 
shall not have any right to offset any obligation of Lenovo to Customer against any obligation of Customer to 
Lenovo.  
75 of 116

--- page 76 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 3 of 11 
 
3.3 
Each and every delivery of Products is separate, and Customer agrees not to withhold payment on any one 
delivery, including, without limitation, a partial delivery, because of a controversy relating to any other delivery 
or to any undelivered Products. In the event of delivery by installments, whether by prior agreement of the 
Parties or otherwise, delivery of one or more such installments shall not relieve Customer of its obligation to 
accept and pay for remaining installments. 
3.4 
Customer shall pay any applicable sales, use or similar taxes, fees or duties on Services and Products, unless 
Customer provides exemption documentation to Lenovo. Customer becomes responsible for taxes on (i) 
Hardware Products and Programs pre-loaded on Hardware Products from the date Lenovo has delivered them 
to the Lenovo-designated carrier for shipment to Customer, (ii) Programs from the date Lenovo has made 
them available or accessible to Customer, and (iii) Services from the date on which the Services are provided 
by Lenovo. Lenovo shall be solely responsible for paying all taxes on Lenovo’s net or gross income. 
4 
Title and Risk 
4.1 
When Customer orders any Hardware Product, Lenovo transfers title to Customer upon delivery of the 
Hardware Product at the Lenovo-designated carrier for shipment to Customer. Lenovo does not transfer title 
to any Program, which Program is solely licensed in accordance with its applicable terms and not sold. 
4.2 
For each Hardware Product supplied by it, Lenovo bears the risk of loss or damage up to the time it is delivered 
to the Lenovo-designated carrier for shipment to Customer. At no cost to Customer, each Hardware Product 
supplied by Lenovo will be covered by insurance, arranged, managed and paid for by Lenovo or one of its 
Affiliates for Customer, covering the period until the Hardware Product is delivered to Customer. For the 
avoidance of doubt, pursuant to Attachment B “Pricing, Products, Services Descriptions and Contact Details” 
Lenovo will bear freight and duty charges incurred in importing Hardware Products and delivering them to 
Customer, unless otherwise specifically agreed by Lenovo in a Transaction Document. 
5 
Warranties 
5.1 
Warranties for Lenovo Hardware Products: Lenovo warrants that each Lenovo-branded Hardware Product 
supplied under this Agreement is free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use during 
the applicable warranty period. Unless Lenovo specifies otherwise, Lenovo’s warranties for any Lenovo 
Hardware Product apply only in the country where it was acquired. Unless otherwise specified in a Transaction 
Document, the warranty period shall commence on the invoice’s issuance date. During the warranty period, 
Lenovo shall provide repair and exchange service for the Lenovo Hardware Product, without charge, under 
the type of warranty service designated by Lenovo for the Hardware Product. If a defect in materials or 
workmanship is discovered during the warranty period and Lenovo is unable either: (i) to repair the Lenovo 
Hardware Product; or (ii) to replace it with one that is at least functionally equivalent, Customer may return the 
Lenovo Hardware Product to Lenovo for a pro-rated refund. Lenovo may change components or parts of a 
Lenovo Hardware Product without notice, provided that the substituted components or parts provide equal or 
better performance. Any such change shall be at no additional cost to Customer, and will not change 
Customer’s rights under the warranty applicable to the Lenovo Hardware Product. 
5.2 
Warranty for Third Party Hardware Products: Lenovo offers no warranty in respect of Third Party Products 
under this Agreement. Where the supplier or producer of any Third Party Product offers its own warranty, and 
to the extent that Lenovo is free to do so, Lenovo will upon request endeavor to transfer associated warranty 
service and other rights to Customer, subject always to the applicable Third Party’s terms and conditions. 
5.3 
Warranty for Services: Lenovo warrants that it will perform each Service using reasonable care and skill and 
according to its current description, including any completion criteria, contained in this Agreement or a relevant 
Attachment or Transaction Document. Customer shall provide timely written notice to Lenovo of any failure to 
comply with this warranty not later than thirty (30) days after completion of the Service at issue identifying the 
failure with reasonable particularity, in order that Lenovo may take corrective action as specified in the 
following sentence. Lenovo will either correct the failure or provide a credit of the charges paid to Lenovo for 
the defective portion of the Services. Such corrective action shall be Customer’s sole remedy for a breach of 
this Section 5.3 “Warranty for Services”. 
5.4 
Warranty for Programs: Lenovo does not offer any warranty in respect of Programs under this Agreement. 
See Section 6 “Programs” of this Attachment A “General Terms” for where to locate warranty terms for 
Programs, if any. 
76 of 116

--- page 77 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 4 of 11 
 
5.5 
Specific Exclusions: The warranties in this Section 5 “Warranties” are made to and for the benefit solely of 
the specific buyer  under this Agreement and are non-transferable. The warranties stated in this Section 5 
“Warranties” shall not apply to any Lenovo Hardware Product: (i) that: (a) has been subjected to misuse, 
accident, unauthorized modification, improper installation, damage or mishandling, or rendered inoperable 
due to willful or negligent acts or omissions; (b) has been operated in an unsuitable physical or operating 
environment or contrary to the applicable documentation published by Lenovo; (c) has been subjected to 
natural disasters, power surges or discharge, or unauthorized maintenance; or (d) is incapable of being tested 
by Lenovo under its normal test conditions; or (ii) that is sold for beta, evaluation, testing or demonstration 
purposes. Lenovo shall not be liable under this Section 5 “Warranties” for claims arising from Customer’s, its 
Affiliates’ or their subcontractors’, or any unauthorized Third Party’s misuse, neglect, improper installation or 
testing, attempts to repair, or any other cause beyond the range of the intended use of the Lenovo Hardware 
Product. The Lenovo Hardware Product warranty will become void if a Hardware Product component is 
installed as an add-on to or replacement for the original Lenovo Hardware Product, without Lenovo’s prior 
written approval. Unless otherwise agreed or mandated by statute, such warranties shall not apply to: (1) any 
Third Party Hardware Product, including those that Lenovo may provide or integrate into a Lenovo Hardware 
Product at Customer’s request; or (2) any Program, whether provided with a Lenovo Hardware Product or 
installed subsequently. The warranties stated in this Section 5 “Warranties” also: (x) do not include any 
technical support, such as assistance with “how-to” questions and those regarding Lenovo Hardware Product 
set-up and installation; and (y) shall be voided by the removal or alteration of identification labels on a Lenovo 
Hardware Product or its parts. In no event shall the warranties stated in this Section 5 “Warranties” include 
any Lenovo responsibility for: (A) uninterrupted or error-free operation of any Product; (B) correction of any or 
all program or Program code defects; or (C) any loss of, or damage to, data caused by a Product. 
5.6 
General Exclusions: TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE WARRANTIES 
SET FORTH UNDER THIS SECTION 5 “WARRANTIES” ARE EXCLUSIVE AND IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR SATISFACTORY QUALITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT 
OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WHICH LENOVO HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS. 
UNLESS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY SPECIFIED, ALL SOFTWARE, MACHINE CODE, PROGRAMS, 
SERVICES, SUPPORT AND ALL THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS”, 
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, AND LENOVO MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT 
ANY PRODUCT WILL OPERATE ON AN UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE BASIS. THIRD PARTY 
MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS, DEVELOPERS, SERVICE PROVIDERS, LICENSORS OR PUBLISHERS 
MAY SEPARATELY PROVIDE THEIR OWN WARRANTIES TO CUSTOMER. 
6 
Programs 
Unless otherwise agreed in this Agreement, all terms and conditions for any Program purchased under this 
Agreement, whether Lenovo or Third Party branded, including but not limited to warranty terms, liability and 
the use of such Program will solely be governed by its own specific Lenovo or Third Party license terms, as 
separately provided to or agreed by Customer, as the case may be, before its actual use. In case, but to the 
extent only, of any conflict between any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and those of the license 
agreement for any such Program, the latter will prevail solely as regards the Program. 
7 
Specified Image 
7.1 
The Parties may agree that Lenovo will install a specific “system image” consisting of a specified set of 
Customer-selected Programs and modules (a “Specified Image”) requested and provided by Customer onto 
a Lenovo Hardware Product supplied under this Agreement. 
7.2 
Unless specifically agreed otherwise in writing: (a) Lenovo will act as Customer’s agent when installing 
Specified Images; (b) Lenovo’s warranty and other Hardware Product-related obligations, including without 
limitation regarding technical performance, interoperability and Third Party rights compliance, shall be limited 
to Lenovo Hardware Products in their unmodified state; and (c) Lenovo shall only be liable to provide Hardware 
Product warranty service to Customer for any Lenovo Hardware Product on which a Specified Image is 
installed to the extent that the fault reported by Customer can be recreated on the Hardware Product in its 
standard, unmodified state. Any faults should be reported to Lenovo in writing by Customer not later than 
ninety (90) days following delivery of the Lenovo Hardware Product to Lenovo’s designated carrier, or the 
faults will be considered waived. 
77 of 116

--- page 78 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 5 of 11 
 
8 
Licenses for Machine Code 
Customer acknowledges that each Machine contains Machine Code. Regardless of the source from which 
Customer acquires a Machine, the Machine Code shall be subject to the terms of the license agreement 
included with the relevant Machine. Customer’s use of Machine Code on a Machine is governed by the terms 
of the applicable Lenovo License Agreement which is available on or through Lenovo’s support website at 
https://support.lenovo.com/, or otherwise will be provided upon request. 
9 
Confidentiality 
9.1 
Any non-public information which is received under this Agreement by one Party from the other and which is 
clearly marked as “confidential” (“Confidential Information”) shall be (i) maintained in confidence during the 
term of this Agreement and for two (2) years following termination or expiration of this Agreement (or, if it is 
Confidential Information additionally marked as and comprising a “trade secret,” for so long as it remains a 
trade secret under applicable law), (ii) used only for the purpose of fulfilment of the receiving Party’s obligations 
under this Agreement, and (iii) protected during such periods against unauthorized disclosure by the receiving 
Party, except for the following permitted disclosures: (a) disclosure to the receiving Party’s Affiliates, 
employees and contractors with a business “need to know” for the exercise of the receiving Party’s rights or 
fulfilment of its obligations under this Agreement, provided that such further recipients are also obligated by 
the receiving Party to protect the Confidential Information to the same extent as the receiving Party under this 
Section 9 “Confidentiality” and (b) disclosure with the prior written consent of the disclosing Party. Further, the 
receiving Party is permitted to disclose any protected Confidential Information of the disclosing Party, to the 
extent required by law, on condition that in any such case the receiving Party promptly notifies the discloser 
(to the extent not prohibited by applicable law), to allow the disclosing Party a reasonable opportunity to seek 
a protective order. Confidential Information is provided with no warranty, and without liability as to its accuracy 
or completeness. Confidential Information disclosed to a third party, notwithstanding a valid consent provided 
under this Agreement or in the event of an unauthorized disclosure, remains Confidential Information under 
this Section 9 “Confidentiality”. The terms of this Agreement are the Confidential Information of Lenovo. 
9.2 
Information shall not be considered “Confidential Information” under this Section 9 “Confidentiality”, and the 
receiving Party is free to disclose it, if: (i) the information was already in the recipient’s possession without 
obligation of confidentiality at the time of its receipt from the receiving Party; (ii) the information was 
independently developed by the receiving Party without use of the Confidential Information of the disclosing 
Party; (iii) the information was obtained from a third party without obligation of confidentiality to the disclosing 
Party; (iv) the information was or becomes publicly available through no breach of this Agreement by the 
receiving Party or its Affiliates, employees and contractors; or (v) the disclosing Party reveals the information 
to a third party without imposing an obligation of confidentiality on the third party. 
9.3 
The terms of this Section 9 “Confidentiality” supersede and replace the terms of any confidentiality or non-
disclosure agreement entered into by and between the Parties prior to the Effective Date (an “NDA”), provided 
however that any such NDA shall remain effective in accordance with its terms with respect to any confidential 
information disclosed under it by the Parties prior to the Effective Date. 
10 
Personal Information 
10.1 
Lenovo will collect, access, retain and, as appropriate, share (collectively “Process”) the names and contact 
information of Customer, as well as machine types and serial numbers of the Products sold to Customer 
(collectively “Personal Information”). This Personal Information will be Processed by Lenovo in order to 
perform the obligations of this Agreement, including contractual warranties.  
10.2 
Lenovo will Process Personal Information of Customer consistent with its general website and product privacy 
statements available at https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/privacy/ and/or, as applicable, privacy statements 
designed for a specific Lenovo Product or Service. 
10.3 
To perform its obligations pursuant to this Agreement in relation to the Products and Services, Lenovo may 
transfer Personal Information (i) from any country to any other country in the world where Lenovo and its 
Enterprise operate, and (ii) to Lenovo’s Enterprise and Lenovo Service Providers acting on Lenovo’s behalf in 
relation to this Agreement and/or the Products or Services.  
78 of 116

--- page 79 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 6 of 11 
 
10.4 
Lenovo and Customer will comply with all data privacy or data protection laws applicable to their Processing 
of Personal Information pursuant to this Agreement.  
10.5 
Lenovo and Customer will have appropriate technical and organizational security measures in place to protect 
Personal Information from unauthorized access, use, or release. 
10.6 
If Customer accesses any Personal Information directly from a Lenovo order visibility platform or other data 
system, Customer (i) shall have in place appropriate administrative, physical, and technical controls to address 
threats to the confidentiality and security of Lenovo’s platform or data system and associated information and 
(ii) shall not transfer across international borders any Personal Information it receives from Lenovo without 
Lenovo’s express prior written consent. 
10.7 
Lenovo and Customer agree to cooperate as needed to address any actual or suspected Personal Information 
incident that may occur within the scope of this Agreement, including actual or suspected breaches of Personal 
Information, and to take any necessary steps to investigate, address, remediate and/or mitigate such incidents. 
10.8 
Furthermore, Lenovo and Customer agree to appropriately respond to any individual’s requests to review, 
correct, amend or delete his or her Personal Information Processed within the scope of this Agreement. 
11 
Additional Customer Responsibilities 
11.1 
As may be reasonably required by Lenovo, Customer shall provide Lenovo with sufficient and safe access 
(including remote access authorized by Customer) to Customer’s facilities, systems, information, personnel, 
and resources, all at no charge to Lenovo. Lenovo shall not be responsible for any delay in performing or 
failure to perform caused by Customer’s delay in providing such access or performing other Customer 
responsibilities under this Agreement. 
11.2 
If Customer is making any facilities, software, hardware or other resources available to Lenovo in connection 
with this Agreement: (i) Customer shall obtain any Third Party approvals, consents, licenses or permissions 
related to these resources that may be necessary for Lenovo, or its Affiliates, and/or Lenovo Partners to 
perform the Services; (ii) Lenovo shall be relieved of any obligation that is adversely affected by Customer’s 
failure promptly to obtain any of the foregoing; and (iii) Customer shall reimburse Lenovo for any costs and 
other amounts that Lenovo may incur related to Customer’s failure to obtain any of the foregoing. 
11.3 
Customer will at all times remain responsible for: (i) the implementation and management of its own data 
backup and recovery arrangements for any data stored on Customer’s Hardware Products. 
11.4 
Unless otherwise agreed in an Attachment or a Transaction Document, Customer is responsible for: (i) any 
data, and the content of any database stored on the Hardware Products or that it makes available to Lenovo 
in connection with this Agreement; and (ii) the selection and implementation of procedures and controls 
regarding access to its data, and the security, encryption, protection from unauthorized use, and transmission 
of data. Lenovo’s responsibilities regarding any such data or database, including any obligations related to 
data subjects’ rights or the confidentiality and security of the data, will be governed by the specific Transaction 
Document applicable to the particular Service transactions, which are subject to the provision of Section 17 
“Limitation of Liability” of this Attachment A “General Terms” and other terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
12 
Returns 
If for any reason, whether based on applicable law or on a specific contractual provision under this Agreement, 
Customer is entitled to return a Hardware Product to Lenovo, Customer is responsible, before returning the 
Hardware Product for: (i) resetting the system to its original factory settings as provided by Lenovo to 
Customer; (ii) ensuring that such Hardware Product is entirely free of any Customer or Third Party security 
interest or deposit; and (iii) securely erasing any Customer or Third Party personal and other data stored on 
the Hardware Product. If Customer fails to do so, Lenovo shall be entitled to erase all such stored data. Lenovo 
is not responsible to maintain any program or other data stored in or on any returned Hardware Product and 
shall not be liable for any such data. Lenovo may operate disposal procedures according to Lenovo defined 
processes and in accordance with applicable laws. In any event, Customer shall not return any Hardware 
Products to Lenovo unless Customer has obtained a returned goods authorization from Lenovo for the 
applicable Hardware Products, and otherwise complies with the return policy of Lenovo then in effect. 
79 of 116

--- page 80 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 7 of 11 
 
 
Customer may return a new, standard Product that is still in its sealed, unopened package, to Lenovo for any 
reason within twenty-one (21) days of the date of invoice for a refund or credit.  Customers may only return 
the entire Product or all such Products for a refund or credit.  Partial refunds or credits for Products that are 
not standard; or Products configured to Customer’s requirements, including installation of software Product 
options; or quantities of Products that are not separately priced, are not available to Customers.  In order to 
receive a credit or refund, Customer must contact its Lenovo Customer Support Representative to obtain a 
return-authorization form. Customer must return the new Product, including all documentation and 
accessories, intact and in its unopened original packaging to the location and by the date specified by Lenovo.  
A copy of the invoice, the return-authorization form, and the shipping label must accompany the returned 
Product.  Shipping and handling charges will not be refunded or credited to Customer.  Products returned 
without a Lenovo return-authorization form, or returned after the date specified by Lenovo, may be subject to 
a restocking fee in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the price paid.   
Customer agrees to pay the restocking fee if charged by Lenovo.  A refund or credit is not available for the 
return of Products which are not generally available to customers and for which Lenovo created a unique 
machine type model (MTM) or a part number.  Returns of Products shipped as a result of a Lenovo error will 
be accepted by Lenovo.  Lenovo will initiate a return of such Products with appropriate documentation at no 
charge to Customer if Lenovo is notified of the error within twenty one (21) days of the date of the invoice.  If 
Customer acquired a software Product separate from a hardware Product, and paid a software license fee, 
but does not agree to the terms of the license, Customer may return the software Product within twenty one 
(21) days of the date of invoice and receive a refund or credit in the amount of the fee.  
13 
Export Regulations 
Any use, export, re-export, or transfer in-country, either directly or indirectly, of Products and technical data 
supplied by Lenovo under this Agreement is subject to applicable export laws and regulations, including 
without limitation those of the United States and the European Union. Customer is responsible for compliance 
with all applicable export laws and regulations when using, exporting, re-exporting, or transferring in-country, 
directly or indirectly, any such Product or technical data. Customer shall defend, indemnify and hold Lenovo 
and its Affiliates harmless from any claim, damage, liability or expense (including but not limited to reasonable 
attorneys’ fees, costs of investigation, and costs of defense) arising out of or in connection with any violation 
of this Section 13 “Export Regulations”. 
This Agreement shall immediately terminate in the event Customer is listed as a restricted party on any 
sanctions list including, but not limited to, the United Nations Sanctions List, United States Treasury 
Department’s Office of Foreign Asset Control Specially Designated National List; and the United States 
Department of Commerce’s Denied Parties List, Entity List, or Unverified List. Lenovo shall have no further 
obligations under this Agreement until Customer is no longer designated a restricted party. 
14 
Force Majeure 
Except for payment obligations, neither Party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay in the 
performance of its obligations, to the extent such failure or delay is caused by: fire, flood, earthquakes, or 
other elements of nature; acts of war; terrorism, riots, strikes, labor stoppages, civil disorders, rebellions or 
revolutions; epidemics, communication line or power failures; governmental laws, court orders or regulations; 
or any other cause beyond its reasonable control. 
15 
Intellectual Property Rights 
15.1 
Lenovo and its suppliers retain ownership of all their pre-existing intellectual property as well as intellectual 
property rights that were developed outside of this Agreement and any modifications or enhancements of such 
intellectual property that may be made under this Agreement. To the extent they are embedded in any 
Materials, such intellectual property is licensed in accordance with their separate licenses provided to or 
agreed with Customer. 
15.2 
Lenovo and its suppliers shall own all intellectual property rights in Materials created as part of a Services 
transaction. Lenovo grants Customer an irrevocable, nonexclusive, worldwide, paid-up license to use, 
execute, reproduce, display, perform and distribute copies of these Materials only to Customer’s Affiliates. 
80 of 116

--- page 81 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 8 of 11 
 
15.3 
Each Party agrees to reproduce the copyright notice and any other legend of ownership on any copies made 
under the licenses granted in this Section 15 “Intellectual Property Rights”. 
15.4 
Each Party grants the other only the licenses and rights expressly specified in this Agreement. Unless agreed 
by the Parties in a separate license agreement, no other licenses or rights to Products (including licenses or 
rights under any patent, copyright, trademark or any other intellectual property right) are granted either directly, 
by implication, or otherwise by either Party. 
15.5 
The rights and licenses granted to Customer under this Agreement may be terminated by Lenovo if Customer 
fails to fulfil its applicable payment obligations. 
15.6 
Unless otherwise agreed, neither Party grants the other the right to use its or any of its Affiliates’ trademarks, 
trade names, logos or other designations in any promotion or publication without prior written consent. 
16 
Intellectual Property Indemnification 
16.1 
If a Third Party files a lawsuit against Customer claiming that a Lenovo-branded Product infringes that party’s 
patents or copyrights (hereinafter referred to as a “Claim”) for the purposes of this Section 16 “Intellectual 
Property Indemnification”, Lenovo will indemnify Customer against that Claim at Lenovo’s expense. At 
Lenovo’s option, Lenovo may also defend Customer against that Claim at Lenovo’s expense. 
16.2 
Lenovo’s obligations under this Section are conditioned on the following: (1) Customer promptly notifies 
Lenovo in writing of the Claim; (2) if Lenovo elects to defend, Lenovo will solely control the conduct of the 
defense and any settlement of the Claim and Customer must fully and timely cooperate with Lenovo and 
provide Lenovo with all reasonably requested authority, information and assistance in connection with defense 
of the Claim; and (3) Customer is and remains in compliance with the terms of this Agreement, including 
Customer's obligations under this Section 16 “Intellectual Property Indemnification”. Lenovo will not be 
responsible for any costs, expenses or compromise incurred or made by Customer without Lenovo’s prior 
written consent.  
16.3 
If such a Claim is made or appears likely to be made, and Customer maintains an inventory of Products, 
Customer shall permit Lenovo, in Lenovo’s sole discretion, to: (1) enable Customer to continue to use and sell 
the Products; (2) modify the Products so that they are non-infringing; (3) replace the Products with non-
infringing, functionally-equivalent products; or (4) provide a credit to Customer equal to the net book value of 
any Products that Customer promptly returns to Lenovo at its written request. 
16.4 
Lenovo shall have no obligation regarding any Claim based on: (1) anything Customer or a Third Party on 
Customer's behalf provides which is incorporated into, or combined with a Product; (2) modification of a 
Product by Customer or a Third Party on Customer's behalf; (3) the combination, operation, or use of a Product 
with any products not provided by Lenovo as a system, or the combination, operation, or use of a Product with 
any product, data, apparatus or business method that Lenovo did not provide; (4) Lenovo’s compliance with 
Customer’s specifications or requirements; or (5) infringement by a Third Party product alone and used by 
Customer, as opposed to its combination with Products; or (6) any standard essential patent ((1) through (6) 
are collectively the “Customer Obligations”). Customer will defend and indemnify Lenovo for all costs and 
damages arising from infringement claims against Lenovo based upon the Customer Obligations  provided 
that (a) Lenovo promptly notifies Customer in writing of such claim; (b) Customer will solely control the conduct 
of the defense and any settlement of such claim and Lenovo must fully and timely cooperate with Customer 
and provide Customer with all reasonably requested authority, information and assistance in connection with 
defense of the claim; and (c) no settlement of such claim shall be made without Lenovo’s prior written consent 
if the settlement would result in a payment from Lenovo or in any ongoing obligation or restriction on Lenovo 
or a Product.  
16.5 
The foregoing is Lenovo’s entire obligation to Customer, and Customer’s exclusive remedy, regarding any 
Claim. 
17 
Limitation of Liability 
17.1 
Except as expressly stated in this Agreement, neither Enterprise shall be liable to the other Enterprise for any 
of the following even if informed of their possibility or foreseeable and whether the claim arises in contract, tort 
(including gross negligence where legally permissible), or otherwise: (1) third-party claims for damages; (2) 
81 of 116

--- page 82 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 9 of 11 
 
loss of, or damage to, data; (3) special, incidental, indirect, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages; 
(4) loss of profits, business, revenue, goodwill or anticipated savings; (5) loss of use; or (6) wasted 
management time.  
17.2 
The maximum cumulative liability of either Enterprise to the other Enterprise for all actions arising out of or 
related to this Agreement and all orders issued hereunder, regardless of the form of the action or the theory 
of recovery, shall be limited to actual direct damages, not to exceed the total amount paid or payable by 
Customer and the Enterprise of which it is a part to Lenovo and the Enterprise of which it is a part for all orders 
issued under this Agreement. 
17.3 
The provisions of Sections 17.1 and 17.2 of this Attachment A “General Terms” shall also limit the liability of 
Lenovo, its subcontractors, suppliers and program developers, collectively, to Customer and the Enterprise of 
which it is a part. 
17.4 
The provisions of Sections 17.1 and 17.2 of this Attachment A “General Terms” shall not apply to either Party’s 
obligations under Sections 16 “Intellectual Property Indemnification” of this Attachment A “General Terms”. 
17.5 
The provisions of this Section 17 “Limitation of Liability” shall not apply to the extent prevented or restricted 
by mandatory applicable law (including without limitation in relation to fraud) that cannot be amended or 
excluded by contractual waiver. 
18 
Entire Agreement and Conflicts 
18.1 
This Agreement, including the Attachments described on the cover page, any Transaction Documents 
hereunder, and any other referenced terms and conditions incorporated herein form the entire Agreement of 
the Parties with respect to the subject-matter of this Agreement, and together replace any prior or 
contemporaneous agreements, understandings, communications, representations, undertakings, warranties, 
promises, covenants, and commitments, whether oral or written, between the Parties regarding the subject-
matter of this Agreement. 
18.2 
Unless otherwise agreed herein or otherwise, additional or different terms, Product descriptions, statements 
of work or similar Transaction Documents shall only become part of this Agreement if agreed in a signed 
written document executed by the Parties, in particular where the provisions of this Agreement are 
incorporated or referenced. Additional or different terms in any other written communication without the written 
consent of Lenovo, such as on a purchase order, are void. 
18.3 
In the event, but only to the extent, of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement, and those of any 
of its Attachments or any other document incorporated into this Agreement, the following order of precedence 
shall apply: 
(1) 
any subsequent Transaction Document created under, and referring to, this Agreement shall prevail 
as to the specific Products or Services referenced therein; provided that, to the extent there is any 
conflict among Transaction Documents, the most recently executed Transaction Document will 
prevail over any other previously executed Transaction Documents; 
(2) 
any Attachment to this Agreement; 
(3) 
these General Terms. 
19 
Term and Termination 
19.1 
The term of this Agreement shall begin on xx/xx/xxxx Date and continue for three (3) years with option to 
renew for up to five (5) additional one-year terms or any combination of time equally not more than 5 years if 
agreed to by Region 14 ESC and the vendor.  
19.2 
Either Party may terminate this Agreement early without cause upon thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to the 
other Party. Either Party may terminate this Agreement early if the other Party, materially breaches the terms 
of this Agreement; provided the Party alleged not to be in compliance is given written notice of the non-
compliance and not less than thirty (30) days to cure, except in the event of a non-payment in which case only 
82 of 116

--- page 83 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 10 of 11 
 
ten (10) days to cure shall be required. Any transaction validly initiated under this Agreement shall remain 
governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement until completion, notwithstanding any early 
termination of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing. 
19.3 
Any terms of this Agreement which expressly or by their nature survive the expiration or termination of this 
Agreement, including but not limited to Section 15 “Intellectual Property Rights” and Section 17 “Limitation of 
Liability” of this Attachment A “General Terms”, shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. 
20 
Assignment 
Neither Party may assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the other 
Party. Neither Party shall unreasonably withhold, condition or delay such consent. The assignment of this 
Agreement, in whole or in part by either Party to any of its Affiliates, or to a successor organization by merger 
or acquisition, does not require the consent of the other Party unless the proposed assignee of Customer is a 
competitor of Lenovo. Lenovo may assign its rights to receive payments under this Agreement without 
Customer’s consent. 
21 
Governing Law and Venue 
This Agreement and all orders issued hereunder will be governed under the laws of the State of New York, 
without regard to its conflict of law principles.  Neither party may bring an action arising out of or related to this 
Agreement more than two (2) years after the cause of action arose. 
22 
Miscellaneous 
22.1 
The Parties shall endeavor in good faith to amicably resolve any dispute arising out of or in connection with 
this Agreement and will cooperate to escalate any disputes to their management teams, as appropriate.  
22.2 
Customer may not bring an action arising out of or related to this Agreement more than one (1) year after the 
cause of action arose. The rights and obligations of each Party are valid only in the jurisdiction in which the 
transaction is performed or, if Lenovo agrees, where the Product is placed in productive use, except that all 
licenses are valid as specifically granted. Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers 
that cannot be waived or limited by contract. 
22.3 
Unless otherwise agreed in writing in advance by Lenovo under a Transaction Document, Products are sold 
under this Agreement for Customer’s own use and not for onward resale, lease or rental, other than to an 
Affiliate of Customer. If Customer sells, leases or rents Products or Services purchased from Lenovo in 
competition with Lenovo resellers, Lenovo may terminate this Agreement and any open transactions 
hereunder with immediate effect and discontinue further sales to Customer. 
22.4 
Notices and other written communications are to be sent to the physical, e-mail or facsimile address specified 
in an applicable Attachment or Transaction Document. Electronic mail can be used to send and receive 
communications in connection with this Agreement. All such communications shall be considered a signed 
writing. An identification code or “user ID” contained in an electronic document shall be sufficient to verify the 
sender’s identity and the document’s authenticity. 
22.5 
The Parties are independent contractors. Neither this Agreement nor any transaction hereunder shall create 
the relationships of principal and agent, joint venturers, partners, or employer or employee as between 
Customer and Lenovo or their respective Affiliates. 
22.6 
Each Party shall assign personnel that are reasonably qualified to perform the tasks required of it under this 
Agreement, and shall be solely responsible for the supervision, direction, control, and compensation of its 
personnel. Subject to the foregoing, the Parties and their relevant Affiliates may in their sole discretion 
determine the assignment of their personnel and contractors. Lenovo may delegate any of its rights and 
obligations under this Agreement to an Affiliate. Lenovo may engage subcontractors to perform this 
Agreement; provided that Lenovo shall be responsible for the performance of Services under this Agreement 
by its subcontractors. 
83 of 116

--- page 84 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement  
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment A - Page 11 of 11 
 
22.7 
Either Party may enter into similar agreements with others to develop, acquire, or provide competitive products 
and services. 
22.8 
No Third Party beneficiaries are intended to this Agreement. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law: 
(i) no right or cause of action arises or is created, irrespective of whether in contract, tort, under the law or 
otherwise, in favor of any Third Party under this Agreement or any transaction hereunder; and (ii) no Third 
Party shall have any right to enforce any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or of any agreement 
associated with any transaction hereunder, except that Lenovo’s suppliers may avail themselves of Section 
17 “Limitation of Liability” of this Attachment A “General Terms”. 
22.9 
Customer is responsible for selecting the Products and Services that meet its needs and for the results 
obtained from the use of the Products and Services, including Customer’s decision to implement any 
recommendation concerning Customer’s business practices and operations. Customer may not and shall not 
rely on Lenovo for any of the foregoing. 
22.10 
Where approval, acceptance, consent or similar action by Customer is required under this Agreement, such 
action will not be unreasonably delayed, conditioned or withheld. 
22.11 
The English versions of this Agreement and the Transaction Documents, regardless of whether a translation 
in any other language is or shall be made, shall be the only authentic ones. Any translation of this Agreement 
or a Transaction Document in another language prepared for any reason shall be a non-binding 
accommodation of no legal effect, and the English version of this Agreement or a Transaction Document, 
including any amendments thereto, shall govern. 
22.12 
Except as set forth in Section 3 of Attachment B “Pricing, Products, Service Descriptions and Contact Details”, 
this Agreement may be amended solely by a writing signed by both Parties 
23 
Lenovo Resellers 
Lenovo provides different ways to purchase Products and Services, depending on the region and/or choice of 
Customer: “Direct” purchase means that the Product or Service is available for purchase directly from Lenovo 
and subject to this Agreement; and “Indirect” purchase means that the Product or Service is available for 
purchase from a Lenovo reseller. Indirect purchase of Products or Services from a reseller shall be subject to 
such terms and conditions, as well as prices, as Customer and reseller may agree. Lenovo shall not be 
responsible for: (i) the actions of any such reseller; (ii) any obligation that such reseller may have to Customer; 
or (iii) any Third Party product or service that such reseller may supply to Customer. 
[End of Attachment A] 
84 of 116

--- page 85 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment B - Page 1 of 2 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
Pricing, Products, Services Descriptions and Contact Details 
1 
Pricing, Products and Services 
1.1 
Customer is not committing to minimum purchase volumes or order quantities with Lenovo. 
1.2 
Lenovo makes Products and Services descriptions available to Customer for purchase through a “Customer 
Product Catalog” or any other Transaction Document or via a website, as agreed by the Parties, at the then 
current agreed Prices. Prices for additional Services will be agreed subsequently (except for warranty services 
chargeable at Lenovo’s then-current rates) and set forth in a separate Transaction Document. 
1.3 
Prices do not include local taxes, Value Added Tax, Goods & Services Tax or tariffs. 
1.4 
Unless agreed otherwise, international freight, duties and insurance are included in the Prices, with the 
exception of some countries which shall be communicated to Customer in advance. Transportation or delivery 
charges, if applicable, will be specified in a Transaction Document. 
2 
Changes 
2.1 
Unless a specific period for the validity of Prices has been agreed in writing between the Parties in a 
Transaction Document, Lenovo may change Prices, including labor rates, for Products and Services and other 
financial terms under this Agreement by providing Customer at least one (1) month prior written notice, e.g., 
to reflect a price increase in raw materials or in Product components. However, no such change shall be 
retroactive. Any such change shall be effective on the date specified in the notice. It shall only apply to new 
orders, on-going transactions of indefinite duration, and transactions with a defined recurring period. For 
transactions with a defined recurring period, Customer may request in writing that Lenovo delay the effective 
date of the change to after the end of the current recurring period. 
2.2 
Unless otherwise agreed, Customer acknowledges its agreement to have all such changes apply for such 
transactions: (i) by placing new orders for Products or Services after the effective date of the change; (ii) in 
the absence of a request that the effective date of the change be delayed until the end of the recurring period; 
(iii) by allowing transactions to recur or proceed after receipt of the change notice; or (iv) in the absence of 
notice of termination of transactions of indefinite duration prior to the effective date of the change. Except as 
provided above, in order for a change to be valid, it must be signed by both Parties. 
2.3 
The previous paragraph notwithstanding, if the cost on the international market of any Product component 
rises so significantly that it would not be commercially viable for Lenovo to be obliged to continue to allow 
Customer to buy the affected Products at the previously agreed Prices or discounts, Customer accepts that: 
(i) upon having appropriately demonstrated such worldwide component cost increase, Lenovo may raise the 
Price of (or lower the discounts for) its affected Products proportionally in order to compensate for such cost 
increase; or (ii) if Customer refuses such price increase or discount reduction, Lenovo may temporarily refuse 
to accept Customer’s orders for the affected Products until the overall cost of components has returned to 
levels in line with those which applied when this Agreement was first signed. 
3 
Combination of Prices and Discounts 
Prices or discounts may not be combined with any other discounts or promotions, unless approved by Lenovo. 
4 
Contact Details 
Customer 
Lenovo 
 
Attention: BUSINESS UNIT  
Tel.: XXXX  
Fax: XXXX  
General E-mail address: XXXX 
 
Attention: Lance Couch 
Tel.: 281-712-2155 
General E-mail address: lcouch@lenovo.com 
 
 
85 of 116

--- page 86 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment B - Page 2 of 2 
 
5 
Product Catalog 
The “Product Catalog” may be updated from time to time. 
[End of Attachment B] 
86 of 116

--- page 87 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment C - Page 1 of 3 
 
ATTACHMENT C 
Warranty Service Information (Personal Computers) 
 
1 
General  
If a defect in material or workmanship is discovered in a Lenovo branded Hardware Product during the warranty 
period, warranty Service may be obtained by contacting Lenovo or a Lenovo-approved Service provider 
(“Service Provider”). Repair, correction and replacement in the manner described below shall constitute 
fulfilment of all of Lenovo’s obligations under the Lenovo Limited Warranty. A list of Service Providers and their 
telephone numbers is available through www.lenovo.com/support/phone.  
Warranty service may not be available in all locations and may differ from location to location. Charges may 
apply outside a Service Provider’s normal Service area. Contact a local Service Provider for information specific 
to Customer’s location. 
 
2 
Customer Responsibilities for Warranty Service 
Before warranty Service is provided, Customer must take the following steps:  
 
• 
follow the Service request procedures specified by the Service Provider; 
• 
backup or secure all programs and data contained in the Product;  
• 
authorize the Service Provider to access the systems and system relevant data necessary to provide 
warranty Services under this Agreement;  
• 
provide the Service Provider with sufficient, free, and safe access to Customer facilities to perform Service;  
• 
remove all data, including confidential information, proprietary information and personal information, from 
the Hardware Product or, if Customer is unable to remove any such information, modify the information to 
prevent its access by another party or so that it is not personal data under applicable law. The Service 
Provider shall not be responsible for the unintentional loss or disclosure of any data, including confidential 
information, proprietary information, or personal information, on a Hardware Product returned or accessed 
for warranty service; 
• 
remove all features, parts, options, alterations, and attachments not covered by the warranty; 
• 
ensure that the Hardware Product or part is free of any legal restrictions that prevent its replacement; 
• 
if Customer is not the owner of a Hardware Product or part, obtain authorization from the owner for the 
Service Provider to provide warranty Service.  
 
3 
What the Service Provider Will Do to Correct Problems 
When Customer contacts a Service Provider, Customer must follow the specified problem determination and 
resolution procedures.  
The Service Provider will attempt to diagnose and resolve the problem by telephone, e-mail or remote 
assistance. The Service Provider may direct Customer to download and install designated software updates. 
Some problems may be resolved with a replacement part to be installed by Customer called a “Customer 
Replaceable Unit” (“CRU”). If so, the Service Provider will ship the CRU to Customer for installation.  
If the problem cannot be resolved over the telephone; through the application of software updates or the 
installation of a CRU, the Service Provider will arrange for service under the Type of Warranty Service 
designated for the Hardware Product as specified in the table below.    
 
If the Service Provider determines that it is unable to repair the Hardware Product, the Service Provider will 
replace it with one that is at least functionally equivalent.  
 
If the Service Provider determines that it is unable to either repair or replace the Hardware Product, Customer’s 
sole remedy under this Limited Warranty is to return the Hardware Product to the place of purchase or to Lenovo 
for a prorated refund of the purchase Price (unless the Customer is entitled to a complete refund under applicable 
mandatory law).  
 
87 of 116

--- page 88 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment C - Page 2 of 3 
 
4 
Replacement Products and Parts 
When warranty Service involves the replacement of a Hardware Product or part, the replaced Hardware Product 
or part becomes Lenovo’s property and the replacement Hardware Product or part becomes Customer’s 
property. Only unaltered Lenovo Hardware Products and parts are eligible for replacement. The replacement 
Hardware Product or part provided by Lenovo may not be new, but it will be in good working order and at least 
functionally equivalent to the original Hardware Product or part. The replacement Hardware Product or part shall 
be warranted for the balance of the warranty period remaining on the original Hardware Product.  
 
5 
What this Warranty Does not Cover 
This warranty does not cover the following:  
 
• 
uninterrupted or error-free operation of a Hardware Product; 
• 
loss of, or damage to, Customer data by a Hardware Product; 
• 
any software programs, whether provided with the Hardware Product or installed subsequently; 
• 
failure or damage resulting from misuse, abuse, accident, modification, unsuitable physical or operating 
environment, natural disasters, power surges, improper maintenance, or use not in accordance with the 
Hardware Product information materials; 
• 
damage caused by a non-authorized Service provider; 
• 
failure of, or damage caused by, any Third Party products, including those that Lenovo may provide or 
integrate into the Lenovo Hardware Product at Customer’s request; 
• 
any technical or other support, such as assistance with “how-to” questions and those regarding a Product 
set-up and installation; and 
• 
Hardware Products or parts with an altered identification label or from which the identification label has been 
removed. 
If required, the Service Provider will provide repair or exchange Service depending on the type of warranty 
Service specified for the Hardware Product and the available service. Scheduling of Service will depend upon 
the time of Customer’s call, parts availability, and other factors.  
 
6 
Types of Warranty Service 
6.1 
Customer Replaceable Unit (CRU) Service 
Under “CRU Service”, a Service Provider will ship CRUs to Customer for installation by Customer. CRU 
information and replacement instructions are shipped with the Hardware Product and are available from Lenovo 
at any time upon request. CRUs that are easily installed by Customer are called “Self-Service CRUs”. “Optional-
Service CRUs” are CRUs that may require some technical skills and tools. Installation of Self-Service CRUs is 
Customer’s responsibility. Customer may request that a Service Provider install Optional-Service CRUs under 
one of the other types of warranty Service designated for the Hardware Product. An optional Service offering 
may be available for purchase from a Service Provider or Lenovo under which Self-Service CRUs would be 
installed for Customer. Customer may find a list of CRUs and their designation in the publication that ships with 
the Hardware Product or at www.lenovo.com/CRUs. The requirement to return a defective CRU, if any, will be 
specified in the materials shipped with a replacement CRU. When return is required: (1) return instructions, a 
prepaid return shipping label, and a container will be included with the replacement CRU; and (2) Customer may 
be charged for the replacement CRU if the Service Provider does not receive the defective CRU within thirty 
(30) days of Customer’s receipt of the replacement CRU.  
6.2 
On-Site Service 
Under “On-Site Service”, a Service Provider will, at its discretion, either repair or exchange the Hardware 
Product at Customer’s location. Customer must provide a suitable working area to allow disassembly and 
reassembly of the Hardware Product. Some repairs may need to be completed at a Service center. If so, the 
Service Provider will send the Hardware Product to the Service center at its expense. 
6.3 
Courier or Depot Service 
Under “Courier or Depot Service”, the Hardware Product will be repaired or exchanged at a designated Service 
center, with shipping at the expense of the Service Provider. Customer is responsible for disconnecting the 
Hardware Product and packing it in a shipping container provided to Customer for return of the Hardware Product 
to a designated Service center. A courier will pick up the Hardware Product and deliver it to the designated 
Service center. The Service center will return the Hardware Product to Customer at its expense.  
88 of 116

--- page 89 ---
Lenovo Customer Agreement  
 
COE-00003-01 Lenovo Customer Agreement 
04.2022 
 
Lenovo Confidential 
Attachment C - Page 3 of 3 
 
6.4 
Customer Carry-In Service 
Under “Customer Carry-In Service”, the Hardware Product will be repaired or exchanged after Customer 
delivers it to a designated Service center at Customer’s risk and expense. After the Hardware Product has been 
repaired or exchanged, it will be made available for collection by Customer. Failure to collect the Hardware 
Product may result in the Service Provider disposing of the Hardware Product as it sees fit, with no liability to 
Customer.  
6.5 
Mail-In Service 
Under “Mail-In Service”, the Hardware Product will be repaired or exchanged at a designated Service center 
after Customer delivers it at Customer’s risk and expense. After the Hardware Product has been repaired or 
exchanged, it will be returned to Customer at Lenovo's risk and expense, unless the Service Provider specifies 
otherwise.  
6.6 
Customer Two-Way Mail-In Service 
Under “Customer Two-Way Mail-In Service”, the Hardware Product will be repaired or exchanged after 
Customer delivers it to a designated Service center at Customer’s risk and expense. After the Hardware Product 
has been repaired or exchanged, it will be made available to Customer for return shipping at Customer’s risk 
and expense. If Customer fails to arrange return shipment, the Service Provider may dispose of the Product as 
it sees fit, with no liability to Customer. 
6.7 
Product Exchange Service 
Under “Product Exchange Service”, Lenovo will ship a replacement Hardware Product to Customer’s location. 
Customer shall be responsible for its installation and verification of its operation. The replacement Hardware 
Product becomes the property of Customer in exchange for the failed Hardware Product, which becomes the 
property of Lenovo. Customer shall pack the failed Hardware Product in the shipping carton used to ship the 
replacement Hardware Product and return it to Lenovo. Transportation charges, both ways, shall be at Lenovo’s 
expense. If Customer fails to use the carton in which the replacement Hardware Product was received, Customer 
may be responsible for any damage to the failed Hardware Product occurring during shipment. Customer may 
be charged for the replacement Hardware Product if Lenovo does not receive the failed Hardware Product within 
thirty (30) days of Customer’s receipt of the replacement Hardware Product.  
 
[End of Attachment C] 
 
 
 
 
89 of 116

--- page 90 ---
Thank you for requesting a quote from lenovo. We have included your complete quote information below. 
Please contact your Lenovo account manager to process your order and reference your quote number to 
help us serve you more quickly. 
 
Shipping address 
Billing address 
Pending order information 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 W 20TH AVE SAN MATEO CA 
94403-1338 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 W 20TH AVE SAN MATEO CA 
94403-1338 
Date and time:20.11.2023 16:04:07 
Quote number:4280373417 
Contract: CUSNP221-NCPA-01-146 
 
Qty 
Part no. 
Description 
Price 
Total 
33 
40AY0090US 
ThinkPad Universal USB-C Dock 
$ 179.00 
$ 5,907.00 
29 
63CFMAR1US 
ThinkVision T24i-30 23.8 inch Monitor 
$ 165.00 
$ 4,785.00 
29 
21HES4XV00 
ThinkPad T14 G4, Intel® Core™ 
$ 1,354.00 
i7-1360P (E-cores up to 3.70GHz, 
18MB) 14 1920 x 1200 Yes, Windows 
11 Pro 64, 16.0GB, 1x512GB SSD M.2 
2280 PCIe Gen4 Performance TLC Opal, 
Intel UHD Graphics, BT 5.1 or 
above,Wi-Fi 6E AX211, Wired Ethernet, 
720P HD RGB, 4 Cel 
$ 39,266.00 
31 
11VGS2HL00 
ThinkCentre M90a Gen3, Intel® Core™ $ 1,072.00 
i5-12400 (P-cores 2.50GHz, 18MB), 
Windows 11 Pro 64, 16.0GB, 1x512GB 
SSD M.2 2280 PCIe Gen4 TLC Opal, 
Intel® UHD Graphics 730, SATA DVD 
ROM,BT 5.1 or above,Intel® AX201 AX, 
4YR Premier NBD,Keep your Drive, USB, 
Calliope 
$ 33,232.00 
1 
12E4S2P700 
ThinkCentre M70q Gen 4, Intel® Core™$ 954.00 
i7-13700T vPro® (E-cores up to 
3.60GHz, 30MB), Windows 11 Pro 64, 
16.0GB, 1x512GB SSD M.2 2280 PCIe 
Gen4 TLC Opal, Intel® UHD Graphics 
770,BT 5.1 or above,WiFi6 AX201 2x2, 
4YR Premier NBD,Keep your Drive, USB, 
Traditio 
$ 954.00 
 
Subtotal 
$ 84,144.00 
Shipping & 
Handling 
$ 0.00 
Recycling Fee 
$ 416.00 
Taxes 
$ 8,514.86 
90 of 116

--- page 91 ---
This offer is valid for thirty(30) days from the date of this offer and supersedes any previous offers. Offer 
and specifications may be changed at any time without notice. Acceptance of this offer is subject to 
Lenovo's payments terms and availability of items. Lenovo may reject or cancel orders for pricing or other 
errors. 
We appreciate your interest in our products. 
Total 
$ 93,074.86 
91 of 116

--- page 92 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 23-8285
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Housing Element Update Consulting Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services for Housing Element Update Services 
to extend the term of the agreement from December 31, 2023 to December 31, 2024, with no change to the agreement 
compensation; and authorize the Interim Community Development Director to execute the amendment in substantially 
the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City’s Housing Element of the General Plan is required to be updated, reviewed and approved by the California 
Housing and Community Development Department (HCD) in accordance with State guidelines. Council adopted the 2023-
2031 Housing Element on January 24, 2023, and it was submitted to HCD for their review on January 27, 2023. On March 
27, 2023, HCD provided a second review letter with additional comments that needed to be addressed.  Since that time, 
the Housing Element team has working on updates to address HCD’s comments, including two study sessions with the City 
Council, multiple meetings with HCD staff and a third submittal in August 2023.  Most recently, a revised Housing Element 
was submitted to the State on November 22, 2023, and HCD has up to 60 days to review and verify that it can be certified 
or provide additional comments. 
 
On August 25, 2020, the City entered into an agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services in the amount of $129,820 
to assist staff in preparing an updated Housing Element for the State’s 6th Housing Cycle (2023-2031).  Tasks include 
supporting community outreach, assessing housing needs as well as housing characteristics and related demographics, and 
assisting in the preparation of goals, policies, and programs to address those needs. On November 15, 2021, Council 
approved Amendment No. 1 to the agreement to increase the amount of the agreement by $17,280 for a total of $147,100 
to complete additional work to related to evaluating and addressing Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) 
requirements. On March 20, 2023, the Council approved Amendment No. 2 to the agreement to extend the term of the 
agreement from March 31, 2023 to December 31, 2023. 
Due to the duration of time necessary to achieve certification of the City's 2023-2031 Housing Element, it is now 
anticipated that additional work in 2024, beyond the current term of the agreement, will be necessary.  This extension will 
allow for the consultant to provide ongoing technical support to the Housing Element Team, as needed, to get through the 
HCD review and certification process. Since there is a small gap between the term expiration date and Council review of 
the agreement, staff is seeking Council approval to extend the agreement to December 31, 2024, retroactive to December 
31, 2023. 
92 of 116

--- page 93 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact from this agreement amendment because no additional funding is being requested.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Amendment No. 3 to the agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will 
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 3
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director Community Development
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7207
93 of 116

--- page 94 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
AND DIANA R. ELROD CONSULTING SERVICES FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT 
SERVICES FOR HOUSING ELEMENT UPDATE 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services (“Consultant”), a sole proprietorship, entered 
into an Agreement for professional consultant services for the Housing Element Update 
(“Agreement”) on August 25, 2020; and
WHEREAS on November 15, 2021, the City Council approved Amendment No. 1 to the 
Agreement to increase the amount of the agreement by $17,280 for a total of $147,100 to 
complete additional work to related to evaluating and addressing Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
Housing (AFFH) requirements; and
WHEREAS, on March 31, 2023, Council approved Amendment No. 2 to extend the term of 
the Agreement to December 31, 2023 to continue work on the Housing Element certification 
process; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to extend the term of the 
Agreement to December 31, 2024 to allow for continued work on the 2023-2031 Housing 
Element certification process.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1. Amendment of Section 4 of the Agreement is amended to read:
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on August 17, 
2020 and be completed on December 31, 2024.
2. The remaining terms of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
94 of 116

--- page 95 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and DIANA R. ELROD CONSULTING SERVICES have
executed this Amendment No. 3 on 
.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Zachary Dahl
Diana R. Elrod
Interim Community Development Director
Sole Proprietor
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
95 of 116

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 23-8188
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Business License and Regulations, and Building Security Code Amendments – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Section 5.44.050(q) “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating 
Requirements” to change the lighting measurement to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements; amend Section 
23.54.005 “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent,” to remove reference to an antiquated design term, “Defensible 
Space Techniques;” and amend Section 23.54.020, “Building Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise 
Buildings” to more clearly define building heights that trigger requirements to maintain essential public safety 
communication networks.
BACKGROUND:
In an effort to update the City’s Municipal Code to ensure that it is current with changes in technology, business practices 
and concepts, and provides optimal clarity to the community on the intent of the code, updates are occasionally needed. 
Amendments to the Municipal Code require approval by the City Council.
Chapter 5 Background
Chapter 5 of the SMMC applies to massage businesses with the purpose and intent to protect the public health, safety and 
welfare by providing for the orderly regulation of businesses providing massage therapy services. SMMC Section 5.44.050 
“Massage Operating Requirements,” lays out specific operating requirements for massage businesses, with Section 
5.44.050(q) specifying the minimum amount of lighting – 40 watts -  that is required in each room or enclosure where 
massage services are being performed on clients and in all areas where clients are present. The intent for this requirement 
is to ensure proper cleanliness standards, general awareness for clients, and discourage potential criminal behavior such as 
prostitution.
Chapter 5 Proposed Amendment
The proposed amendment to SMMC Section 5.44.050 “Massage Operating Requirements,” would change the lighting 
requirement from “40 watts” to “450 lumens.” This is recommended because wattage centers on the amount of energy 
that a light source consumes, while lumens centers on the amount of actual visible light being emitted. Adopting a 
standard based on lumens would ensure that baseline visibility standards are met, shifting from an output-centered 
approach to an outcome-centered approach. It would also align with City priorities for environmental sustainability 
because improvements in lighting technology, through the use of LED lights, allow for higher levels of lumens to be 
produced while consuming lower levels of energy.
96 of 116

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The existing and proposed code language for this Section is provided in the table below.
Existing
Proposed 
Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light 
of not less than 40 watts shall be provided and shall be 
operating in each room or enclosure where massage 
services are being performed on clients, and in all areas 
where clients are present.
Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light 
of not less than 450 lumens shall be provided and shall be 
operating in each room or enclosure where massage 
services are being performed on clients, and in all areas 
where clients are present.
Chapter 23 Background
Chapter 23 of the SMMC applies to the Building and Security Code, with the purpose and intent to safeguard property and 
to promote public welfare and safety by providing security standards to be used in the design, construction, and 
maintenance of buildings and vehicles and the quality of materials used therein.
SMMC 23.54.005(b) outlines the purpose and intent of the chapter, and specifically references “Defensible Space 
Techniques,” which is an outdated principle in safety design. It originated in the 1970’s, and depended not only on 
improvements to physical space but the engaged participation of community members to maximize public safety. It has 
fallen out of usage due to mixed results in actual practice, and its teaching are no longer recommended by experts or 
utilized by city staff in public safety design review.
SMMC Section 23.54.020 lays out the requirement that new buildings of a certain height are required to provide space and 
power for the City to install essential communication equipment so that public safety and other core city services can 
effectively operate. The code specifically references that all new buildings of “five or more stories in height” shall provide 
such equipment; however, in no place does the code actually define what a building story is. This ambiguity has resulted in 
past instances of confusion and frustration with prior development projects during the review process, especially for 
developments that were only four stories tall but of a total building height to pose communication problems.
Chapter 23 Proposed Amendments
The proposed amendment to SMMC Section 23.54.005(b) would change the verbiage from “Defensible Space Techniques” 
to “and safety technologies.” This is recommended because city staff no longer incorporate Defensible Space Techniques 
principles into their design review. Instead, staff incorporate the principles of crime prevention through environmental 
design (CPTED), which is referenced, as well as safety technologies (ie: video surveillance, lighting requirements, etc).  
Adopting the proposed change would most accurately reflect long-standing practice and set expectations for those reading 
the Code. The existing and proposed new code language for this Section is provided in the table below, with the Proposed 
Ordinance as Attachment 1.
Existing and Proposed Code Language – 23.54.005(b) – Purpose and Intent
Existing – 23.54.005(b)
Proposed – 23.54.005(b)
To apply Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design 
and Defensible Space Techniques.
To apply crime prevention through environmental design 
and safety technologies.
The proposed amendment to SMMC Section 23.54.020 would change the requirement from “five or more stories” to “with 
a top plate height of 55 feet or more.” From experience with past developments and feedback from communication 
experts, staff have determined that buildings of approximately 55 feet in height pose the greatest potential to interrupt 
public safety communication networks and systems. Therefore, the proposed height of 55 feet would ensure more exact 
clarity on city requirements for space and power for the installation of communications equipment. A 4-story building can 
have a top plate height of 55 feet or more and could trigger this requirement. This requirement would be applied to future 
development, and it would not be applied retroactively to existing buildings. The existing and proposed code language for 
this Section is provided in the table below, with the Proposed Ordinance as Attachment 1.
97 of 116

--- page 98 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Existing and Proposed Code Language – 23.54.020 – City Communications System
Existing – 23.54.020
Proposed – 23.54.020
All new buildings five or more stories in height shall 
provide a location on the building for installation of City 
radio communications equipment, including antennas and 
their supporting equipment. An electrical supply source 
shall be provided by the permittee at the 
antenna/equipment location, and reasonable access shall 
be provided by the permittee and/or building owner to 
City staff and/or City contractors for installation of 
necessary telephone lines and for purposes of installation, 
maintenance, adjustment and repair of the 
antenna/equipment. This access and location agreement 
shall be recorded in terms that convey the intent and 
meaning of this condition in the form approved by the City 
Attorney.
All new buildings with a top plate height of 55 feet or more 
shall provide a location on the building for installation of 
City radio communications equipment, including antennas 
and their supporting equipment. An electrical supply 
source shall be provided by the permittee at the 
antenna/equipment location, and reasonable access shall 
be provided by the permittee and/or building owner to 
City staff and/or City contractors for installation of 
necessary telephone lines and for purposes of installation, 
maintenance, adjustment and repair of the 
antenna/equipment. This access and location agreement 
shall be recorded in terms that convey the intent and 
meaning of this condition in the form approved by the City 
Attorney.
NEXT STEP:
An ordinance for second reading will be brought to the City Council for approval at a subsequent meeting should the City 
Council approve the introduction of the proposed ordinance. If the ordinance is adopted at a subsequent meeting, the 
ordinance would become effective 30 days after adoption.
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND COMMENTS:
An online community workshop focused on these amendments as well as other amendments being considered by the 
Police Department to the City’s Building Security Code was held on May 25, 2023. Notice of this community workshop was 
provided a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the workshop through the San Mateo Daily Journal, posting at various public 
facilities, the City’s website, and the Citywide eNewsletter. Four community members attended the workshop. Comments 
and questions raised during the workshop addressed general security design methods but not specifically on the subject 
amendment. Public comments received after the publication of this report will be forwarded to the City Council for 
consideration at the City Council meeting and will be posted to this item online as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no projected fiscal impact resulting from these amendments if adopted and would be absorbed by already funded 
staff time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance 
amendment is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential 
to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance amendment will 
not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance – Track Changes 
98 of 116

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matt Lethin, Captain
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
99 of 116

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Section 5.44.050 “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating Requirements,” and 
Amending Sections 23.54.005(b) “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent” and 23.54.020 “Building 
Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise Buildings”
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department, as an active member of the City of San Mateo’s Design 
Review Board, has identified areas of improvement in three San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Sections 
outlined in this resolution; and
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 5.44.050 “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating 
Requirements,” will more clearly communicate the requirements of the code due to changes in lighting 
technology by using lumens for measurement instead of watts; and
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 23.54.005(b) “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent” references an 
outdated principle of defensible space technologies, that will more clearly state the City of San Mateo’s 
commitment to maximizing public safety through safety technologies by [insert reason]; and 
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 23.54.020 “Building Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise 
Buildings,” currently lists the height limit which triggers the installation of communications infrastructure as five 
stories, without providing a definition for “story,” which has caused confusion for past development proposals 
and will be more clearly expressed as the specific height limit of 55 feet to trigger the requirement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Subsection (b) of Section 5.44.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(b) To apply Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design and safety technologies.
Section 2. Subsection (q) of Section 5.44.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(q) Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light of not less than 450 lumens shall be 
provided and shall be operating in each room or enclosure where massage services are being performed on 
clients, and in all areas where clients are present.
Section 3. Section 23.54.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
All new buildings with a top plate height of 55 feet or more shall provide a location on the building for 
installation of City radio communications equipment, including antennas and their supporting equipment. An 
electrical supply source shall be provided by the permittee at the antenna/equipment location, and reasonable 
access shall be provided by the permittee and/or building owner to City staff and/or City contractors for 
installation of necessary telephone lines and for purposes of installation, maintenance, adjustment and repair of 
the antenna/equipment. This access and location agreement shall be recorded in terms that convey the intent 
and meaning of this condition in the form approved by the City Attorney.
100 of 116

--- page 101 ---
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen 
with certainty that the ordinance adoption, will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 5.  Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here
101 of 116

--- page 102 ---
5.44.050 
OPERATING REQUIREMENTS. 
(q) Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light of not less than 40 watts450 
lumens shall be provided and shall be operating in each room or enclosure where massage services are 
being performed on clients, and in all areas where clients are present. 
23.54.005 PURPOSE AND INTENT. 
(b) To apply cCrime pPrevention tThrough eEnvironmental dDesign and Defensible Space 
Techniquessafety technologies . 
23.54.020 CITY COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS. 
All new buildings fivewith a top plate height of 55 feet or more stories in height shall provide a 
location on the building for installation of City radio communications equipment, including antennas and 
their supporting equipment. An electrical supply source shall be provided by the permittee at the 
antenna/equipment location, and reasonable access shall be provided by the permittee and/or building 
owner to City staff and/or City contractors for installation of necessary telephone lines and for purposes 
of installation, maintenance, adjustment and repair of the antenna/equipment. This access and location 
agreement shall be recorded in terms that convey the intent and meaning of this condition in the form 
approved by the City Attorney. 
 
102 of 116

--- page 103 ---
Business License and Regulations, and 
Building Security Code Amendments –
Ordinance Introduction
Ordinance Introduction
January 2, 2024
Matt Lethin, Captain
Brendan Bartholomew, Sergeant
Police Department
103 of 116

--- page 104 ---
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
2
• Potential improvements have been identified 
to update existing Municipal Codes to provide 
greater clarity and modernize expectations.
• Updates to the Municipal Code require Council 
approval.
104 of 116

--- page 105 ---
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
3
Massage Business Operating Requirements, related 
to lighting requirements
Reflect changes in lighting technology
Building Security Code, related to modern principles 
of public safety design.
Reflects industry best practices and existing staff 
approach
Building Security Code, related to public safety 
communications.
Provides greater clarity on building heights triggering 
communications requirements
105 of 116

--- page 106 ---
4
EXISTING CODE LANGUAGE
Minimum lighting consisting 
of at least one artificial light 
of not less than 40 watts 
shall be provided and shall 
be operating in each room 
or enclosure where massage 
services are being 
performed on clients, and in 
all areas where clients are 
present.
Existing Code 
Language Effects
Does not align with 
modern lighting 
technology 
standards
Focused on lighting 
output instead of 
outcome
Not best practice 
for energy 
sustainability
SMMC Section 5.44.050 
“Massage Operating 
Requirements”
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
106 of 116

--- page 107 ---
5
Existing Code 
Language
Requires 
separation of 
residential 
parking
Results in 
multiple security 
gates
Prevents mixed 
or shared parking
Proposed Code 
Language Effects
Reflects the 
market shift to 
lumens instead 
of watts
Outcome focused
Less energy 
required to 
achieve this 
result
PROPOSED CODE LANGUAGE
Minimum lighting consisting of 
at least one artificial light of 
not less than 450 lumens shall 
be provided and shall be 
operating in each room or 
enclosure where massage 
services are being performed 
on clients, and in all areas 
where clients are present.
SMMC Section 5.44.050 
“Massage Operating 
Requirements”
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
107 of 116

--- page 108 ---
6
EXISTING CODE LANGUAGE
To apply Crime Prevention 
Through Environmental 
Design and Defensible Space 
Techniques.
Existing Code 
Language Effects
Reflects an outdated 
approach to public safety 
design no longer considered 
best practice for the industry
Creates community 
expectations that do not 
align with City staff practices
Section 23.54.005(b) 
“Building Security Code 
– Purpose and Intent”
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
108 of 116

--- page 109 ---
7
Existing Code 
Language
Requires separation 
of residential 
parking
Results in multiple 
security gates
Prevents mixed or 
shared parking
Proposed Code 
Language Effects
Reflects the current 
approach of City 
staff
Reflects the industry 
best practice 
approach to public 
safety design
PROPOSED CODE LANGUAGE
To apply crime prevention 
through environmental 
design and safety 
technologies.
Section 23.54.005(b) 
“Building Security Code 
– Purpose and Intent”
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
109 of 116

--- page 110 ---
8
EXISTING CODE LANGUAGE
All new buildings five or more stories in 
height shall provide a location on the 
building for installation of City radio 
communications equipment, including 
antennas and their supporting equipment. 
An electrical supply source shall be provided 
by the permittee at the antenna/equipment 
location, and reasonable access shall be 
provided by the permittee and/or building 
owner to City staff and/or City contractors 
for installation of necessary telephone lines 
and for purposes of installation, 
maintenance, adjustment and repair of the 
antenna/equipment. This access and 
location agreement shall be recorded in 
terms that convey the intent and meaning of 
this condition in the form approved by the 
City Attorney.
Existing Code 
Language Effects
The current verbiage 
creates potential for 
confusion with an 
undefined term –
“story”
Has led to 
misunderstanding 
and frustration 
between City staff 
and developers
Creates potential for 
future buildings that 
may interfere with 
public-safety 
communications
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
SMMC Section 23.54.020 
“Building Security Code –
City Communications 
System – High Rise 
Buildings”
110 of 116

--- page 111 ---
9
Existing Code 
Language
Requires separation 
of residential parking
Results in multiple 
security gates
Prevents mixed or 
shared parking
Proposed Code 
Language Effects
Offers greater clarity 
on the code 
requirement
Ensures new 
development will not 
interfere with public 
safety communications
PROPOSED CODE LANGUAGE
All new buildings with a top plate height of 55 
feet or more shall provide a location on the 
building for installation of City radio 
communications equipment, including 
antennas and their supporting equipment. An 
electrical supply source shall be provided by 
the permittee at the antenna/equipment 
location, and reasonable access shall be 
provided by the permittee and/or building 
owner to City staff and/or City contractors for 
installation of necessary telephone lines and 
for purposes of installation, maintenance, 
adjustment and repair of the 
antenna/equipment. This access and location 
agreement shall be recorded in terms that 
convey the intent and meaning of this 
condition in the form approved by the City 
Attorney.
SMMC Section 23.54.020 
“Building Security Code –
City Communications 
System – High Rise 
Buildings”
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
111 of 116

--- page 112 ---
10
Community Meeting: May 25, 2023
• Provided overview of code amendment
• Discussed background, intent, and general requirements
• One comment supporting retention of Crime Prevention 
Through Environmental Design in addition to adding 
technology
• One comment supporting increased transparency
Public Comments
• TBD receiving comments after packet published
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
112 of 116

--- page 113 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Introduce an Ordinance to
1. Amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 5.44.050(q), “Business Licenses and 
Regulations - Massage Operating Requirements”
•
To change the lighting measurement to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements;
2. Amend Section 23.54.005, “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent,”
•
To remove reference to an antiquated design term, “Defensible Space Techniques;”
3. Amend Section 23.54.020, “Building Security Code – City Communications System – High 
Rise Buildings”
•
To more clearly define building heights that trigger requirements to maintain essential public safety 
communication networks.
113 of 116

--- page 114 ---
Thank You
Matt Lethin, Captain
Brendan Bartholomew, Sergeant
Police Department
114 of 116

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-8307
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 02, 2024 
SUBJECT:
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide direction on the 2024 appointments to external agencies, organizations and liaison roles; consider and 
approve a change to the continuity designation for Planning Commission and approve the final appointments and liaison 
list.
BACKGROUND:
On Monday December 11, 2023 the City Clerk sent out a poll to each Council Member soliciting their responses, to the 
Clerk only, for priority interest in various regional and local available appointments. Council Members returned the poll 
individually to the Clerk. The Clerk then combined the interests of all Council Members into a single document and shared 
it with the Mayor and City Manager. The Mayor reviewed the list for balance and will present her recommendations for 
assignments along with her proposal to remove the Planning Commission Liaison role as a continuity designation and 
instead consider it as one of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor assignments each year. This is due to the commission’s high 
profile as the second highest decision making body for the City. The Council will have an opportunity to discuss and 
balance appointments, if needed. It is desired that the list be approved at this meeting.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointment review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Liaisons List
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
115 of 116

--- page 116 ---
San Mateo Council Appointments - 2024
Body
Alt
Appt'd By
Type of Appointment
2023
2024
Nash - P
Nash - A
Newsom - P
Newsom - A
Hedges - P
Hedges - A
Loraine - P
Loraine - A
Lee - P
Lee - A
External Agencies Board Member Appointments
1
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) - General Assembly
Council
External Agency
Hedges
Hedges
 Lee (alt)
1
1
2
City/County Association of Governments  (C/CAG) & Alternate
Y
Council
External Agency
Hedges
Nash (alt)
Hedges
Nash (alt)
1
1
3
Emergency Services Council 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
1
1
4
Grand Boulevard Task Force 
Y
Council
External Standing Comm
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
1
1
5
Housing Our People Effectively (HOPE) Interagency Council – Leadership
Committee
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Nash (alt)
Loraine
Lee (alt)
1
1
6
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) 
Y
Council
External Agency
Lee
Lorraine (alt)
Loraine
Lee (alt)
1
1
7
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance - Commute.org (Alternate)
Y
Council 
External Agency
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
1
1
8
SF Airport Community Roundtable 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Nash (alt)
Newsom
Nash (alt)
1
1
9
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (JPA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
1
1
10 San Mateo County Council of Cities  (Mayor & Alternate)
Y
Council
External Agency
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
1
1
11 San Mateo County Pre-Hospital Emergency Medical Services Group 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
1
1
12 San Mateo Foster City Public Financing Authority
Council
Internal Agency
Hedges
Hedges
1
13 South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
1
1
External Agencies Committee Appointments
14 ABAG Regional Planning Committee - (ABAG-RPC) - through 6/30/24
COC
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
1
15 Congestion Management and Environmental Quality Committee (CMEQ)
C/CAG
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
1
16 Member Agency Committee (MAC) for HEART - Annual Meeting
Council
External Committee
Lee
Hedges
Lee
1
17 Housing and Community Development Committee 
COC
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
1
Internal Committees
18 City Council Audit & Budget Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
1
1
19 City Council Legislative Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
1
1
20 Council of Cities - City Selection Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
1
1
External Liaison
21 City Delegate to Assembly Member Papan 
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
1
22 City Delegate to Congressman Mullin 
Council
External Liaison
Lee
Lee
1
23 City Delegate to Senator Becker
Council
External Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
1
24 City Delegate to Board of Supervisor Corzo
Council
External Liaison
Loraine
Lee
1
25 Local Policy Makers Group (LPMG) 
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Loraine (alt)
Hedges
Nash (alt)
1
1
26 San Mateo Chamber of Commerce & Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Lee (alt)
Hedges
Lee (alt)
1
1
27 San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA)
Council
External Liaison
Nash
Hedges (alt)
Nash
Hedges (alt)
1
1
28 San Mateo-Foster City Elementary School Board and San Mateo Union High
School District Board
Council
External Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
1
Internal Liaison
29 Civic Arts Committee (CAC)
Internal Liaison
Nash
Lee
1
30 Community Relations Commission (CRC) 
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
1
31 Library Board
Internal Liaison
Nash
Nash
1
32 Measure S Oversight Committee
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
1
33 Park and Recreation Commission
Internal Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
1
34 Personnel Board
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
1
35 Planning Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Lee
Nash (alt)
Nash
Newsom (alt)
1
1
36 Senior Citizens Commission
Internal Liaison
Nash
Lee
1
37 Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
1
1
38 Youth Activities Council
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
1
Nash
Newsom
Hedges
Loraine
Lee
Continuity Assignments (8) - Proposed
7
3
11
2
11
5
7
0
5
7
Proposed to be Mayor and Deputy Mayor category instead of Continuity
10
13
16
7
12
Continuity
0
3
2
3
0
116 of 116