Ring calls off partnership with police surveillance provider Flock Safety Latest News AI Apps Computing Mobile Social Media EVs & Transportation Reviews Smartphones Laptops & PCs Gaming Headphones Wearables Photography Tablets Home Buying Guides Laptops Headphones Smart Home Gaming Best Gaming Handhelds Best E-Ink Tablets Best Power Banks Best Fast Chargers Best Live TV Streaming Best Wireless Earbuds Gaming Nintendo PC PlayStation Xbox Big Tech Amazon Apple Google Meta Microsoft Samsung Entertainment TV & Movies Streaming Cybersecurity VPN Wearables Tomorrow Science Space Robotics Newsletter About Editorial Policies Reviews Policy Podcast Archive Privacy Policy Terms of Use © 2026 Static Media . All Rights Reserved Ring calls off partnership with police surveillance provider Flock Safety Latest News AI Apps Computing Mobile Social Media EVs & Transportation Reviews Smartphones Laptops & PCs Gaming Headphones Wearables Photography Tablets Home Buying Guides Laptops Headphones Smart Home Gaming Best Gaming Handhelds Best E-Ink Tablets Best Power Banks Best Fast Chargers Best Live TV Streaming Best Wireless Earbuds Gaming Nintendo PC PlayStation Xbox Big Tech Amazon Apple Google Meta Microsoft Samsung Entertainment TV & Movies Streaming Cybersecurity VPN Wearables Tomorrow Science Space Robotics Newsletter Reviews Home Ring calls off partnership with police surveillance provider Flock Safety The company said the partnership would require more resources than anticipated. By Mariella Moon Feb. 12, 2026 10:17 pm EST Ring Ring has canceled its partnership with Flock Safety, after receiving backlash for running a Super Bowl ad touting its Search Party feature. If you'll recall, Ring revealed back in October 2025 that it was entering a partnership with the surveillance company, which would make it possible for law enforcement to ask smart doorbell owners for videos captured by their devices. In its announcement , the company said that the "planned Flock Safety integration would require significantly more time and resources than anticipated." The decision to call off the partnership was mutual, Ring added, and Flock Safety's integration was never launched. Apparently, no Ring customer footage was ever sent to Flock. Under the partnership, law enforcement agencies using Flock's Nova platform or FlockOS would have been able to use Ring's Community Requests to ask for doorbell videos from users. They would have been asked to specify the location and timeframe of the incident, as well as provide a unique investigation code and the details about what is being investigated. Their requests would then be forwarded to relevant users, who could choose to share footage from their doorbell. Ring said the whole process would have been anonymous and optional. Ring was known to have shared security cam videos to law enforcement without a court order or the device owner's consent at least 11 times in the past. In 2024, however, it seemed to have walked back its police-friendly stance and said that it would stop sharing videos with the police without a warrant. This alliance with Flock would have marked a return to police collaboration after the company distanced itself from law enforcement. Flock is known for its automatic license plate readers and for centralizing the information it collects into a database that police can search without a warrant. While law enforcement says the system can help them solve crimes like kidnapping. 404Media reported last year that ICE has been using the database, citing immigration-related reasons. While Ring's official reason was that the Flock partnership would need more resources than expected, it's worth noting that the company recently got flak for its Super Bowl Search Party ad. Ring touted it as a way to find lost dogs by using its cameras' AI to identify pets running across their field of vision and then pooling feeds together to identify missing pets. While Search Party isn't new and was announced last year, the ad sparked concerns about surveillance and how the tech could be misused, leading users to disable the feature for their cameras altogether. Recommended