--- page 1 ---
Reviews
Home
Ring calls off partnership with police
surveillance provider Flock Safety
The company said the partnership would require more resources than
anticipated.
by Mariella Moon
Ring has canceled its partnership with Flock Safety, after receiving backlash for
running a Super Bowl ad touting its Search Party feature. If you'll recall, Ring
revealed back in October 2025 that it was 
 with the
• Feb. 12, 2026 10:17 pm EST
Ring
Ring
entering a partnership

--- page 2 ---
surveillance company, which would make it possible for law enforcement to ask
smart doorbell owners for videos captured by their devices. In its 
, the
company said that the "planned Flock Safety integration would require significantly
more time and resources than anticipated." The decision to call off the partnership
was mutual, Ring added, and Flock Safety's integration was never launched.
Apparently, no Ring customer footage was ever sent to Flock.
Under the partnership, law enforcement agencies using Flock's Nova platform or
FlockOS would have been able to use Ring's Community Requests to ask for doorbell
videos from users. They would have been asked to specify the location and timeframe
of the incident, as well as provide a unique investigation code and the details about
what is being investigated. Their requests would then be forwarded to relevant users,
who could choose to share footage from their doorbell. Ring said the whole process
would have been anonymous and optional.
Ring was known to have 
 to law enforcement without a
court order or the device owner's consent at least 11 times in the past. In 2024,
however, it seemed to have 
 its police-friendly stance and said that it
would stop sharing videos with the police without a warrant. This alliance with Flock
would have marked a return to police collaboration after the company distanced
itself from law enforcement. Flock is known for its automatic license plate readers
and for centralizing the information it collects into a database that police can search
without a warrant. While law enforcement says the system can help them solve
crimes like kidnapping. 
 reported last year that ICE has been using the
database, citing immigration-related reasons.
While Ring's official reason was that the Flock partnership would need more
resources than expected, it's worth noting that the company recently got flak for its
Super Bowl Search Party ad. Ring touted it as a way to find lost dogs by using its
cameras' AI to identify pets running across their field of vision and then pooling feeds
together to identify missing pets. While Search Party isn't new and was announced
last year, the ad sparked concerns about surveillance and how the tech could be
misused, leading users to 
 the feature for their cameras altogether.
announcement
shared security cam videos
walked back
404Media
disable

--- page 3 ---
engadget

Recommended
