source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4f5241b62ab1daedd224d37b6c7c1c6cec1351f669a6ec9c99c7cd13257ed70d
pages: 9
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
September 9, 2020
7:00 PM
Remote Meeting
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 9, 2020 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID:
899 6619 1094
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of July 8, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects FY 20-21 Q1 Update and Active Transportation Program Grant - Letter of Support
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive the 2020-21 1st Quarter update on bicycle and pedestrian projects, and approve a letter of
support to the California Transportation Commission for the Active Transportation Program Cycle 5 grant
application and authorize the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the Commission.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 9

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 9

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 20-3559
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 09, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of July 8, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the July 8, 2020 meeting
3 of 9

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
July 8, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
MINUTES 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, and Commissioners Reyes and Robbins 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
Motion by Commissioner Reyes to approve the June 10, 2020 minutes, seconded by Commissioner Robbins.  
Motion carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:  4 – Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, and Commissioners Reyes and Robbins 
 
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to 
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be 
referred to staff for further review. 
Letter submitted as public record from Diana Pettit regarding potential changes to the Heritage Tree Ordinance 
and the Mid-Pen Housing project downtown.  Letter was also forwarded to Parks and Recreation Department. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
  
2. Safe Streets Initiative Implementation 
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer, presented the report and asked the Commissioners to receive information on 
the Safe Streets Initiate Implementation. 
 
Public Comment:  
Adam Lorraine and Alan Mattlage (via Adam Loraine, as could not access YouTube) spoke to the item. 
 
No motion needed for this informational report. 
 
  
4 of 9

--- page 5 ---
3. 2019 Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association (TMA) Annual Report 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner and Paul Krupka of Krupka Consulting, presented an 
update on the 2019 Rail Corridor TMA Annual Report and asked the Commission to make a motion to 
recommend City Council acceptance of the report. 
 
Public Comment: 
Adam Loraine and John Ford, from Commute.Org, spoke to the item. 
 
Motion by Commissioner Robbins to recommend City Council acceptance of the report, seconded by 
Commissioner Reyes.  The motion carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:  4 – Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, and Commissioners Robbins and Reyes. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Director Underwood summarized future agenda items; there are no agenda items for August so that meeting 
will be cancelled; the Bicycle/Pedestrian Master Plans Update and Storm Water Activity Funding Analysis are 
scheduled for September.  
 
Chair Rowinski inquired on status of Sugarloaf Traffic Action Plan and the Public Works Citywide Maintenance 
Plan as future agenda items.  Director Underwood stated that due to COVID-19 it has been difficult to schedule 
community meetings, but staff is looking into generating Zoom meetings between the two communities.  The 
Citywide Maintenance Plan may be an agenda item in early Fall.  
  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding 
each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be 
available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to 
participate in this meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the 
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
 
 
 
5 of 9

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-3537
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 09, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects FY 20-21 Q1 Update and Active Transportation Program Grant - Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, to receive the 2020-21 1st Quarter update on bicycle and pedestrian projects, and approve a letter of support 
to the California Transportation Commission for the Active Transportation Program Cycle 5 grant application and authorize 
the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the Commission.
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects, grant efforts, and an upcoming grant 
application as detailed below.
Infrastructure Projects

North San Mateo Drive Complete Streets: This project, identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, consists of 
implementation of a road diet that converts the existing four-lane roadway to two-lanes with center turn lane and 
bicycle lanes from Poplar Avenue to Peninsula Avenue. The project will also install bike lanes between Poplar and 
Catalpa and includes one mile of bike lanes and bicycle boulevard, green infrastructure, pedestrian countdown signals, 
and curb extensions. Construction began during early August and is scheduled to be complete during Spring 2021. 

28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard: Planned for installation between Mason Lane and El Camino Real, the 28th Avenue 
Bicycle Boulevard will be the City’s first bicycle boulevard completed from the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. The project 
has been designed with robust community engagement and includes a curb extension at Hacienda Street, speed 
cushions, a speed table (elevated crosswalk), on-street pavement markings, and wayfinding signage with destination 
detail. The project was issued for bid on July 30, 2020, and staff expects to award the contract during September 2020. 
Construction is anticipated to begin during November, with a 10-week timeframe for completion. 

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program: The City receives federal funding for the CDBG program and 
allocates the funds based on community priorities. The most recent project completed with these funds focused on 
pedestrian safety in North Central and included Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) and a curb extension at 
Poplar/Claremont, Eldorado/Santa Inez, and Eldorado/Monte Diablo; high visibility crosswalks at Fremont/Santa Inez; 
and curb extensions at Humboldt/Indian. This work was completed in Spring 2020. 
Staff are currently evaluating options for current CDBG funding and are planning to utilize the funds to implement the 
Class II and bicycle boulevard facilities identified in the Bicycle Master Plan on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue 
to 5th Avenue. This project is the second highest priority project in the plan and will provide north-south connectivity 
for North Central residents that is currently lacking. 
6 of 9

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Bicycle Parking: During 2020, City staff have installed more than 50 new bicycle racks at City facilities, parks, and in the 
Downtown. More recently, City staff has conducted field work to install additional bicycle parking along North B Street 
north of 1st Avenue in an area lacking in these amenities. Staff identified five potential locations to install seven new 
bike racks. Staff are currently conducting outreach with the businesses on North B Street to gauge support for the 
project before moving forward with installation. Additionally, staff are evaluating the potential of utilizing on-street 
areas with existing red curb markings for additional bicycle parking options per industry best practices.

Additional Pedestrian Improvements.  The following pedestrian improvements have been implemented since the last 
presentation to the SI Commission:
o
Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) installed at Ellsworth/Poplar.
o
31st Ave. Traffic Calming and Pedestrian Safety Improvement: Staff installed speed cushions on 31st Avenue 
between Fernwood Street and Edison Street, and added ADA accessible curb ramps, high visibility crosswalks, and 
RRFBs to access the East and West Hillsdale parks. 
Grant Efforts

Caltrans Sustainable Communities Grant: City staff applied for grant funding through the Caltrans Sustainable 
Communities grant program to fund the proposed San Mateo Complete Streets Plan. Through this effort staff 
proposed to develop a document combining several existing, separate plans to fully envision a multimodal 
transportation network for the City in conjunction with the current General Plan 2040 update. The comprehensive 
Complete Streets Plan would build on the vision of the upcoming General Plan to identify projects, design 
standards, and streetscape concepts to accommodate all modes on the roadway network, and to support active 
transportation modes from the ground up. While the grant application was not selected for funding this cycle, staff 
intends to revise and update the application and apply in the next grant cycle expected to be announced in Fall 
2020. 

C/CAG Transportation Development Act (TDA) Article 3: The City was recently awarded a TDA Article 3 grant for 
the proposed Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan and intends to evaluate the pedestrian 
environment within a half-mile radius of the City’s high-quality transit areas. The Plan will identify necessary 
improvements to create a safe and comfortable pedestrian path of travel within those areas. Staff expects to begin 
the Request for Proposals process for that project shortly to select a consultant team for the effort.

Active Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5: Staff has prepared and submitted a grant application under the ATP 
Cycle 5 ‘Quick-Build project’ category for design and construction of the Rapid Implementation Network in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. Additionally, staff is now drafting a grant application for the Delaware Street Safe Routes 
to School bicycle project. If awarded, the grant will be used for the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane 
and Class III bicycle boulevard as planned in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project will provide necessary 
safety improvements along this roadway in an area with a high level of traffic stress and history of collisions. This 
project is primarily focused on improving safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from Delaware 
Street, and to connect neighborhoods directly to schools they attend. Further, this project will provide strong 
connectivity to the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from the north and south. As part of the grant 
application, letters of support are strongly encouraged. The grant amount to be requested for the project is 
approximately $1.5 million. 
Staff requests the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City's Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Advisory Committee (BPAC), consider the letter of support for the ATP grant application, and authorize the Chair 
to sign the letter on their behalf.

San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5: The TA has recently 
announced a call for projects for the Pedestrian and Bicycle Program. Staff are evaluating eligible projects in the 
small infrastructure (maximum $1 million) category and will include additional detail regarding the project 
selection in the staff presentation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with hearing the quarterly update or for submitting a letter supporting the grant 
application. 
7 of 9

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update and request for approval of the letter of support is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Letter of Support
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
8 of 9

--- page 9 ---
September 4, 2020
Mitch Weiss
California Transportation Commission
1120 N Street, MS-52
P.O. Box 942873
Sacramento, CA 95814
RE:
Support for City of San Mateo Active Transportation Program Request for Funding 
the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Bicycle Project
Dear Mr. Weiss,
On behalf of City of San Mateo’s Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the 
City’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC), I am pleased to write this letter in 
strong support of the City of San Mateo’s Active Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 grant 
application. The City is seeking grant funding to support the design and construction of bicycle 
facilities on Delaware Street to upgrade the existing facilities to more safely, comfortably, and 
easily connect students and their families to their local schools. If approved, this funding will 
help to implement a new Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard to provide 
critical connectivity and safety improvements to access two of our local public schools.
We fully support this project to increase safety, enhance public health, and maintain a high 
quality of life for the San Mateo community. The City of San Mateo City Council has a strong 
desire to develop a convenient, comfortable, and safe bike network that connects San Mateo’s 
neighborhoods, transit, schools, and parks. This project will serve as a foundation for 
implementing the proposed bicycle network in the San Mateo 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, adopted 
April 2020, and will help the City achieve the goals and objectives outlined in the City’s General 
Plan, Climate Action Plan, and Sustainable Streets Plan by supporting Safe Routes to School.
Given the effort of the City and region to encourage multimodal transportation in support of 
shared environmental goals, we believe this project is an important step forward in building a 
safe and equitable bicycle network throughout the City, and providing our young residents a safe 
option for commuting to their schools. Toward this end, the BPAC strongly supports the City of 
San Mateo’s grant application for this work.
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Sincerely,
Susan Rowinski
Chair
9 of 9