Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Charlottesville VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu May 07 2026

OVERVIEW

The Charlottesville Virginia Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. The Charlottesville Police Department utilizes retro-active search functions and pro-active alerts to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, The Charlottesville Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted individuals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Charlottesville VA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

7 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

2

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

0

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

Data Unavailable

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0
ADDITIONAL INFO

License Plate Reader Policy

https://charlottesville.gov/1823/Flock-Safety-Program-Automated-License-P

Flock Safety Contract

https://charlottesville.gov/1823/Flock-Safety-Program-Automated-License-P

Recent Success Stories

1. A stolen vehicle from our jurisdiction was alerted on our cameras several times after being stolen. It then went to a neighboring jurisdiction with Flock cameras and was alerted on theirs. The officer responded and found the vehicle occupied. The vehicle attempted to flee and rammed the patrol car and was taken into custody on scene.

2. Out of jurisdiction, stolen vehicle alerted on our cameras. Officers were able to pinpoint where the vehicle was alerting, recover the vehicle unoccupied, and recover evidence from inside the vehicle.

3. Out of jurisdiction stolen vehicle was alerted on our N Emmet St. Officers in the area located the vehicle, and a pursuit was initiated. The vehicle was later recovered unoccupied, and evidence was recovered.

4. Out of jurisdiction individual wanted for homicide alerted on our N Emmet St camera. Based on this alert, we notified that jurisdiction that the vehicle was likely headed back in their direction. Their officers were able to stop the vehicle as it crossed their county line. The subject was taken into custody shortly after.

5. The suspect vehicle involved in a shooting within our jurisdiction was identified on the Flock system. Based on this information, the driver was identified and ultimately charged with the incident when confronted with the Flock results.

Provided by Flock Safety